ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e9025	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. ....................................................................................................................... Ladies and gentlemen! I wish you a good morning and open the 91. Meeting of the National Council. [[09:06:29]] Meeting of the 2015/2016 ordinary meeting
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e9050	The President of the Federal Republic of Germany, with a resolution of 1 January 1988. In accordance with Article 28(1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013, the Commission shall adopt implementing acts in accordance with Article 28(2) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. 1 of the Federal Constitutional Act the National Council for the 8th. September 2015 at the 2015/2016 regular meeting of XXV. This is the first time we have been able to reach agreement on this subject. The Official Protocol of 89. The meeting, together with the unreaded parts of the official protocol of the 90. Meeting of 1. In September 2015, the European Parliament's Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. As prevented, MEPs are reported Dr. Huainigg, jewelry beater, Mag. Schrangl, Dr. Winter and Dr. Lichtenecker. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e9079	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following statement: The Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management Dipl.-Ing. Andrä Rupprechter is represented by the Federal Minister for Families and Youth Dr. Sophie Karmasin. [[09:07:36]] Angelobung
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e9112	As in the 89th century. A meeting was announced by the Federal Electoral Authority that Mr Mag. Hubert Kuzdas waived his mandate. Mr Hannes Fazekas was appointed to the National Council in his place. Since the election permit is already in place and the person mentioned is present in the house, I will immediately make his fishing observation. After reading the vow formula by writing, the new representative will have to do his fishing with the words “I promise”. I am now seeking the author, Mr Zanger, to read the vow formula.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e9156	“They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your obligations.”
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e9177	I promise.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e9198	Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you very warmly in our midst. I announce that this meeting will be broadcast live from ORF 2 to 1 p.m. and from ORF III. [[09:09:06]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e9225	This brings us – after a comprehensive welcome from the new Member – to the current hour on the subject: “School Start – Innovative Ways for Increased Equal Opportunities” First of all, Mrs Mag. Grossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e9252	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Now in September, about 1.1 million students start a new school year. For 81,000 it is even the first year of school. On the other hand, 115 200 teachers are teachers; 1,600 young teachers overcompensate the 1,000 teachers who have retired this year. From this you see that the proportion of teachers/teachers to pupils in Austria is excellent – and this is also in international comparison. This is also extremely important because teaching is more demanding than ever. Today, the system school is inextricably much required. Today, the school is not only responsible for providing knowledge. No, no, no, It is also particularly important for the development of personality, for the dissemination of key competences, problem-solving skills and social learning. Above all, the rules of a peaceful relationship are taught very well by our teachers. I would like to start by thanking our active educators very much. [[He welcomed SPÖ and ÖVP, as well as members of FPÖ and NEOS.]] More and more children are spending more and more time in school. That's good, too, so that they won't be left to the TV, the PlayStation or themselves in the afternoon. The life forms of the people have changed. The work of both parents has become a norm. Of course, the school system must also take this into account. This claim will also be fulfilled even better this year by further expanding the range of school forms throughout the day. With the help of the municipalities and the countries, we are able to provide a much larger number of all day schools. Here, of course, the work of conviction was very difficult. But we have succeeded in doing persuasion work, even though we must not lose sight of the goal of a genuine school in a restricted form, at least for those who want it. In a full-day school form, it is now also possible to make the daily movement unit a reality, for example, by allowing clubs and qualified trainers to work directly in the school and thus it does not depend on the place of residence or the wallet of the parents whether a child can learn a sport or not. And the school without a school bag will become more and more reality in this school form, because the homework can be done in the school. The New Secondary School, launched in 2007, now finds a comprehensive implementation. This makes it better to support the children individually, especially in the team teaching, whereby teachers, who are also provided by the federal government from this school year onward, can also be used specifically for school autonomous needs, so that an even greater need is achieved here. One must not remain unmentioned: We must not forget our disabled children who also have a right to equal participation and the best possible promotion. For this purpose, in the inclusive model regions in the federal states of Styria, Carinthia and Tyrol, the ideal conditions are created with this model of inclusive pedagogy in order to also serve as an example for the whole of Austria. I am seeking to prepare the mood accordingly so that we can reach surface coverage in this respect too. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The following must be said quite clearly: The school is a place where performance is required and also needs to be required. [[Congratulation of the Abg. ==References====External links==]] There comes the applause from this side. But I hope everyone is behind this principle of performance. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Obviously not!]] It is up to us young people to stand in international competition in the future and, of course, to be able to bear our economy and society. Therefore, it is even more important to meet comparable performance standards, even if some of them seem uncomfortable and annoying, but it is incredibly important. The standardized maturity test, says Central Matura, now comes comprehensively, including in the higher education schools. Extensive test procedures are carried out in the field of German knowledge. In general, the education standards give us valuable conclusions about the performance of the pupils, but also the teachers and, of course, the whole system, so that we can adapt if necessary. But it must not be put under the table that in recent years the education system has really developed in a comprehensive way towards equal opportunities, if you think only of the compulsory kindergarten year, where, of course, the city of Vienna is regarded as an example with the comprehensive free kindergarten. The dedicated expansion of kindergartens, quantitatively and qualitatively, but also teaching with matura, language promotion, the new educational training, the free repetition of educational qualifications, these are very important steps towards equal opportunities, which must also be put into action in the future, even if the budget situation is still so challenging. These important elements must not be forgotten in our education system. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! A major challenge, however, which is being dealt with perfectly – and since it is important to thank all those involved – is the schooling and integration of some 5,800 new refugee children, who have now joined them. This corresponds to about 0.74 percent of all dependent children. These children, of course, are subject to compulsory schooling and also to school law, so that, depending on their right to stay, they can also find themselves in society in the future and form society constructively. Ladies and gentlemen! But it is also important for me to express here that families with children should come out of the mass quarters. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Children do not belong to mass quarters. Children belong to family units, because there is probably the best way to integrate them. At this point, I would like to thank all the volunteers in Austria very much for their services for the refugees, but of course also for the needy Austrians. That's what makes me especially proud as an Austrian. – Thank you very much and all the good for the coming year that we will successfully spend together!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e9328	Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, Federal Minister for Education and Women, spoke in favour of an introductory opinion. Your speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e9349	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, It has already been said: The start of school has passed well. Now, at 9.15 p.m., probably the first hour is over. Perhaps some schools no longer have the school bell that sounds, but they work in a project, in a group or alone. Maybe some are in the school garden. Perhaps some are dealing with the beginning of the autumn. Perhaps some learn story with the smartphone, as I recently experienced in a new middle school on a visit, or sit on the computer. I think I can say that if we remember our own schooling and now think of the school situation of our children, perhaps also grandchildren, then there has been much change in Austria. Several have already been suggested and discussed by my colleague, Sissi Grossmann, for example, this year's innovations. The school start 2015/16 is very different for some children. Let us remember that the first day of school is something very special – especially for the school beginners. There were certainly children with huge school bags, there were children with smaller school bags, and there were also children who perhaps only wore the garment that they had on their body, and who had no sweets, no school bags. As constructively-critical as you will probably be – and I welcome that too, because I also see the need for optimization in the Austrian school system; if everything were all right, we would not have to deal with proposals for improvement, that would be the optimum, that is clear – but one thing is certain: All children are welcome in the Austrian school system. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Greens.]] All children are welcome, because I don't think we can imagine what a surprise it means for some children to feel a welcome feeling in a class for the first time after months of flight, to find themselves in an association of equal ages and to experience security, a good framework and security there for the first time. And precisely in this welcome culture, it is important that we can also ensure what we need in addition to the Austrian education system now – and precisely now due to the figures – now. I would also like to highlight at this point the outstanding job, the work, the commitment of all teachers, because this start of school, ladies and gentlemen, has been quiet, orderly and secure for all, and, of course, the educators contribute a great deal to this. But it is not all without preparatory work and automatically, and therefore, of course, we started to prepare for the situation before the summer, with all nine federal states, with the Presidents of the State School Councils and the Council of Town Schools, so that all children are welcome and every child also gets what it needs. We have, of course, held conferences with the institutions of school supervision on what is especially needed now, so this school start has been so quiet and well over the stage. And if we look at the nearly 6,000 children who are in addition to the system – some have already joined the school year before, some are now coming to it again – and look at it and put it around, that's exactly one child per school, symbolically reckoned. There are not even 1 percent more children in our schools, and that this is feasible, it probably does not question anyone of you or anyone else. And yet, I think it is important to say what it now needs to be supported by the educators. Let me say in this regard that I am very glad that the Federal Government is providing an integration stop, i.e. fresh money, to ensure support for schools, so that new ways can also be taken. I would like to briefly explain to you two projects that will come from my department. On the one hand, we need mobile intercultural teams in the federal states that act very flexibly. In this regard, there are already many requests from school psychologists or free psychologists, from school social workers, free social workers, from people with relevant experiences and trainings who want to work there. And precisely in this flexibility – what does any region need?, because in a school perhaps 35 refugee children come at once, in another only three, and there will need different answers – lies the strength. This project is now being designed in good cooperation with Austrian school psychology, which can be very mobile and very flexible and can now also be used accordingly for these mobile support teams. This is not only about support in the school itself, it is also about language barriers that have to be overcome towards the parents. This is also about how to prepare a parent evening, so that the parents of the children who do not yet control our language trust themselves to get there, that they also have the certainty that they will be understood first and that there will be no communication problems, because the majority of those who fail to interact with people often happen because they are not understood. That's exactly what these teams are supposed to do. Perhaps these teams even go into the families, where the people who have fled here live. In addition, I believe that our first reception centres should have a bridge function as regards the training of children, but should not be a permanent solution, because I believe it is important that children have a permanent place to stay, that they need a sheltered environment, and that cannot be done if you are in a first room too long. There you can offer maximum language acquisition, but you can't install a school. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That is why I find it really remarkable which paths are being taken in the individual federal states as a whole. I take an example: the ‘New in Vienna courses’. Every child has a class, has an environment, has a group of equal ages, where it feels at home, but it is important to take children out of them and that they have what we have in cultural techniques, what we generally live between men and women, how we deal with each other, boys and girls, also what different religions there are, that exactly these children are also brought closer to the language. Children suck up everything like sponges, because children want to learn. Children learn at a speed that we adults cannot imagine. For example, in these welcome courses in Vienna, and this is a very positive example that children are taken out of class for up to 11 hours or, if necessary, even longer. In addition, however, common times are also lived. Why not turn one another, why not make one another artistic education, work together? Because, of course, the best language promoters are their own students, because children learn by looking down, by example, and not when they are so to speak separated in a group. Therefore, this mixed form, which is already installed and lived in all the federal states, is the best variant. In the same way, we have to think about that section, ladies and gentlemen, if the children are no longer in school, 15 years plus. This is equally important if young people may want to establish their food point here in Austria because they have indicated Austria as a destination country because they want to live here because they want to build a existence here. We cannot imagine what these unaccompanied minor refugees, boys and girls, as well as more boys than girls, have done until they get here until they land here. It is precisely this group that we also need to make a special contribution. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nice.]] We can offer language promotion courses through the adult education initiative, but there are also good ideas, such as the Vienna-Colleg, where vocational schools work with the AMS to teach basic and cultural techniques to these unaccompanied minor refugees, so that they can take the next step and not lose time. I think nothing is worse, as well as just a minute to miss a second where we also give these children and young people our language and our culture, and therefore these examples are exemplary and exemplary for all the others who follow similar paths and where we can be very proud that in our education system these areas are well handled. [[Abg. Beautiful: Close your eyes before reality!]] But not only that, ladies and gentlemen, is important. I believe that it is also important to point out that we have taken completely new ways in terms of content – although not new ways compared to other European countries or OECD countries around the world –: It is true that for the first time this year all, really all 45 000 maturants of a standardized, comparable exam – a very important exam, namely the Matura – will undergo this, in a new three-partity, which will, of course, bring relief for the students. One presents himself in a pre-scientific work, oral and written, or in a diploma thesis, and one makes a written statement which is the same for all in Austria. Why is that so important? – On the one hand, for the study later so that universities, colleges or universities generally receive comparable young people in the services, and on the other hand, it is important for our young people, and this was probably not going on and on at our youth age, to make semesters abroad or to gather professional experience abroad. It is also important to be comparable. The third part of the Matura is the oral exam, where you can choose your focus and present yourself there again. For 45 000 young people, this is a new way that I believe it will bring relief and not taxation without giving up performance, which is very important. We have introduced what many have already done in Austria, and I believe that after many unknowing calls of the past, the first step through the new Matura, which was no longer at all, has worked well and this Matura is now well prepared for all young people. Finally, I would also like to speak to the group of 10 to 14-year-olds, and I do not make any secret that I would like all 10 to 14-year-olds to be promoted and demanded differently inwardly according to gifts and weaknesses. This is perhaps a way we still have to go, which is not yet a reality, but there are still new, good concepts with the children for the children. The New Secondary School is a school that takes every child, does not exclude any child and tries to make the children fit with new possibilities and ways – either for teaching or for an upper level, for their personal, individual way. And let's leave the church in the village! So constructively-critically that will now also be by the opposition parties – that is also good, we want to make a school reform that brings less administration and more content; I am very grateful for every criticism that is constructive and will also take it with me – but I ask you, we do not make politics on the back of the children today, because for all children in this country we only want the best!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e9414	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister. We are now going into the debate. I draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of all other participants at the current hour according to § 97a Abs. 6 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 5 minutes. The first speaker is Mr Mayer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e9444	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, it is noted that the school year has begun again with the start of school, and I am pleased that the educational debates about the future of our school, also here in the House. I believe that both the Minister and our spokesperson of education have been very competent and very detailed on the new challenges, even though I am thinking about the topics of children with non-German native languages and asylumists coming to us. And no matter what action we take, it also applies to these new challenges: The child must be at the centre! I would like to use my speech today to address one of the main causes which the Minister has also suggested and which I know is also the central challenge of the current discussions, namely: How can we start school, how can we start school, how can we improve early education? – Because we can turn it and turn it around as we want, the main challenge is educational early promotion. We talked about how different children start. I can say this from my own practice as a teacher, but also as a school principal at a folk school, in the meantime also as a person with grandchildren, with whom I am allowed to experience or experience, as it develops, and also through my wife, who is the headmaster of the school, who is now also behind the school entrance phase: It is questionable and increasingly terrifying how much the difference in development is increasing, not only among the very talented, that is, the children who are well developed, well promoted and well prepared, but also among those who do not have this, who have great deficits. And that's this backpack, as I always describe, that the children take from different areas, which our school system has not been able to reduce in compulsory school years. This three-year development difference in the area of concentration, language/speech, motors, cognitive thinking can best be shown – that is why I always like to show this picture –, it is best to see to everyone who has to deal with the problem every day, so it is best to see drawings, but this also applies to the language, which is true in the case of concentration and elsewhere. If you have children with school maturity at school, i.e. children who are intended to attend the school age, then this is an average good drawing if you tell a child to draw a man or a woman and decorate it. [[the speaker shall hold an enlarged copy of a child drawing in height]] That is what you can expect – as I said, this is just a graphic expression for many other areas of development. And an same old child, it is even a month older, drawing this picture – with the same theme, drawn by him himself, about three years old –: a headfooter. [[the speaker holds an enlarged copy of a child drawing in the height]] These differences in development exist in all areas when the children come to school, and therefore it is very important – and I am pleased that one of the main points in the government programme is the question of how to improve this school entrance phase. I know about the problems of competence, that early promotion is a matter for the countries and that we must do everything and thanks to God we have already taken first steps in the field of education, that we have the first corresponding teaching chairs, so that we can make progress accordingly and that in the medium and long term there are also early pedagogists who can start where the development deficits are. It has been proved, not only by brain research, that there are “playful” exercises – under quotation marks – not through training, but through playful exercises! – Developmental residues can be reduced almost easily. While at the age of ten, eleven, I need a few years of logos until I get rid of language and speech errors, I can do that easily. From our point of view, it is quite, very important and central that we do everything we can to improve the opportunities for the children to have the best possible start of school, and if they do not have it, we also get the best possible support. Our objective is the following – and I would like to end by stressing this – and this is also the goal of all the measures we have heard from my previous speakers and which we also want to implement in accordance with our programmes: It is important to promote weaker and to demand stronger. We want to do everything so that no child can stay on the track and that every child is able to go his life course according to his individual abilities and performance, as he or she is adapted for him or her. What's so beautiful? – Not for school, but for life we learn. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e9516	The next speaker was Mrs Jank. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e9538	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Minister, I am emphasizing everything you have said, but I think that at the start of school you may also be allowed to look at the system in principle. It is clear to me that, for us, in a highly developed democracy, where education and training is a central basis of political and social responsibility, it must be obvious that all those who live here, including those who are currently coming to us as refugees and asylum seekers, must receive and receive the right offer. In our training system, much is good, but that does not mean that much can get even better. We certainly cannot accept that 20 percent of 15-year-olds cannot read meaningfully, not to mention the solution of simple computing tasks, as we know them from many examples of company intake tests. Nor can we accept that around 4 percent of all young people between 15 and 24 do not have compulsory schooling, and we cannot look away if many young people do not receive an apprenticeship because they are not able to train. That these figures could rise if we did not succeed in teaching children of asylum seekers – and not just these – from the beginning and unconditionally German – namely German in language and writing; many come from a culture with non-Latin writing – which is obvious, therefore: to invest better early than to repair later! But that certainly does not work after that – and this impression I sometimes hold – motto: one fits all. In order to have equal opportunities, it takes a wide range of options, it takes a competition up and not the smallest common denominator. Children need to be encouraged, not a question, but children also want to be asked. In the government programme and with the establishment of the Education Reform Commission, the government has committed itself to the further development of our school system and, as I mean, I am expecting courageous results. A central point in this education reform commission and in the school reform must, from my point of view, be the expansion of school autonomy – autonomy in terms of personnel, educational, organisational and budgetary. That we will succeed is certainly a great challenge, but if we do not try, we will not be able to do it either. From international comparisons we know that there is a high-quality education everywhere, where competent educators are responsible – in their own right – for themselves! – work towards the implementation of defined educational objectives. The school management must be able to decide autonomously which teachers are to be in a team, it must have the competence on recruitment and personnel development. The school management must be able to decide, in accordance with the school partners, what priorities a school should focus on, what other educational institutions it may bring into the school, how it cooperates with enterprises, institutions, cultural institutions, how a school ultimately wants to position itself in a competition between schools, i.e. schools among themselves. This means, of course, more flexibility in the formation of classes and learning groups, but this also means more room for design in the field of curriculum. In the same logic, we must also take care of the elementary areas; the kindergarten is the first educational institution, even that has already been said today. The extension of childcare facilities and the introduction of a compulsory kindergarten year were therefore a decisive step. The mandatory language status for all four-year-olds will ensure that parents know at an early stage whether their child needs language early promotion – and then will have to respond to it, and then the promotion measures will have to be directed towards it. Significantly more commitment is needed in public schools. Differences in student performance are already very pronounced in the public school – my previous speaker has just said it – so we also need to consider whether the use of funds, the financial contribution, should no longer be transferred into the public school to really consolidate the basic competences there, so that everything that is to come after that can be well prepared. Of course, we also need to consider what the new digital world brings us, how we can come to new forms of teaching and learning, how we can integrate all of this into our education system, both in training itself and, of course, in preparation for the future professional activity of those children and young people who are overreacted to us in the school system, so that they can be guaranteed the best possible way of life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e9599	The next speaker to speak was Dr Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e9620	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! School starter – and we now have a small educational debate. After we have heard three representatives of social democracy who have described their dreams, utopia and desires from the Löwelstraße using the ivory tower Minorite Square, which in reality have no idea of what is happening in Austria's schools, we may, after these hymns of praise, bring some things back. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] One at the beginning: It became the situation of – how did Mrs. Grossmann say? – about 5,800 new asylum seekers in Austria, and it was also said by all the previous speakers here that they should be taken care of – and that must also be said accordingly. Ladies and gentlemen. If children in school are in Austria, there is a law for them to go to school. I didn't think we had to talk here in the National Council about the need to comply with laws – nothing else is going on. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We have the law of compulsory schooling, and therefore, of course, all children who are here are to be trained. [[Abg. Amon:... compulsory schooling!]] It is therefore also necessary to create the corresponding organisational conditions – but not the same as in the examples that I can then bring. It has been said that we now have an Education Reform Commission, which may also take courageous decisions. – Well, if I see what this government is doing in the direction of health policy, in the direction of national defence, in the direction of economic policy, in the economic location – I am thinking of the horror packages for tourism, for tourism, for the host industry and so on – then I will not believe that it will improve with education. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] [[Abg. Lopatka: Sorry! Record results!]] [[Abg. Lopatka: Mr Rosary, we have record results...! ... record results in tourism!]] – You can talk later. In the title of this current hour, there is “opportunity of opportunity”: Yes, I know, the Federal Chancellor has told us that for Mr Doğudan of DO & CO everything will not be a problem; but there are other gastronomy in Lower Austria where, thanks to your economic policy, two host houses will be locked every week. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You can write this one behind your ears! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walser.]] “Chance justice” has been said. One thing has not yet been done, namely the inherited educational opportunities, which have not yet been addressed. I'll tell you one thing: This education system, which you plan, will in future open up the social gap even more between those who can afford a expensive private school for their children and those who are forced to go to the public school system. What did we not hear? All day care – of course, the changes in the labour market are such that you will need school forms all day long, only it is an illusion to believe that it will work like the school without a school bag: no longer need to learn at home, the child will be finished. The whole day school lasts from 8 a.m. to 4.30 p.m.; if we start the school later now, at 9 a.m., then 7.5 hours or 6.5 hours a day remain for: five or six hours of lessons that have been available up to now, for the daily exercise unit, for lunch, for play and fun. – This is not based on basic accounting methods without a reduction in teaching time. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It was said about the effort and the performance, but one has not yet been spoken of: of the discipline. If teachers tell me that 70 percent of the teaching time is going to make discipline in the class before you even come to a teaching content, then I know that some things are going wrong in our education system. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Many things have been addressed, I'm just saying one thing: What is happening – and that is so in broad political fields – is the absolute refusal of reality. If it says that it is all there is for schools, I bring a recent example of equal opportunities. Bundesgymnasium Albertgasse in Vienna: The parents are told at the beginning of the school year that for cost reasons the four preparatory hours for the Matura will be deleted, on the other hand, one needs money for Arabic teachers and, in some cases, it will be like last winter, that only sporadically the heating will be turned on, so that the students will have to sit in class with the jackets. This is educational reality, school reality! I come to the right of opportunity. A small example of how the SPÖ sees in Amstetten, for example: If a young man is wearing a FPÖ leiberl there, he is told: No, your contract with the city will not be extended! [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] It is also so, and when he then addresses his colleague and asks: Why are you allowed to wear a SPÖ leiberl during leisure time?, then after a word struggle he is even beaten by socialist partygoers, hit infirmary mature and the arm is broken him. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] This is already criminally pending, and we will find it, Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e9767	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Walser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e9790	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Yes, Mrs. Minister, you wanted constructive-critical contributions from the opposition – you can have that! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nice.]] In fact, what we have heard describes a healthy educational world that unfortunately does not agree with reality, with the students, the parents, especially the teachers. We have heard here what has gotten better, and I do not agree with your efforts to bring about positive reforms in certain areas. But the essential thing – and this will be measured by this government – is that we will be on the 17th. The results of the Education Reform Commission will be presented in November. [[Call the FPÖ:Mutive results!]] This is not what we have hoped for and what gives rise to great hope, Mrs Minister, especially when we confront the world of health in the world of education with what is happening every day. Yesterday and today I have received news from outraged teachers – especially from Upper Austria and Tyrol – that value units are deleted at technical schools. For those who do not know what this is: Every hour will be evaluated, i.e. the deletion of units of value means the strike of hours, and – that too will be a task of the government, and you will also be measured – even there we do not need less, there we need more money. Not only is the Minister of Education required, but the whole government is called for, in particular, the Minister of Finance. We must tackle this educational reform, and we must also confess that the money needs it. Now I hear, kindergartens are educational institutions, now I hear we have to make these transitions. – Mrs Minister, one year ago we presented our proposal for the flexible school entry phase. Unfortunately, he was not welcomed by a majority in the Committee on Education, but he has at least found entry into the SPÖ's programme on the theme party's day – I congratulate you on that. We are happy when constructive green proposals are received from social democracy. But it was about implementing it. We need to leave children more time in this phase. Of course, what Mr Mayer pointed out is right. Clearly, children come with very, very different conditions to the public schools. We must leave them time for this development, and we must not develop models to which we are still special; Mr Rosenkranz would like to arrange for the entry into the elementary school somehow by examinations and so on. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Are you crazy...?]] – No, no, no; you get crazy listening to your suggestions and what your people say. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Where do you get this? How do you get this naughtiness? How do you take this submission? Show me a quote! That's inconceivable!]] You know that folk school is an overall school, my colleague. [[Calls of the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig and the FPÖ.]] – Not so excited, it will not use anything now if you shout here! Your speakers then have the opportunity to make things as clear as you want. Mrs. Minister, another proposal: the FürMig model, the Hamburg model for language promotion; we also brought it into the teaching committee. You were in Hamburg, you looked at it, you thought it was good. By the way, it would not have been necessary to drive to Hamburg, because one of the most important protagonists of this model is in Vienna, Professor Łnci Dirim. It is available for appropriate information, and it is available to implement this model of language promotion here with us. These are the things that we have to deal with in concrete terms, but these are also the things that have to be planned for the budget. The Article 15a agreements, i.e. the agreements between the Federal Government and countries on language promotion, are now being extended. It may be good that this money is preserved, but, Mrs. Minister, where does the evaluation stay? We also need to see whether the money we spend makes use of something. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hauser.]] This has worked in your ministry until 2009, then it has been outsourced, and since the Minister of Foreign Affairs has been made by the Minister for Integration, I see nothing more about evaluation and appropriate review. The government is measured by what it did on 17 November. It will be presented in November. The courage that the EIA calls for should be especially with its negotiators. As before, it cannot and cannot go on! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e9875	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Meinl-Risinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e9897	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to add what Harald Walser said at the end: We'll do it on 17 November. November. Mrs. Minister! With regard to constructive criticism: Matthias Strolz has already offered several offers, but it also requires that the opposition be involved. We are full of constructive criticism and constructive proposals, they are just not heard. I have a bit of a feeling that you want to discuss behind closed doors here, because – and I have to blame you – it's about power-political games. You said: Let's not make politics on the back of the children! – Yes, I see that as well, but then let us resolve from power-political discussions behind closed doors and really create an open, transparent, honest space in which the opposition’s proposals are also taken away! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] As much as I share the demand for equal opportunities through education – and this is indeed a great concern for us; of course, it is so that children from the families start with different conditions, not a question, but in my opinion it is also the task of the school to ensure that equal opportunities are produced – but I think it is a little brave that the SPÖ makes this the issue today, because if you look at the education policy of the SPÖ, in the redest of all the federal states, in Vienna, there is no talk of equal opportunities in education. On the contrary – and you also have to make this criticism happen –: In Vienna, as in hardly any other state or city, the sentence counts: Tell me where you're from, and I'll tell you how far you're bringing it! I already know – now without any polemics – that urban spaces have special challenges, but – and I think you are – you have not managed to meet these challenges except with small PR-flakes. Let us look at the numbers – I am very glad that we have sober numbers here; it has also been mentioned –: A fifth of the children leave compulsory school in Vienna and cannot read meaningfully. A third of the children are risk students in mathematics after the folk school. That's dramatic numbers. This is a real tragedy for these young people. In my opinion, this is a shame to urban policy, and it is by far the most stupid thing we want to do. the location can do, because the future of this city lies exclusively in the education and training of our children. We have put in here a number of proposals that we could do. One essential point here is – and I come back to the topic of party politics or power-political games mentioned at the outset: Party policy, party books have lost nothing in schools. I am very grateful that the Court of Auditors indicated a few days ago that the Council of State Schools, that the Council of Town Schools are also completely bloated, party-political devices that are expensive, inefficient and which ultimately produce one, namely, the power-political, the party-political influence into each school – and this has not lost anything in a school! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] I spoke to a folk school director in the preparation of our educational plans for Vienna, who has been very intensive. She is a director at a school that is classically referred to as a focal school, I would say once – that is, a high index of social disadvantage, as it means in literature, actually precarious conditions at home, many children with non-German mother tongue – and she says that it is very difficult to actually do what she wants to do, namely to take away every child. I asked her what she needed to take each child, and she mentioned two things. The first is: I want to decide for myself at the school location how I use the funds. I know best what I have to do. For example, I want to have the budget to bring an actress to school, which she has done for a while, because this linguistic-textual access to language learning works very well. I urgently need a school social worker at school. The system of counsellors is simply too little, and it is not the job of teachers, in this field... – No, there are no fixed school social workers at school. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Gusenbauer-Jäger and Mr Yılmaz.]] The second thing she said is: I need more money. – We NEOS have put on the table a proposal to save €120 million a year – in politics, without reducing any performance for a Viennese or a Viennese – in order to invest this money in education. In the meantime, the corresponding popular desire has signed 20,000 Vienneses. I thank everyone who did that. I hope there's going to be much more, so we can put pressure on it. This money – which is €1,000 per compulsory student/student – meant that more teachers and a school-social worker were expected to recruit at every school and also to drive digitalisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e9979	Next item is the report by Mr Klubobmann Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e10000	Madam President. High house! Yes, Mrs. Minister, after we have been talking about autonomy intensively for years now – for months now – the only thing that comes to your mind is that the school bells probably don't ring at all?- Oh, my God! If you look at what you have done in terms of autonomy so far, then you can see this very well on the following example. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Feichtinger.]] We currently have the situation that 5,000 refugee children are being distributed to schools. They will then be able to sit in classes and never follow the teaching nor to understand any word of what is being spoken. If you had given autonomy to the school, then no director, no teacher would have come to this crazy idea of simply putting refugee children who don't speak English in any classes. No one would have come to this insanity idea, but you would have made your own classes especially for refugee children who cannot speak German, in order to give them the opportunity to learn the language intensively and then, sometime after half a three-quarters of a year, maybe after a year of regular teaching. That's how you do it. [[==References====External links== Gusenbauer hunter.]] You wouldn't do it any differently either. If you came to the idea of flying to Turkey and studying there, you would also first learn the language and not just sit in there and hope that you will somehow get something, because that is pointless. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wenninger.]] So what we would need would be our own refugee classes to teach the German language there, which is only the second step. The first step would be to explain once if these refugees were allowed to remain at all. That doesn't make anyone! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] No one explains whether all those who are now in classes can stay with their parents at all, whether they have an asylum claim at all. [[Abg. Glavischig-Piesczek: That's totally meaty! ... learn!]] This exam is still missing, but once this exam has taken place, I am of course in favour of promoting these children, because if they stay with us, they must learn German. But you can't do it because you want it ideologically, just put it there – and then the teachers call me and ask me: What are we doing with these kids?- Oh, my God! I now have four, five children in it and have no idea what to do with them, because they don't understand a word German. Do you think these children feel so comfortable in these classes if they don't understand a word German? They have said today that after this long flight they will finally be in an atmosphere in which they feel comfortable. – Well, do you believe that if they feel comfortable in class as a foreign body, if they can’t speak a word, don’t understand a word?- Oh, my God! Do you think that's useful? – But that’s exactly the problem: Their ideology prevents you from doing the right thing. If you gave the schools autonomy, the schools would decide for themselves. The schools would decide for themselves, because every teacher knows, that's not how it works – just you don't know! They also drive over at the New Middle School, spend an incredible amount of money and don't want you to make an internal differentiation. You're talking about internal differentiation, but you're not doing it! [[Abg. Gusenbauer hunter: Who says that?]] You don't want it! They do not want those who need support to be taken out of the classroom and put in their own classes. You don't want that because your ideology is against it. More about ideology: We have not heard a word from you today about the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors has addressed to you that we need exactly this autonomy – politics out of school! – because we spend summaries on structures that no human needs. The Court of Auditors has predicted that we have national school council presidents' representatives who earn up to €8,000 a month without doing anything. [[Abg. Neubauer: Right!]] They're not doing anything! They don't have a job! They don't do anything! [[Abg. New builder: But two secretaries have them!]] There are Presidents who charge €20 000 in fees, and the Court of Auditors says no one knows what it is for. In other federal states, fees are simply billed flat-rate, without anyone presenting a proof at all, and all that is possible in your system. And on the other hand, we've already heard that today, you don't even have money to heat the classes. [[Abg. Gusenbauer hunter: But go!]] And you don't have the money to do what is necessary, namely to actually promote the children, and all this because you Your “toy” school does not want to give out of hand. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] The reason you don't want to give the school out of hand is not because you believe you can do it better than the local directors, than the local teachers. – You can't even believe that. That's not the reason. The reason is that the school is a political instrument of power, and you don't want to give up. That's why, when we're talking about autonomy, you're talking about the possibility of blazing the bell or not. That's exactly the point: If you are talking about autonomy, talk about autonomy, decide whether the bell is ringing or not. When we talk about autonomy, we're talking about giving directors and teachers the opportunity to decide what to do on the spot. You know why? Because they know better than the politicians. And do you know why they know better? Because they're on the spot. They know their students, they know the problems, they know the problems of the location, and that's why they know better. That's why: Politics out of school!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e10125	Next, Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e10147	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Lugar, you are a major error in your presentations. You mean things are the way you imagine them. But this is not necessarily the case. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Perhaps we can take another look at the example of refugee children: I think none of us remains untouched in the face of the pictures we see in the last days and weeks, and of course we all observe with concern and ask ourselves how we will deal with these refugee flows, and of course it is important that we take appropriate steps outside politics so that families with children are not forced to flee for weeks and live in refugee camps under unworthy conditions, from where they will of course travel. But if these families with their children are with us, then we are just taking care of the children. That is no question, and Mr Rosenkranz, too, has put this point out of the question. The question is how we take care of the refugee children. The Federal Minister has already given a very clear position today. When we approach this phenomenon with the attitude, we do, and we have the sufficient resources, and where they are not, we make them available there and expand them, then we will deal with it. That's not a question. We have already dealt with serious problems, and we will do so together. For example, if we look at the situation in Vienna, let us take a close look at it from the dimensions: 350 refugee children at the schools in Vienna have now started at school – 350 refugee children at 700 schools in Vienna, just so that we have the sizes right in mind. 350 refugee children of 220,000 Viennese children who go to school are 0.15 percent. That's a scale we can handle in our schools. This is, of course, a challenge that needs appropriate support, but it is also a challenge. Refugee children belong to their own refugee classes, we have just heard. That is exactly the wrong path in the pedagogical sense. Everyone who's just a little concerned with this question knows that. [[Abg. Lugar: It's about language acquisition!]] – Yes, that the children acquire the language, that is of course a very essential basis – for these children themselves too. [[Abg. Lugar: It doesn't work in the classroom!]] The question is how we best help there, and there it is important for refugee children, as well as for other children, that they are in a normal class, that they finally arrive in normality – and our schools can also offer this normality to refugee children. The refugee children come to a normal class association. This is important so that the children, but also the parents, can have normal contacts in this country, experience normality and start integration, because people want it. The best teachers for children who can't learn German and, of course, are other children. They experience them in the classes, and that's why it's important that they have this association. Special support is important. In schools, it sees which child needs how much support, and then flexibly sets up with support measures, programmes, offers. The children – for example, the woman minister has already mentioned the program “New in Vienna” – will then be taken out of the class for a day, two days, up to five days, depending on how the individual child needs it, specifically promoted and supported and returned to the class to the other children, where they are integrated and learn the language best playfully with the other children. Whatever it takes is that where special situations arise, the system school is supported accordingly. The Minister also stressed this. And if we keep in mind the start of school – I am sorry now because of my limited speaking time I have not come to carry out this topic – the first days of school, the curiosity, the watchful eyes, the children who look forward to the new phase of life, on what they are learning there, I support everything that has been said to encourage the children from the beginning, with the aim of keeping the children of this fun and this curiosity.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e10205	The next item is Mr El Habbassi. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e10227	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! I am very surprised at some of the terms that have fallen today – positively surprised, I would like to add. The fact that our coalition partner now takes words such as “performance”, “promoting” and “demanding” into the mouth is something positive and, as I believe, the right approach to respond to the problems we now have and to meet those challenges which we now have much stronger in the education and school systems. [[Abg. Krainer: That's what we've done, you haven't been in the world yet!]] [[Rejoicing at the SPÖ]] I would like to say a few words to you, Mr Klubobmann Lugar. At first I was surprised – not only positively – that it is clear that all children who are in Austria are subject to compulsory schooling, because it is a law – Mr Rosenkranz has made it clear – but it is precisely in your remarks that it is clear why it is necessary to refer to laws that apply in this country again and again. And it makes no sense to keep children who are here – even if their parents do not yet have a valid asylum certificate or similar – away from education, because just such a procedure then leads children to be unable to speak the language properly, do not know our values and our culture, are not embedded in society, and this has resulted in many, many problems such as the termination of education, read weaknesses or difficulties with mathematics that the colleagues have previously pointed out. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Lugar: You must listen a little before replicating! Listen!]] That is why I would like all in this House to uphold these laws, which apply to us – and rightly so. Perhaps just an example to tell you from my experiences, which I have made in the Austrian school system – after I have come to the world. When I was in elementary school at the time, many refugees from the former Yugoslavia were with us in the school. What did you do? – We did not separate the children in individual ghetto classes, we did not promote them, but we integrated them into the classes, the children could make quite normal friendships with children from Austria, and during the breaks we also had to speak the language to deal with the other colleagues. And what did they have after that? – Additional funding lessons in German! That is exactly the approach that we are constantly pursuing from the ÖVP: We need German before entering school, and we need German start-up and start-up courses – during the class as additional support. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Krainer: The Group of the European People's Party does not commend it!]] [[Abg. Lugar: Ah, language acquisition before entering school? Did I not say that, German before entering school?! This is a little bit different from what I said!]] German before entering school and German during school – this is what we need for the young people who have come to Austria because they have fled with their parents from war, and I think none of us want to exchange with the children and experience what they had to experience. In my opinion, however, one thing is too short today: When dealing with teachers, one hears that it is becoming increasingly difficult to have discipline in school, in the class, that teachers often have difficulty being recognized by young migrants, because they obviously have a problem with being taught by a woman. We have to say quite clearly: If we want to ensure social peace and security in Austria, then we will not come around, in addition to learning to speak, completely, clearly to deal with what values are held high in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Krainer:... the Green!]] I think that should be a very essential part of our efforts, that we all say: Those who seek protection in Austria get protection. But: The rules of living together, which apply in Austria, must be accepted. Whether this is the rule of law, whether it is the equal rights of men and women, whether it is freedom of expression or whether this is also discipline and respect for teachers, educators and educators who make a big contribution to integration at all. I want to close and maybe repeat a few things: We are pleased to make offers – expanding all day school forms, language crash courses, leaving the dogma of the pure team of teaching, which the New Secondary School has so far made, to say, okay, you can use the value units differently in order to really solve the problems, the inclusion of the location-related needs, these 70 million that are made available to support projects of language acquisition, culture and value communication. [[Abg. Mayer: That's all there is!]] That is, I think, a positive thing that this government is doing to solve the problems we are facing. I would like to end with a request that I have often put here: It's about innovative solutions. [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] For example, there are a lot of software providers who have developed language software that meet the new requirements with the many refugees.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e10354	Please, let's get to the end of the sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e10369	There are many people who want to bring in their language skills that may be available to parents as a companion in refugee homes, when speaking...
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e10399	Ladies and gentlemen, put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e10414	This potential should be used for integration in Austria! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e10441	Next speaker: Mrs Dr Belakovich-Jenewein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e10463	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If you listen to some of the speakers here, you would have to think that the school in Austria is just before imploding, so gray, terrible images are drawn there and so urgent reforms towards the general school are necessary. - Please don't! If you ask the people in this country: The very, very large mass of people in Austria are satisfied with this school system, and I would also say that we have good schools in Austria. But yes, there are problems – of course, there are the ones – and these problems mainly concern the agglomerations. We have the problem, of course, that we have a lot of children with non-German native languages. I know you don't want to hear that now, but that's exactly where the problems lie. We've heard a couple of times today: German before entering school, German during school entry. – Yes, that’s the need! There must also be consequences for parents who refuse to send their children to German-speaking kindergartens in time to teach German. If you look at the PISA studies – which has not yet been mentioned – this is for You're always like this: Oh, oh, there we are so terriblely bad! – then you should consider calculating children with non-German native language. Then we're not bad. That means, of course, it is a language deficit that poses a problem. If children cannot expect and a third of all children in Vienna have a problem in calculation after the folk school, then there is often a lack of reading, because the children simply do not understand the task, and that is exactly where the problems lie. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Once we distinguish between the PISA study, as is the case with ten-year-olds and fourteen-year-olds, it is already true that we have major problems, especially in the ten-year-olds, that problems exist especially in the folk school – and there is common education – which, in the course of the fourteen-year-olds, have often already improved or even eradicated. And something else, because you still believe that the cure is the total school: This is an ideological path that is actually an error. This has also been shown by the GDR and all the other systems, where it has just failed. But if you see this as the great panacea, ladies and gentlemen, especially in the left half of the empire, I have to tell you: Where are the economically strongest regions? – In southern Germany, in Austria, in Switzerland; exactly where there is a differentiated school system. [[Abg. Mayer:... Hercule provisions!]] It's not the panacea – quite the contrary, because if I bring everyone to the same level, then that's either: either I require a part of the children or I demand a part. Not all children are the same, and not all children are the same, and everyone who has children knows that. That's why this is a very, very dangerous way that you want to walk here with your ideological glasses – where you know exactly, that doesn't matter at all, because those children who are underprivileged will eventually turn off because they are bored, and we will never be able to motivate them to do it again. But if I challenge the others, they'll turn them off sometime because they can't be with them anymore. Therefore, this differentiated school system is a good system, an important system that has grown for decades and is in fact in danger of being broken through a wide variety of school attempts and a wide range of herd doctors in recent years. – This is the danger to this school system, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Take a look at how this is in England, for example! There are the so-called total schools. Then what do parents do? – Parents often move away in more expensive residential areas, or they send the children to expensive private schools. In reality, this is only a benefit for private schools or an attack on the middle class. You can't want that, especially you from the ÖVP! You can't want all children to be shaved over a comb! If you look at the fact that in Austria all those children – or then young people – who do the Matura, half originally attended a primary school, this shows that, despite everything, there is equal opportunities, because especially in rural areas, there is the total school. After all, the very large proportion of children go to primary schools and then on to those who want it to or who just feel that they want it. That's why we don't need everything broken here. But you know, especially in Vienna, there are already problems in the agglomerations. There are so-called ghetto schools. This is the area where those children with non-German mother tongues, with migration backgrounds, are at home with social problems. These are the schools where there are real problems. There is an article in the “Falter” that describes the Vienna school system very well and puts it to the point that in Vienna there is, for example, the Volksschule Fallnstraße in Ottakring, where there are three classes: the C-Classes in the attic, these are the children who already speak English, have an English Nanny, have English as their mother tongue or have been brought to English after help. [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] Then there is a floor deeper the B classes, there is as second language Spanish. The director says that learning another language without being satanic in German would only confuse children. That means that only children who can be super good German come here. And then there are the classes down there, and these are the children who don't have a chance. If you read the “Falter” article, you know: In these schools, these are the elite schools, the red-green elite schools,...
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e10511	Your final sentence, please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e10527	where your red-green politicians are preaching water here and drinking wine and sending her children – for example, the city councillor from Vienna, who is whistling from the last red trill pepper. That's...
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e10548	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Your speaking time is over. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: This is a lying policy!]] [[In the case of the FPÖ for the Abg, leaving the speaker's desk. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] Reported as follows: Mrs Maurer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e10586	Madam President. Dear Ministers! Dear audience! Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning, I would like to address the absurd adoption that Mr Lugar has made, how he believes children acquire language: that is, because they are isolated. We know very well that there are enough scientific studies and enough live examples – ask in your circle of acquaintances! Well, you don't want that, of course, because you don't want to be confused in your wrong opinion; that's obviously understandable –, kids learn language playfully. They teach them so playfully that we now have many examples that where refugee children were integrated into the regular classes, the Austrian children also suddenly learn an additional language and suddenly can speak several sentences in Arabic. – This is how language learning works, and it works very playfully. And of course the refugee children have to get into regular classes immediately! [[Abg. Lugar: You didn't listen to me! ...no one in arbiter! You have to listen a little!]] The idea that you are making all the serious things here and saying that it may still be checked first before the children are sheltered, whether they are allowed to stay here at all, that is absolutely cynical. [[Abg. Lugar: Why?]] First, you know exactly how long it takes, and second, every child – every child! – a right to be trained, to come to a class, to get instruction, to go to school. [[Congratulations with the Greens, with representatives of the SPÖ and the Agg. Scherak.]] - Good, so much for it. The title of this current hour is “Innovative Ways for Increased Opportunities. ” I have to say: I feel that this title is a bit tragic, because innovation is actually used as a term for groundbreaking new technologies, for proposals for solutions that differ greatly from those of the past, which break with existing standards that are completely new. The problem that our education system has – of course, innovative solutions are good – requires a solution that would be particularly important in our education system, which is not so innovative at all. Mrs Minister, you yourself have just said: We are 30 years behind when we compare ourselves with Finland! We have known for many decades what it took to ensure that the path to equal opportunities in the Austrian education system can actually be taken. The social selection in the education system in Austria begins already in elementary education with the following questions: Can I get a kindergarten? How much does it cost? Can I afford it? Can't I afford it? - It's already starting. It continues in the elementary school, where Elmar Mayer spoke gratefully about the major differences in development. It continues with the absolutely absurd separation of the ten-year-olds in primary school, now Neue Mittelschule, and Gymnasium. And this decision continues the whole remaining educational path. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Yes, it starts in folk school!]] To children who were in primary school, I can bring my own example. I'm from the Stubaital. This isn't a metropolis right now. There are two main schools there. I was in high school. From my class three more have made the Matura, all others have made a teaching or perhaps a further education school. And it is not because they were in some way stupid or less interested, but only in their social status. The social status still defines in Austria whether or not a person has access to education. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. New builder: stupid!]] It shall continue to apply: Tell me who your parents are, and I'll tell you how far you can get! The probability that someone from an AHS sub-level will begin to study is three times higher than in a primary school. And it will play a similar role at the New Middle School, because the New Secondary School will continue to maintain this separation, and it will not make any major changes – even if the SPÖ is trying to sell it to us. It goes on: So I just did high school, then the HBLA – typical, because I had to learn a profession or do a vocational training so that I can earn money as soon as possible. Actually, if you look at the statistics, the further way would be if I were to go further, the university, because the university is also primarily reserved for the AHS graduates. We must finally break with this social requirement in the education system! We can also say that it is an innovative solution. It is something other countries have been presenting to us for many, many years. It's something that works. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: This doesn't work at all!]] It cannot be that the opportunities for education depend on the degree of education that parents have, how much money they have and where they come from. That's what we finally need to break! There are the answers. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: About exactly that... you in your total school!]] The ÖVP posters the safe gymnasium in Vienna. - I wonder what that is. Is there a guard in front of it and ensures that no stranger comes in? [[Abg. New builder: Is all this stupid! That's not to listen to!]] The concretery that the ÖVP has been operating there for many, many years and now also strengthened again, must also be broken! It would be a totally innovative step if we finally broke with the social selection in Austria. That would be the first step in my life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e10717	Next word reported: Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Strolz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e10750	Now come the wings! It's correct! Madam President, I should like to thank you for your support. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear citizens! Dear parents! Dear students who are also here today! Here we have a morning debate on “Innovative ways for greater equal opportunities” in the Austrian school system. Thank you for this theme, I think this is central. We need more equal opportunities in Austria because, in international comparison, there are few countries in the OECD where education is as much inherited as in Austria. That is, how the educational paths and the vocational biographies for young people develop, does not decide along the question of which talents are slumbering in these young people, which passions want to develop, but along the question: What are your parents doing? - That's wrong. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] This is a bending of tens of thousands of young CVs each year. This can be quite, quite a lot of countries on this planet better than Austria, and of course we can learn from these countries. We know about and for ourselves what to do. I wonder – I am now in this House for almost two years now – that we are going to adopt things here with a majority that I am convinced of, on the basis of discussions under four eyes, that they do not have a majority. I always wonder that we do not say goodbye to things that we know are to do, of which I know they have a majority, but they will not be adopted here. [[Abg. Honey: What? What... to do?]] – You ask me: What, for example? If the Education Spokesman of ÖVP, Brigitte Jank, whom I appreciate in her commitment, here again and again says we need autonomy, we need human autonomy, we need financial autonomy, educational autonomy, then I can guarantee you that this federal government with the participation of the ÖVP on 17 May. November this year, when she will deliver the school reform package she has promised under the title “School Autonomy”, she does not know that it is right for the children and young people. [[Abg. Cute: What does this have to do with equal opportunities?]] You will not present any personal autonomy because you do not create it, because personal autonomy naturally means that teachers are employed at school, that we can also separate ourselves from the 5 percent, as in any profession that is wrong in this profession. The bending young people who break or damage the image of the profession. They frustrate their teachers' colleagues, teachers' colleagues, who are quite, very many, in the excess who are involved in the work. That won't happen. People in your parties will prevent that. You will not bring financial autonomy because you obviously find it wrong or bad, especially because you are suffering from loss of control – just like Mr. Pröll and Mr. Landesführer Niessl, who have risen from this reform group and not to... – Well, I don’t think I can say that now – they were not too bad, so we put it up to admit that they’re getting up because they don’t get control of the federal teachers. School policy is just for these two government parties – and I exclude many individuals who have good will here – but structurally school politics for ÖVP and SPÖ is power policy, control, enforcement of their interests – and that is too little. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Mrs Minister, if you look at innovation, there are a lot of examples. I was a lot on my way to school. There is the Storchennest in Kaisersdorf in Burgenland. I was in Leibnitz in the South Styria in the Sonnenhaus. I was recently in Perchtoldsdorf at Montessori International School. I was born in the “w@lz” under green participation – or at least by green candidates – I was in the education campus West in Vienna. – Innovation takes place there. There are dedicated educators and educators, often worse paid than in public schools. There are dedicated schools. There are dedicated parents. There the children come in with a grin and they go out with a grin. What's the Republic doing? – The Republic says: Then pay for it yourself! They have been destroying innovation reliably and structured in the Austrian school system for decades. You don't want that. That's why I'm saying: If you want innovation, you also need to create opportunities for schools that dare to innovate in the private sector. Then I say: They're supposed to get public money, not 80 percent funding if they're religious, and 10 percent if they're not religious. – Equal opportunities for everyone! We can do that. These are sumptuous schools, and there are, of course, also great schools in the public sector, where great things happen. I know such things, for example, the Bendagas school in my immediate neighborhood. But many of the innovative things there are school trials, Mrs. Minister. [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] Madam President, I come to the end: We have 6 000 school locations, at 3 000 school locations we have school tests. We have not managed to transfer this to regular schooling. This is innovation that has never been translated into the regular education system. That's where we have to sit.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e10833	Reported as follows: Mrs Schenk. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e10855	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Madam Minister, you have said a lot in your statement of entry today, but I think you have not said much more. A quote from you or the SPÖ, the motto of SPÖ education policy is: “We don’t wait for better times, we’re making them.” But just as it looks, you’re sorry, we’re waiting, and that’s certainly not good for the Austrian school system. My previous speakers have already addressed a number of areas. I would, however, like to address mainly the areas I mentioned at the outset and which they did not address, with respect to which they did not enter. I am speaking here of the much controversial sexual act for the sexual education of the children to be made new. There are massive resistances, massive problems of concerned parents who do not want their children to experiment at school. That's where you've remained guilty of answers. They have also remained guilty of replies to the question of integration. There are major problems, especially with the integration of Muslim children, which I will address later on and for which I will also bring some quotations. Some previous speakers, especially from the Green Group, close their eyes to reality, and some of them are eager to listen. This is where I can speak to colleagues from the ÖVP who criticised our clubman Robert Lugar here because he said he said something very wrong here and confusion and stupid. And then he says he spoke for German before entering school. - Dear colleague! If you had been listening to our Mr. Klubobmann, you would have heard that he has asked for exactly that. I am pleased, however, that the ÖVP has an opinion with us. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] The Austrian school system is one of the most expensive and also one of the most inefficient. We've heard that before. The Court of Auditors has found it a number of times in its criticism. I am already at the next point. Mrs Minister, you have also not responded to the Court of Auditors' criticism, to the recent report on school autonomy, where the national school councils were heavily criticised and saved. Unfortunately, you have also remained guilty to us, as well as a statement to the New Middle School. You have presented them as a success model. But when we look at the Court of Auditors' reports, there's a lot in the arrogance, too, and a success model. New secondary school can't be a talk. I mentioned earlier that I would like to inform you of a few quotations on the lack of integration. I refer to a “Kurier” article from the beginning of this year, where a district school councillor has presented the problems but wants to remain anonymous. I would like to quote a few important passages from this. “Religion often mixes with ramboose behavior in boys, reports a district school councillor...” There are “schoolers who do not respect and articulate teachers: ‘I don’t let a woman say anything to me.’ Bubs who refuse to build a wooden mast for a ship because it represents a Christian cross. Parents who want to unsubscribe their child from music education because there are Christian songs in the songbook.” [[Intrusion of the Abg. Höbart.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I think these are good placardial examples, examples of how it should not go. This also shows that there is still a lot of need for action. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I am also surprised that none of the speakers or speakers of the Greens' Gutman Party have addressed this problem, if you are always so for women's rights and are always committed to women's rights. – Where does the cry remain here if children don't want to let a woman say anything? Furthermore, in this article there is an interview with the child lawyer Nik Nafs, who says that some sons are being raised as if they were something special, as if they had nothing to do. There is the role picture of the family to question, as it naturally happens. And here's what it says: “For pedagogues, it is often a hercules task to teach simple skills. ,The great awakening comes for students and parents mostly at the end of the fourth class. They then come to us with the idea that their son should switch to an HTL, which of course is totally unrealistic.” The bub feels he's not a hero, but he seems like a failure. “Then he feels easily drawn to groups that give him a sense of strength.” And where this leads, ladies and gentlemen, we have seen pain in recent events in Paris. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e10943	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[10:40:51]] Current European hour
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e10966	Ladies and gentlemen! We are now coming to the current European hour on the subject: ‘The European and international dimensions of the refugee crisis’ In accordance with the new provisions of the Rules of Procedure, each club may appoint a member of the European Parliament elected in Austria, who shall also take part in the negotiations. The following nominations have been made: for the SPÖ club: May. Evelyn Regner; for the ÖVP club: May. Othmar Karas; for the FPÖ club: Harald Vilimsky; for the Green Club: Vice-President of the European Parliament Mag. Ulrike Lunacek; for the NEOS Club: Dr. Angelika Mlinar. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the European Parliament, I very much welcome you to the Austrian Parliament! Today we will live up to this new instrument of speaking rights for European Parliamentarians in the Austrian National Council. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that it is agreed that each Member of the European Parliament can speak at a maximum of 5 minutes in the debate. For today's current European hour, the seats on the left and right of the Bureau have been set for the Members of the European Parliament as seats. That is what we are entering the debate. The first word that is available is from Klubobmann Dr. Lopatka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e11025	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen on the National Council! For the first time: Ladies and gentlemen of the European Parliament! “The EU in the most serious crisis of its history” this week called the “profile” and many wonder: [[Call at the FPÖ:And further below are the survey results!]] Is it possible for the EU to get out of this crisis? – I say it at the beginning: Not only do we all have to hope, but we also have to do everything we can to make the European Union work. For this boundless human-reverential process of Islamists, wars without prospect of a rapid end have a consequence that directly affects us: But thousands of desperate refugees have made their way. [[Abg. Steinbichler: War refugees or economic refugees?]] Yes, the EU is in a difficult situation. The crises at the periphery meet us immediately. What do people expect from us here? – Of course, you expect clear answers as soon as possible and, if possible, final answers, and they get these answers from the policy. [[Abg. That's how I'm doing. That's where I'm excited!]] The simple answers, my colleague, are not always the right ones! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of SPÖ and Greens.]] And the right answers are not always easy. [[Abg. Höbart: Your long sleep doesn't make it better either!]] And this makes it easy for you, Mr Hübner, in pre-election periods, to take advantage of the concerns of the people for small and medium-sized political money. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] We'll hear that in your speech. We experience it every day. [[Abg. Beautiful: These are your answers!]] [[Call to the FPÖ: This is absurd!]] We see it as a political task – and that is not absurd, Mr President! – not to make people more worried about their concerns in this situation. We want to give them honest answers. Given the current flow of refugees, in a dimension which has not existed since 1945, the European Union is in a situation where the rule of law, in which the norms such as the Dublin regulations actually do not take the form we would have liked. [[Abg. Höbart: Sleep for half a year!]] Until yesterday, neither has the State community of the 28 EU Member States been able to develop prospects. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: But no answer!]] A first step, an important step in the right direction, however, was taken yesterday by the Ministers of the Interior, it has been decided. Yes, they are right when it comes to these quotas, but in reality this is only at the end of the chain. The most important thing is that the European Union supports all efforts to curb the war on the ground to do everything that people do not see themselves forced to turn their backs on their homeland. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ]] - That's the first point. The second point: The EU's external borders need to be re-evaluated as borders. In fact, there is a need to re-check this place. And there is the fact that Greece – including Italy, but especially Greece – has been completely overwhelmed in recent times. You have to see that. Third point: All illegal asylum seekers will have to know in the future that they will also be re-transfered to these first reception centres that need to be built. That is to say, we have to come to a new order in this area, because what we currently have is an exceptional situation where politics naturally tries to do everything, but if not to take the right steps together in Europe if this external border is not effectively protected in order to maintain the internal order in the European Union – Schengen has provided for the internal borders to be open – then I understand that in this situation steps are taken by the national states that are not steps forward but are necessary. What do I mean by that? – I think it is right that Austria has also put short-term Schengen out of power, that we control at the border. But we also need to know that closing borders within Europe is not progress – this is one of the biggest freedoms of the European Union – and this freedom of travel is unfortunately an end to it temporarily. Greece and Italy, of course, need our support in order to ensure the protection of external borders. Those who arrive at these external borders also need to know clearly that only those who actually have to save their lives can get protection and help because they are fleeing from the war zone and can only get the protection that has been politically persecuted. This is our humanitarian responsibility. That is what we owe to our principles. That must be known to those who arrive at these borders. But those who want to improve economically also need to know that there is a limit here that not everyone who wants to improve economically can come to us. At the same time, we must say that those who want to improve economically are not entitled to asylum. We must make this clear border crossing, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Darmann: You have to end the invitation policy of economic migrants! That's inconceivable!]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Why don't you do that?]] I know that this gift of differentiation is strange to you, I am aware of that, but it is very important for us to say this today. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: You don't do anything, that's the problem! They always demand and do nothing!]] [[Further calls to the FPÖ]] We also support the proposal of the Minister of the Interior, which our members of the government – the Vice-Cancellor, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Minister of Justice and the Minister of the Interior – presented on Monday: Asylum on time. [[Abg. Darmann: Asylum is a right to time! That's the white mold!]] This means that after three years it will be generally examined whether anyone has an asylum claim. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: This is applicable right! That's nothing new!]] – Of course, this is something new, the general review! [[Abg. New builder: This is an old hat!]] [[Abg. Wöginger: Just like you!]] - Maybe for you! – And after five years each individual case will be reviewed again. Ladies and gentlemen! We say quite clearly – the vice chancellor has repeated it on Monday – what at that time the world-renowned German President Richard von Weizsäcker meant: “The right of asylum applies to those who need us” – war refugees, politically persecuted ones – “and the right of immigration for those we need.” [[Abg. Darmann: All applicable law!]] It is precisely this principle, ladies and gentlemen, that we are following in our 8-point programme, which we have put in place here. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Since when?]] [[The speaker presented a paper entitled “ÖVP Action Plan Asylum” and pictograms on the speaker’s desk.]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: You don't follow that, that's the problem!]] Solidarity with the needy, a clear no to asylum abuse, no asylum à la carte! [[The representatives of the ÖVP keep records up to date, among other things: ‘Fight against tugs’, ‘Asyl on time’, ‘No asylum à la carte’.]] Second point: Fighting the tractors with all hardness, resolving conflicts on the ground, building protection zones, strengthening the protection of the EU's external borders, safeguarding the EU's external borders, and ensuring a fair distribution within Europe, but also a fair distribution...
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e11323	Excuse me, Mr Klubobmann! I think we've all noticed it now. Thank you very much. I'd ask you to take the signs down again.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e11338	Ladies and gentlemen! Today, for the first time, Members of the European Parliament will speak here! [[Abg. Darmann: You don't do anything!]] [[Calls at the ÖVP.]] – Mr Darmann, you are about to speak. I am still speaking if you allow it. [[Abg. Riemer: Yes, you must say that to your own group!]] - Good, thank you. It is precisely the current situation, ladies and gentlemen, that shows very clearly that Europe's policy and internal policy – I do not know what you are so excited about – cannot be separated. [[new calls to the FPÖ]] And it is true that we have taken this step that Members of the European Parliament are allowed to take part in the debate here, and I am pleased that one who has fought for it in particular will then take the floor as the first European Member, our colleague, Othmar Karas, whom I can warmly welcome here for all Members of the European Parliament. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, a sustainable solution to this very, very difficult question can only be European, there can only be a European solution. Even Germany, such a strong state, is not alone. The EU is extremely demanding, but it is not overwhelmed.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e11407	Mr Bundesminister spoke briefly on a preliminary opinion. Mr Federal Minister, your speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e11429	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In particular, however, I should like to welcome Members to the European Parliament. I am very pleased that we are here today in Parliament for the first time to hold an hour of Europe together with MEPs, because I believe that the exchange with our Members in the European Parliament is crucial. I should also like to say that I am particularly pleased that among Members who are not only committed to the European project now, I have not only demanded that there be a right of speech in Parliament for them, but also that they have been active from the first hour. And I should like to congratulate all of you here, Othmar Karas, who is not only the chairman of the largest political group in the European Parliament, but also, as the chairman of the Young ÖVP, has expressed himself particularly for a strong Austria in a strong Europe. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I believe that this exchange in Parliament is very crucial. In many policy areas, we can only act properly with the European level together with our MEPs in Brussels, with the European Parliament. Secondly, especially in times like those in which we face great challenges in Europe, it is crucial that the representatives of all the parties we have in Brussels can also make a contribution here in Austria to bring Europe closer to the citizens and to make Europe more discuss and take place in Austria. I should like to say briefly that, of course, within the European Union, we have many issues and issues, such as the question of the location of Europe: How can we remain competitive in the long term? How can we maintain the prosperity that the generations have developed before us? The whole subject of security: How do we manage as a Europe to become stronger in security and defence policy? But, of course, we will also be faced with a subject that has been raised by Britain, namely the European reform: How can we change Europe so that it is well positioned in the future? In addition to the many issues, however, there is above all a topic that overshadows everything, and that is the asylum crisis. Since we can only find a European answer here, I would also like to say a few words on this subject. I think it is very crucial to deal with this at the beginning: Is that a media topic? Is this a topic that was built up, or is that a real topic? And here you quickly get to the point where everyone has to hold on, of course this is a real challenge, of course this is a topic that is taking place on site and especially in Austria. We had an average of 20,000 asylum applications per year, we had 30 000 last year, we expected 70 000 this year, and since Germany changed the course, we see in Austria the ever-increasing numbers of asylum seekers. We know that there are still tens of thousands on the Western Balkans route, and we also know that there are still millions of people in the region in search of a better life in Europe, not to mention more and more people who are on their way to Europe in other countries, in Tunisia, Algeria, Pakistan, Egypt or Iran. This is a 100% human being, but at the same time I believe it is our task to develop strategies and solutions, as we can provide protection to those who really need protection, but at the same time to set a border on migration to Europe. I believe that it is very crucial not only to discuss the measures in Austria about distribution in Europe, but also in the field of combating causes. I think it is very central that we are becoming more active in reducing the causes of escape – those are the real refugees of war, especially the ISIS terror and the crisis in Syria – but that we also become stronger in humanitarian aid and support for local people, not only because it is human right, but also because it makes economic sustainable sense. We know that we can provide 19 people in Turkey and more people in other countries in the region for the money we can provide to a person in Austria for a year. I therefore strongly advocate a system change towards more assistance on the ground, because it is not only human right but also much more sustainable and money is much better invested. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Arbitrator.]] [[Abg. Kogler: For years you have been starved! That's unbearable!]] The second point I would like to address is that I believe that there is also a need for a clear system change to be able to make asylum applications on the spot. We have the situation that, with our system, we continue to support de facto tugs to bring people illegally to Europe, and that only those who have a few thousand euros or dollars available to tugs at the same time are fit enough to survive the journey to Europe. In this respect, I believe that there is a need for a system change, away from the requests within Austria, within Europe, which leads only the fittests to get through and those who also have the money needed to pay a tow, to a system that we select the poorest of the poor and bring them directly to Europe. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] This is the opportunity to support the sick, the weak, the pregnant, the children, the wounded, the elderly best and most surely. That's where we need a system change. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The third point I would like to address is an internal European issue: We also need to change our system so that it is no longer possible for refugees to move from one country to another and choose the country that best suits them or that offers them the best framework conditions. Such a system is not possible, it will lead to a massive overload of countries such as Germany, Sweden and Austria. To that end, there is a need for effective border controls at the external borders of the European Union. If we do not do so, we are endangering our system of a Europe without borders. It needs a system that does not make it possible for a refugee – even if he is fleeing from war and persecution – to travel through several countries and choose his target country individually. If we do, we also get under control of the asylum crisis. I hope that we will do everything possible to find a solution in Austria, but also at European level. The European Union is a project that has already overcome many crises. I am therefore convinced that we will also succeed in finding answers to the current crisis in this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e11488	Next come Mr. Klubobmann Mag. Arbitrators to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e11510	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the European Parliament who, thanks to our initiative, can for the first time not only participate in the debate but also participate! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen. At the same time, I would like to see an apprentice group from Leube GmbH, a cement plant in Salz- burg, who has come with their trainers to visit Parliament and listen to the debate, warmly welcomes and hopes that the young people will have a good impression of Austrian parliamentarianism. [[General condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Millions of people worldwide are fleeing. These figures alone concern us in a number of ways: because of the suffering we experience on television, the media reports, but also on the arrival of refugees in Europe and Austria. They fled from terror, torture, war, misery, and very often from safe death. From this point of view, it is obvious and understandable that the escape to Europe brings the hope of security and peace, while at the same time requiring Europe to meet these challenges positively. In the post-war period, in the 1950s, the states of Europe have developed two fundamental legal instruments – I would like to say that the founding fathers who developed them at the time have passed on to us the responsibility that these fundamental legal documents of humanity still take into account today – namely the 1951 Geneva Convention on Refugees and the 1950 European Convention on Human Rights. These are also the legal basis, which, in my view, is irrevocable legal basis, as well as the fundamental commitment that the right of every individual to asylum is untouchable. On the other hand, however, there are also concerns about the images we see on television, and the question arises as to how we as a society, as a state, as a Europe, as Austria can cope well. I would like to say thank you to all those who have helped in recent weeks that we have managed the inflow as Austria – especially where refugees have arrived – from Traiskirchen to Vienna to all other places – very well, in the sense of the Austrians and also good in the sense of the people who have arrived. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] This wave of refugees must be met technically in such a way that all that is necessary is done – initial care, accommodation and so on. At the same time, we see that the European system no longer works as we imagine it to be. Europe needs common answers. The meeting of the European Interior Ministers yesterday is a first step – whether it was a small or a reasonable step, we will see today after the EU summit. Today, this special summit is taking place, which is also due to the Austrian Chancellor Werner Faymann, because he, together with his Swedish, German and French counterparts, has put pressure on this summit to finally take place. On the other hand, Europe is very hard to answer these questions in a meaningful way. We also see that the world is just as incapable of responding meaningfully – let us just remember that no solution has been found in the form of what it should be, so far on the ground in Syria and Iraq, in the countries of civil war. Reductions in UNHCR and the World Food Programme have even worsened the situation. Let us remember 1945 and the years after the Hungarian crisis in 1956 when Austria received 180,000 Hungarian refugees, or the Prague crisis in 1968, when we received 160,000 refugees. From this point of view, I am also so horrified that these countries cannot now put this historical experience into a positive way of dealing with the situation, but instead they can rebuild barbed wires in Europe. I brought a piece of the iron curtain, which was cut out in 1989. [[The speaker shows a piece of barbed wire]] That was Europe's progress! I I would not like to risk the risk that European ownership or self-breading, as they practice Mr Orbán and others, will endanger this European unity and, after cutting the iron curtain, rebuild it from the other side. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fekter.]] One last word: In an interview with the “Oberösterreichische Nachrichten”, Mr. Strache said that Austria should be fenced. That's what I don't want. This is not an answer to the challenges we face, but it divides Europe back and does not bring the unity we need to meet these problems. We will also continue to work to solve these problems positively.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e11606	Now the Member of the European Parliament is coming to Mag. Karas to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e11627	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm at 56 today. Sometimes during a plenary debate of the National Council at this speaker's desk, and yet it's a very special moment for me, a good new feeling. It is my first speech for 25 years, it is my first speech as a member of the European Parliament. It was already time that day was overdue, and I would like to thank the ÖVP, the SPÖ, the Greens and the NEOS for making this day possible. [[Congratulations on ÖVP, SPÖ and Greens.]] It seems that, after 20 years of EU membership, we have finally arrived in the European Union, but the appearance is as if some of the statements made in the current refugee debate or in the Greek debt debate in a shameful way, but unfortunately also the seat order today. [[Abg. Cute: Because the Karas is allowed to talk now?]] [[Abg. Fekter: We're changing anyway!]] We still have a lot to do, and this together. I would therefore ask you to consider technical and organisational cooperation with the European Parliament, the national and regional parliaments and the citizens when they are rebuilt. Today, ladies and gentlemen, an important step is being taken, a conscious signal: We want to work together, to meet challenges together, to deal with crises, to ensure control and transparency. We do not want to act side by side, not to blame each other, but to talk and act together. Especially in the last few days and hours, we see very dramatically what lack of cooperation in Europe, different rules and standards, national egoisms, lack of determination and an elaborate decision-making mechanism can lead to. We are no longer going along with the previous approaches. European challenges can only be met in European terms, that is, in common. I deliberately avoid the word “solved” because the issue of migration will continue to concern us for several years, if not decades, and change our societies. This is one of the biggest challenges in the history of the European Union. We can do it, but only together. Ladies and gentlemen, the question of the takeover of refugees, the accommodation and the fight against tow is only the tip of the iceberg. Border protection, root control, legal migration opportunities, application centres in crisis regions, uniform asylum and social standards, a common list of safe third countries, new approaches to integration policies, a change in the decision-making mechanism, replacement of unanimity by majority voting, the Council by Senate, we must tackle this overall package. No single measure is sufficient. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Riemer and Mr Hübner.]] I therefore call on you to be determined to understand the current situation as the time of birth of a common European foreign, security and defence policy, a common development, migration and integration policy! The Austrian National Council has the opportunity to become the engine of this development if we feel that we are responsible for the Community's basic principles and provide the necessary financial resources if we demand something from the EU if we do the World Food Programme again when we increase the development aid funds, when we take on a pioneering role in overcoming national egoisms and day-political, often electoral populisms, when we invite – and I come to the conclusion – a Congress in Vienna on the future of Europe and present a draft for the necessary further integration steps. [[Abg. Beautiful: If the caras...!]] [[Abg. Bösch: What have you done in recent years, colleague?]] Ladies and gentlemen, there is no possible future-looking community with a blow. It is not a simple summary, but it is developed by events that create solidarity of action, said Robert Schuman. May 1950. – Such an event is just taking place, we act accordingly!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e11716	Next item is the report by the Member of the European Parliament, Vilimsky. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e11737	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I changed a year ago – as a former colleague of yours in the National Council, I was freshly elected to the European Parliament – with a single motivation, and this motivation was to bring back more skills from Brussels to Austria so that we can decide things. [[Congratulations and bravoruf at the FPÖ.]] I still have in mind the complaints of mandates from ÖVP and SPÖ that much of what is decided here is a Murks but has to be decided because it is an international requirement, and so it was my goal to make at least a modest contribution to bringing back more competences here across all party borders in the interest of the Austrian Federal legislator. And I hope that you – also across the party borders – will deposit your support. Because, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen, Europe has once worked well: Europe was a continent where the countries sought a common future in friendship with each other, at the same time, and with respect through free trade and cooperation. That was the time of the European Community. From the point of view of the central government, one problem has emerged after another. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The problem facing the debate today – the refugee crisis – is just another huge problem, namely the problem of the monetary crisis, the state school crisis, which causes prosperity on our continent to be destroyed, that once again dents and hadders rule that mass unemployment exists. There are many structural errors which are contained in this European integration process, and I believe that one can cooperate in Europe and make it better than now, because it is not working at present. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I address the topic of refugees: I believe that it is undisputed that every person seeking protection and help must, of course, receive this protection and help. The question is only where and how to guarantee this protection. Especially Austria has a tradition of helping people: the Hungarian uprising, the Prague spring, Bosnia in the nineties. – It started for the first time to become a problem because Austria has taken up these people openly, and when the crisis and war were over and Austria has said: Please go home again!, these people have decided to stay there. It was 70,000. The then black and red government even offered them money to go back home. But they didn't want and stayed here. And what is now being presented by the ÖVP or the government with asylum on time is, in my view, the worst deception maneuver at all, because asylum is always only protection on time. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Darmann: That's how it looks!]] They confuse asylum with immigration! For all the masses of people who are now streaming to Europe, you do not care whether they are refugees under the Geneva Convention, whether they are economic migrants, whether they are lucky or whether they are the fighters of the Islamic State – all are admitted, all the rules of the European Union are broken. Today you can keep so many Taferls up to date, it was your Minister of the Interior who was co-responsible for breaking all the rules that flowed in from Hungary masses towards Germany. [[towards ÖVP]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] On the one hand, the two chief responsible for the miscarriage are the German Chancellor Merkel, who said: You can all come, and on the other hand, Chancellor Faymann, who shared this opinion. Only now, where the Germans close the border and the people in Austria hang, does the problem manifest itself – which, from my point of view, should not be at all – only really. [[Abg. Wöginger: They are not too, the boundaries!]] There have already been proposals at Union level: The German Minister of the Interior Schi-ly said that there must be a contact point in North Africa or on the Arabian Peninsula; it was de Maizière, who said last year: Let's make a point of contact in North Africa or on the Arabian Peninsula!; it was your Minister of the Interior Mikl- Leitner, who said a few months ago, we need a continental point of contact. All this just doesn't happen, the people are being let in, and what is manifest now are zinc and haders across Europe. States that are in friendship with each other now stand in enmity at once. States that have had a common history and a common future, such as Austria and Hungary – these are the only ones that still respect European rules – will at one time be offended by social democracy towards Hungary, which is to be rejected: Orbán is the only one who respects this European rule. [[Abg. Darmann: That's it!]] I'll finish. – Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, you can do something about it: There are now elections, two very significant elections – Upper Austria and Vienna – and with a voice for the Freedom Party, it can be underlined that this refugee abuse, as it was caused by both of you, is given a corresponding rejection. [[Abg. Kogler: That's incredible!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e11862	The next item is the report by the European Parliament, Vice-President of the European Parliament, Mrs Mag. Lunacek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e11883	Have a nice day! I am pleased to be back here for the first time after six years, in the Austrian Parliament. I am also glad and thank those four parties who were willing to decide on this right of speech by the Members of the European Union, thus promoting more direct exchange and finally making it possible for us to speak here. I also have to say the following: I hope that a different solution will be possible in the future, because Minister Kurz, who was sitting there over there, has only heard and did not see in his speech. [[Abg. Lopatka: We like to see the short, too!]] It may be. I like to see him sometimes, too. But in a Parliament you also like to see who you are talking to. By the way: I couldn't see your Taferl either – such a ‘ bad’! [[Abg. Lopatka: Now you don't see the short either!]] At any rate, dear ex-colleagues and collegiates: It is good that this debate is taking place here. I would like to say one thing to my previous speaker, Mr Vilimsky: Your group, your party has not yet understood that all of us, all 28 EU Member States and all 28 EU Parliaments and the European Parliament, are Europe, and that the raising of borders that existed at the time of the Iron Curtain should be finally over. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] And if you say that Europe has worked very well before, I ask you: Well, what was that? – That was a Europe with the Iron Curtain! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nice.]] That can no longer be it, and that must not be it anymore, and together in this Europe we will ensure that this does not happen again! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] When yesterday evening's haste news came from the APA that the EU Council of Ministers of the Interior has now actually agreed on the distribution of 120,000 refugees, I have come to the fore: Finally! – Finally, what Jean Monnet said many years ago is that Europe will be created in the crises and that it will be the sum of the solutions that will be found for these crises. This step towards majority voting instead of blockades from individual countries is indeed an important step towards a structure in Europe, where we decide together with majority and do not allow ourselves to be blocked by individual Member States, because only together will there be solutions. And that is also the meaning of solidarity. It's just going together! By the way, solidarity is also enshrined in the primary Treaties - to the Group here. [[towards FPÖ]] That's where it stands... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nice.]] – Listening You know, maybe you haven't heard that yet, probably not! Article 80 of the EU Treaty states that asylum and migration in particular must ensure solidarity and fair sharing of responsibilities, including financial matters. – So this is something we will probably implement now, and I hope that it will continue in this direction too. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But there is the only way – and I agree with Othmar Karas on this point – that it is not without restructuring within the European Union. The Council must no longer impose blockages on us, so to speak, on those whom we decide as the European Parliament. I can't do that anymore. The Council is the governments of the Member States that decide according to national interests and not according to European interests. That should be abolished. The Council belonged to a second parliamentary chamber, which would make sense. But that will not solve the problem now. That's clear, too. Leave You will also address some of the issues which have come here again and again from the EIA, but also from the other political groups here in the House. The statement was made here that we do not want economic refugees; also Mr Kurz and Mr Klubobmann Lopatka said that. They use this term very strongly and do not see that the people who are now fleeing from the war, even though they may have been wealthy, even though they may have had a business, but which is now bombarded, now also need asylum. [[Abg. Lopatka: This is not an economic refugee! That's a misunderstanding!]] – Yes, but the Minister has previously said that you want to choose the poorest of the poor, they want to choose you and not the others. [[Subsequent calls to the ÖVP.]] So: People who have lost their possessions and possessions, even people who want to live a better life elsewhere, and above all a safe life, also need asylum. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Lopatka: From the war zone, economic refugees never come! Please!]] Apart from that, we need to avoid people seeing the only chance to seek asylum, a common European migration policy. We are a continent of immigration, we have always been! And that's why it needs that. Another point, Mr Kurz, is that you think it is now necessary to provide more assistance on the ground. I wonder why have you – and the Austrian People's Party has been for almost 25 years or more, 30 years soon, with responsibility – not increased the funds for development cooperation for a long time? [[President Head gives the bell sign]] [[Abg. Lopatka: Your speaking time is over! We have game rules!]] The funds for UNHCR and UNICEF have been reduced by you in the last two years under your responsibility. You should change that now! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Lopatka: Your speaking time is over!]] At the same time, they should encourage asylum to be applied for at the Austrian embassies and work to ensure that asylum can also be sought at European embassies.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e12052	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e12067	Unfortunately, I cannot stay until the end of this debate because I am going to Belgrade with a delegation from the European Parliament this afternoon to talk to the government and civil society there about the topic of refugees and also about the Balkan route and to visit a refugee centre there. [[Abg. Lopatka: This is an important message!]] I'm sorry, but I like to come back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e12105	Mr Klubobmann is now speaking for Dr. Strolz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e12126	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear citizens! There's a full go today. lerie, I am very happy, even with many young people! Dear Seer on the screens at home! We are negotiating the European and international dimensions of the refugee crisis here at a current European hour. We are doing the current hour of Europe today for the first time with Members of the European Parliament, that is to say, this is a première today. We are, as it were, interfering with these two parliaments in this form, and I think this is great and I am pleased that you are there, all five political groups. I'm glad you're here! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Glavischig-Piesczek.]] – It is the Austrian Parliament, and I wanted to welcome it too. I wanted to greet all five. The question is: Why is there no welcome applause? That's why I'd ask for the five! - Thank you. [[Congratulation with NEOS and ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] – Well, you're a little bit small today! – Look,... [[Congratulations to Mr Cap and Mr Schieder.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] No, I think that's a whole... [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] I do not want to lose sight of this, I think that is a very serious issue, which also leads directly to the heart of this item on the agenda, namely: We must listen to the different levels! We must link the Austrian Parliament with the European Parliament in its work, because we must come to solutions together! And if we ask today the question of the international dimension of this flow of refugees, which is very busy with us in Austria, then we know that the solutions are not in Austria at first, but at both European and international level. What to do? We NEOS have been calling for a European foreign and security policy since the beginning of our movement for three years. We cannot say that we are giving up national borders, and at the same time we are not ready and unable to understand and protect the new external border. Of course, a state territory – including a state community – must understand its external border. And of course we need to know: Who's coming across our border?, and we have to register and control that. But we can't do that today! And, Minister, Mr ÖVP, dear SPÖ, the one who governs this continent, in many national governments, in the European Parliament, in the Commission, I do not know how this could happen to us, namely that we give up national borders – which I support, namely, that the scrollbars are no longer there at Walserberg, in Spielfeld, at Brenner, in Nickelsdorf – that at the same time we did not take the step of going to the external border together and taking responsibility there together! We must welcome people who want to cross this border, but of course also say: Who are you? I want to know, I need to know! But we can't do that today. And we must urgently and quickly repeat this: common foreign and security policy, common border control! What is not achieved under the leadership of Social Democracy and Conservatives in Europe is that we have common reception centres for asylum seekers at the external border. They must be registered at the time of entry into the European Union, and then we must divide them together. So simple is the solution! It's obvious. Why we don't do it, I don't understand. We must tell all those who are illegally crossing the border: This cannot be done, and we will not accept this as a European Union. At the same time, however, we must create legal ways for asylum seekers. We need legal ways for asylum seekers, which cannot fall from heaven. The That is, at present we are forcing them into illegality. We force them into the hands of criminal structures – and that is absurd! From every point of view – whether this is a more human, whether it is a more stately – it is absurd. We need more international help. If, Mr Kurz, Austria makes less money available to UNHCR than, for example, private donors from the United Arab Emirates, then this is, of course, a disgrace and a witness of poverty. And if we do not strengthen the refugee camps in Jordan, Lebanon, Turkey, if we do not support them, these people will go to Europe. That means that Europe must finally understand its responsibility! Europe is not an island! We will be plagued by the events of the world, and therefore we believe NEOS as a glowing European that we must also take on greater responsibility for what is happening. Of course, we should also take care of it – and should have done it already, for that was all foreseeable; Minister, it was foreseeable that this would happen, for four years war has been in Syria – that there are protection zones in Syria. We need them urgently. And we also need flight ban zones. We also need a military capacity in the European Union – Angelika Mlinar mentioned it a year and a half ago; I am already at the end of my speech! – where we guarantee flight ban zones and protection zones. [[President Head gives the bell sign]] All of this needs to be done, and this needs a sincere process for Europe! We're going to take NEOS for that!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e12261	Mr Hagen has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e12282	Mr President. High house! We would not have needed the agenda item 1 of today's agenda following this debate if the government had done its tasks. Mr Lopatka, then we would not have needed Top 1 – and then we would not have been prepared for this refugee flow that we now have. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lopatka.]] They didn't do their tasks! Not only have you done its tasks here in Austria, but also in the European Union. This has to be said clearly, ladies and gentlemen. And because there are European politicians here today, politicians sitting in the European Parliament, I would like to say: There, too, everything fell asleep! [[Abg. Lopatka: Which world do you actually live in?]] – I live in Austria and know what I am talking about – unlike you! It is true what Mr Schieder said earlier when he said that we had received a lot of refugees during the crises in Hungary, in the Czech Republic or in Yugoslavia as a neighbouring country. That's right! But then we have to consider: How can this work now? If there is war in Syria and Iraq, the neighbouring states should take up refugees there. In the culture that prevails there, they feel comfortable, so they should be cared for there, in so-called shelters, as Frank Stronach has always demanded. That would be the right way, ladies and gentlemen: on the spot help these neighbouring countries to cope with this too! That would be the task of the European Union, ladies and gentlemen, that would be reasonable! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Let me now come to the problems we now face with this refugee crisis in Europe. Problem number one is certainly the statement of the German Chancellor Dr. Merkel, who said all Syrians can come to Germany, we all record. That's a big problem. That was an invitation for which Europe was not prepared. That was not agreed in Europe, and I think that was the cardinal mistake in this whole matter. The second problem I would like to address is that of Mrs Merkel's invitation: Mr. Federal Chancellor Faymann then immediately called: Yes, Austria also opens the borders, opens the doors, all of them go on to Germany anyway! That was a trick, ladies and gentlemen, because he did not think far enough, because Germany has the opportunity to close the borders – what we have now experienced. That doesn't have Austria! We do not have the necessary personnel at the police, and we do not have the military that can support this. And that's why we've got this mess right now, and we're gonna sit on it now! The next problem, ladies and gentlemen, has already been raised here, is a European issue, and it is related to Greece. Then: Greece would be responsible for the task of recording, registering and accommodation the refugees and then waiting for them to have asylum or not, depending on whether they are economic refugees or whether they are really refugees in war. At this point I am now telling you something from the European Union or from the Council of Europe: Four and a half years ago, I was in the Council of Europe in the Human Rights Committee, in the Migration Committee, where we talked about the whole situation in connection with the war in Syria, and the Communists from Greece called for Europe to open the doors and let all refugees in without When and But. Now think a little bit: Who is in Greece in the government? – These are the Communists and Mr. Tsipras, whom our Federal Chancellor Faymann saw as the great model in January. And that explains a lot! Then: What did Mr. Tsipras do? – Doors open, everything in Europe! But now we all have the problem in Europe – just not the Greeks! This is the procedure of the Greek Communists, which we have taken over here in Austria, by Mr Faymann. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] – Ladies and gentlemen, this is clearly the wrong way! If you, Mrs Lunacek, have spoken here about the fact that no economic refugees would come or that they would be the small problem, then I may refer you to the issue of the “Vorarlberger Nachrichten” of 21. September 2015, where the Middle East expert Karin Kneissel – who will be known to you – gave you a super interview that really corresponds to reality. And it is quite clear that there are many economic refugees who are out of perspective in the Arab states. These are mainly people between 17 and 25 years of age – if you really look at the flows of refugees, then you will They see this reflected in it – to people who have no perspective in the country for which there are no jobs and who, of course, walk to the promised country of Europe. And that is the point: that in Europe they prefer the great social system – all this says Mrs. Kneissel in this interview, you can read it – and that they expect work, prosperity and a family here. These are the people who come here. These are not necessarily refugees of war, they say, but they already come from crisis areas, so it is difficult to distinguish, but there are many who migrate into this Europe for economic reasons only, and this is not controlled. And there we have not yet spoken of the IS with its snipers, who come with this mass and are ensnared with us. What else can come, that's what we can look at! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e12359	The next speech comes from the Member of the European Parliament. Regner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e12380	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen from the National Council and the European Parliament! Europe's policy is internal policy, and internal policy, as it is discussed here in the National Council, has almost always a European dimension, and this is certainly the case with the issue on the agenda today, namely refugee policy. In this respect, Mr Orbán is absolutely on the way to wood, if he believes that the great refugee crisis is a German problem, that is to say, Mrs Merkel or that we should solve Austrians alone. Orbán is absolutely on the wood road when he goes here and builds corresponding fences. Because fact is: It is a European problem, and only European, solidarity, pragmatic and with responsibility can we solve this problem as well. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Hagen: Merkel has made it a European problem!]] Austria has not become a member of the European Union of Jux and Tollery, but because we want to maintain and develop our social security systems, our social market economy, our values. For this reason, it is necessary to identify European solutions together, and it is not only unwise, but it is also evidence of a complete loss of sense of reality, to believe that through a return to the national level, we could solve these problems. Today we are discussing the refugee crisis, and I would like to thank all those who have given us European Members the opportunity to discuss this problem with national Members. For, as Mrs Lunacek has already said, Article 80 of the EU Treaty states, immigration, asylum and border controls are to be resolved jointly by all Member States. In particular, I would point out that, when it comes to the provision of financial resources, it is also necessary to develop solutions together. In this respect, it is good that we, as European Members, have been discussing these with you in the National Council for years now, which we have been offering solutions and have also agreed quickly. We have responded very quickly in the European Parliament when it came to regulating the distribution of refugees accordingly. We have achieved this very, very quickly and, as a result, we have also given the Ministers of the Interior the opportunity to address this issue more quickly. To sum up, in Europe we need a solution to migration and on the other hand we need to find a common European asylum system. We are working intensively in the European Parliament when it comes to quotas, but also to far-reaching solutions. [[Abg. Bösch: To secure the external borders would be more important!]] That is why I would particularly like to address the safe corridors. [[Abg. Bösch: Security of the external borders! Offer solutions!]] We have to deal with people who then stay on the road, die in the Mediterranean, drown, with people who are inspected in any illegal smuggler buses. [[Abg. New builder: We've known that for a year! The SPÖ-Oberösterreich says you have to understand that, the tugs!]] It is therefore necessary that we ensure safe corridors. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Another problem to be solved is local aid, where the problems are much greater. Millions of refugees, millions of people who are running around their lives, are in Jordan, Lebanon, Turkey, the surrounding countries, where they have been able to save themselves, and there the conditions are sometimes absolutely “underground”, one can only say: no sufficient hygiene, no sufficient medical, no other care, no education for children. Women, young women in these refugee camps are particularly threatened in the evening, in the dark. That is why it is our task, as European Member States, to loosen up financial resources so that we can do more there, on the spot, so that the refugees who have just saved their lives do not continue to wander. It is necessary to make the appropriate resources available in Turkey and Jordan, Lebanon and Iraq; in Iraq it is just one tenth of the funds that would be necessary. This is a European challenge, a European responsibility, that is quite clear. Finally, I would like to refer in particular to the civilian population. In many countries, such as Hungary, it is the government that acts inhumanely, however, it is often the population, the civilian population itself – also in Hungary, but also in many other countries, even in the environment – that acts committedly, bravely. [[Abg. Neubauer: That's not true! It's a nonsense!]] [[Congratulations on Members of the Greens.]] [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] These are housewives, these are older people, these are younger people, these are students, that is the wonderful cross-section of a population that does not care about how to deal with refugees – and it is also our task in the European Parliament, but also in the National Council to create a regulatory framework. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e12497	Next speaker: Mr Amon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e12518	Mr President. Vice-President Lunacek is no longer taking part in the debate. [[Call the Greens – referring to the Bureau – here at the top!]] – Yes, Madam Vice-President! Estimated Members of the European Parliament! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I should like to welcome a group of Mothers from Upper Austria who are following today's debate. Welcome to our house! [[General condolences.]] In addition, at the beginning of my contribution, I would like to extend my warm congratulations to our Mrs Innenminister, who, together with partners yesterday, actually enforced a historic decision, namely a majority decision in the Council of Ministers. Congratulations! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I believe that this is really a paradigm change in European policy. Mr Foreign Minister, it is, as I think, also to thank all the diplomats who have done a great deal in the background that we have made this really important step forward in the European Union. I am therefore already in favour of the contribution of the former colleague and current Member of the European Parliament, Mr Vilimsky, who meant that everything was in order in the European Community. Look You are looking at the entire history of the European Union! Starting with the ECSC, the European Coal and Steel Community, the EEC and the European Community until the last time with the European Union, this has always been a story of problems and challenges which the Community of States has solved and has led to a positive end and a positive future. And we will also succeed in the current challenge, Mr. Vilimsky! In fact, we have a very difficult situation to deal with in Europe and globally. I would like to stress very much what Mr Foreign Minister said: that, of course, the issue of resolving the war situation on the ground is crucial first and foremost, in order to achieve a sustainable solution in these refugee movements. The fact that this is not a short-term issue will be understandable to everyone. And of course it is about fulfilling the tasks we have here in the country and also within the framework of the European Union. I also think it is wrong to go into constant conflict with the Hungarian government, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Nice.]] We are not going into the conflict with those governments, ladies and gentlemen, who voted yesterday against a fair distribution of quotas; these are largely social democratic governments. Let us see the problem and try to solve the problem together – beyond the party political color constellation, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Hungary is facing the situation of the need to protect the EU's external borders. I do not know God to agree with everything the Hungarian government has done, but one could also practice criticism in many other areas. [[Abg. Krainer: Then say it too!]] [[Abg. Krainer: Not very credible what you're doing!]] But, I believe, it is not the time – as a political group in particular does – to break only the negative in front of the curtain, but it is ultimately about the problem solution, on the one hand in the humanitarian sense, but on the other hand also in the sense that the rule of law is to be safeguarded. That, ladies and gentlemen, is also important to me. We cannot solve the problems by always putting the rule of law out of force everywhere. I think we can only deal with all the problems in the sense of the rule of law. In fact, it is true that the number of asylums is also increasing massively in us. We are now expecting about 9 000 requests in September, we had 8 000 last month, 7 000 in the month before. We will therefore also be able to reach the border of acceptance, we will meet this border, and therefore it is so important that we can solve the challenges together and at European level, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Kitzmüller: Look at that!]] I hope that the summit of the European Union will promote a similar constructive outcome to that achieved yesterday by the Ministers for the Interior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e12622	Mr Hübner has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e12687	“Problem solution”, the word we heard, problem-solving competence, who will solve it? All, not just us, but the European Union will solve it, all clear. [[Abg. Lopatka: Now we hear it from you!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fekter.]] – Mrs Colleague, in order to solve a problem, it is important to recognize and address the problem. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is totally denied in the public debate. That is totally denied! [[Abg. Fekter: That's where we're going!]] It is as if we are facing a humanitarian tsunami, through a volcanic explosion, triggered by a sudden war. – This is not even the case in approaches. We face a problem that Europe has been facing for decades – for decades! – urged and which has now become a real disaster through massive intervention by the European Union's institutions. If we are talking about the EU's problem-solving competence, we have to ask ourselves: Who has triggered the current mass migration? – To a good part of EU projects such as “Mare Nostrum”, “Poseidon” and the like, one in the Mediterranean is the huge stream from Black Africa, which has been for years – for years! – is on the go, has opposed: Let's go, we'll save you! – Save is good and right. There is an initial supply, food and food and everything that is necessary. And then what happens? – We make you free of charge to the European Union, to Sicily, Pantelleria, Southern Italy and so on. The message communicated by the European Union: Whoever manages to touch our borders, we first give them access and he can be sure of being taken away again. This is the message. Mr Karas laughs sweet-acid; yes, I believe so. Over the years, this message has spoken throughout the Third World, also in Syria and Iraq, and today, at a time of media communication, the Internet is clear to the world: Whoever comes to Europe, however much and no matter how much he must invest in it, remains there because there is no deportation and because there is still the illusion that everyone who has landed at the borders of the European Union must stay here once. We then examine in a completely inefficient and, I say, ridiculous procedure whether asylum grounds exist. How would you like to determine whether a person who comes from Nigeria or Cameroon is politically persecuted there or can actually show other reasons within the meaning of the Geneva Convention on Refugees to stay in Europe? - You can't! They can only give the status to those who bring the best story and make the least contradictions that are best advised by law, and so the asylum procedure is running. You must also be quite honest and look at the numbers we are talking about here! We are not talking about two million Syrian refugees in the Turkish camps and about a million in the Jordanian who want to come – we are talking about hundreds of millions! Ten years ago, the French made a study in Black Africa and found that about 400 million of the 1.2 billion living there would be transferred to the European Union if possible. NATO has made a study of NATO Defense College. It is expected that around the world today 950 million people are potential immigrants to the European Union. That's what you want to fight by hotspots on the outside border, by hotspots, where you collect people and forcefully split them up? You want to fight this by demarcating and depowering the national states to decide who will become new citizens, who will be established with them by giving anonymous institutions – that is already happening – by giving anonymous institutions of the EU the right to force us to reintegrate immigrants? [[Call the ÖVP: Reply!]] You wonder that some states, even socially democratically led, are resisting?- Oh, my God! Interestingly, these are precisely the states in the East, which are obviously still too short of general media brainwashing and are even more critical and deeper in what is really going on here. [[Abg. Amon: Proposal!]] The solution can only be one: We must have the courage in Europe and say that we are not a country in which anyone who believes he can immigrate can immigrate. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We are a continent that decides for itself, exclusively itself, who can come to this continent. And if there are problems on a continent, wars, persecutions, natural disasters and so on, then they are primarily to be solved on this continent. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This has nothing to do with the situation of 1968 in the Czech Republic or 1956 in Hungary. At that time we were the Turkey of Syria or the Jordan of Syria, there we were the neighbor who took up the threatened neighbors. Today it is about people moving thousands of miles and coming to Europe, across ten, twelve, 15, 20 other states in which there is no war and no persecution, in order to enjoy the admittedly higher standard of living and social standards. This must be said honestly to the people, that is to say, in every debate, when talking about problem-solving, as a basis for argumentation and reflection, and not any pseudo-religious motives: [[President Head gives the bell sign]] Whoever wants to come may come, who is looking for protection, we offer him protection anywhere! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e12806	Now comes Mrs Mag. Korun to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e12843	Mr President. Mr. Foreign Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen in the gallery and in front of the screens! Today is an important day, and I want to start with a very warm welcome and one: I am glad that you are here, to the Members of the European Parliament. [[Abg. Lopatka: The Lunacek is already gone!]] – She has also said why she is gone, Mr Klubobmann, perhaps one could leave these interruptions! That would be appropriate. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Lopatka: That's it, that's a fact-finding!]] Thank you many times for demonstrating such strong will to work together and to work constructively on solutions. – Thank you very much for that. [[Abg. Lopatka: It's hard to work with those away!]] I welcome the Members of the European Parliament once again, also because, in recent weeks, the crisis of responsibility on the subject of asylum has demonstrated very clearly that Europe's internal policy and internal policy is European policy. That is also why today is an important and historic day: because we can better network and exchange here through the right to speak by EU delegates. I would like to continue with something that doesn't come very often from the opposition politicians: I would like to thank most of the EU's Ministers of the Interior and Ministers for what they did yesterday. It is very important that most Ministers of the Interior of our EU have demonstrated the ability and enforceability and will to resolve what happened yesterday, namely the division, the fairer or hopefully fair distribution of 120 000 refugees seeking protection across several European countries, across several EU countries. In my opinion, this is a very important first step towards a common EU asyl policy and shared responsibility. Indeed, it is obvious that not only ten countries are responsible for the protection seekers in the EU, that not ten out of 28 EU countries alone or alone can bear the responsibility in this area, but all EU countries are invited to assume solidarity and joint responsibility. And this common EU asyl policy, this shared responsibility for protection seekers, is feasible. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is feasible because, as previously quoted by Mr Lunacek, the European Union’s Lisbon Treaty provides for a qualified majority to decide and set up a common EU asyl policy. On this path to this shared responsibility, most EU Ministers of the Interior and Ministers of the Interior took a very important step yesterday – once again a warm thank you to her! What we need in the EU is a uniform asylum standard, uniform asylum standards and uniform asylum status. What we need is legal escape routes, because the right to asylum, the right to protection, which exists on paper, remains only on paper, as long as protection seekers – as at present – are not allowed to enter the EU legally. We need the embassy again. This is something that Austria also knew by the year 2003 and was abolished under black and blue. As long as protection seekers do not find legal escape routes, they will unfortunately depend on paid tugs in order to get into protection and apply for protection. I would like to conclude with an equally important point: Help on the spot. This is something that our government politicians and politicians have been very strong in the last few days. Help on the spot! However, if we look at the very specific figures and what our Republic has done in recent years, we note that unfortunately, exactly the opposite of aid on the ground has happened for refugees in the crisis region. I have here an article from the daily “Standard” of 1. On December 1, 2014, almost a year ago, “UNO is setting up hunger aid for 1.7 million Syrian refugees. ” [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] - I'll finish. This article reads among other things: “World Food Programme warns of hunger in many families”, in many refugee families. Ladies and gentlemen, it is overdue to make serious and honest policies, including for our federal government. We need much more help on the ground, and those people who make it to the EU need legal escape routes and decent care. In this sense, I am looking forward to good and better cooperation with the European Parliament. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e12924	The Member of the European Parliament has now been informed of Mrs Mlinar's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e12947	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Spoštovane lady in gospodje! I say it quite clearly, quite openly, very loud: I am very happy to be here today and, as a member of the European Parliament, to be able to speak and answer you. I would like to thank in every way those parties here in the house who have made this possible. That was far-reaching. Thank you very much. I have made myself strong in the European election campaign, and I also have to say that I am positively surprised at how quickly this came into force and how quickly we have done so. If we want to do something, we can do it. Thank you. [[Congratulations with NEOS, SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens.]] It is quite clear – that has already been said, and I would like to stress it once again – that better communication, better cooperation between the European Parliament and the national Parliament is necessary. The subject of today's debate clearly shows this. The topic of refugees, asylum, migration is nothing new. We have been debating this for a long time. Italy and Greece have been under extreme pressure for several years, but until now the will of the governments of the Member States has not really been seen to solve this problem. The result, we see now, is quite clear: Politics is lagging behind! We are limping after at least half a year – if not longer. Half a year ago, in spring, we had several meetings, several debates in the European Parliament on the tragedies in the Mediterranean when several hundred, more than a thousand people drowned. What's happened since then? – The governments of the Member States have met and decided that tow vessels must be combated, in particular the towboats should be destroyed. I was in Lampedusa in May. I met with the mayor on the spot. I met with NGOs. I have met above all with the Italian Coast Guard, which is primarily responsible for the rescue of these people on the high seas. And the very clear answer of these people, who feel the responsibility of this situation every day, was: The destruction of the towboats is just a stupid idea, it doesn't work! – That is why I would like to ask you to make proposals, which are actually feasible and lead to the goal. What are we doing now? – The distribution of 160 000 refugees is a good step, a good first step in the right direction, but the figures we are facing are, of course, completely different. Germany alone expects 800 000 refugees this year. This means that we need a comprehensive solution, a solution to this problem that goes beyond just the first step. A small side shift towards ÖVP because you're back here today Your Taferls have kept up-to-date: The “Taferlgate” of the last days was apparently not enough. I'm asking you: Who will address your demands? – You are in the government, so just put your demands into practice! [[Abg. Tamandl: What are you doing?]] Activities Please do not use your taferls, which only cause hammers in social media! We must manage to be at least two, three steps before the coming events. We must solve problems that we know will come from which we know that they have not been resolved before yesterday, but must be solved tomorrow. We need responsible policies, we don't need witches and we don't need panics! Mr Hübner, the numbers with which you and your friends operate are, of course, beyond. I'd like to know where you got your numbers. Obviously, they had a bad dream. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: He has exactly proved it because he has to listen to you!]] This panic is irresponsible and has nothing to do with reality! Your policy is irresponsible, we do not need it! [[I should like to thank the rapporteurs of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats for their support.]] One more word on this, also on the idea of closing the borders, to fences: Mr. Vilimsky, a “wonderful” idea! - I don't know which planets you live on. We all know it doesn't work! [[Intervocations at the FPÖ and the Abg. Lugar.]] Talk to people who are responsible, and you'll find that's just not feasible. [[Congratulation with NEOS and Greens.]] Please, I want solutions that are also viable. With easy-weared solutions that people sell for stupid – thanks many times, FPÖ, that doesn't interest anyone! – Listen to me, and I'll tell you what the solution is! [[Abg. New builder: Which one do you have?]] The truth is, fences and locked boundaries provide work for the tractors. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] – Thank you for doing more work for the tractors! I don't think that's in your mind, and I'm sure that's not in our sense! [[Abg. New builder: A fool!]] I support what Minister has just said: There must be legal opportunities to apply for asylum. Mr Minister, please, go ahead! Open the Austrian Embassy in Lebanon and allow you to submit asylum applications. [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] We need a common European asylum and migration policy – such a policy must be the objective – and a common foreign and security policy, as Matthias Strolz has already said. [[Call at the FPÖ:Aerials would be good!]] And in order to achieve this, we need a close of the willful at national and international level, the confession that we can and want to do this, and the confidence... [[Abg. Lugar: But now it is enough!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e13081	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e13096	That we have the strength and the courage to do the same. - Hvala lepa.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e13124	Next speaker: Mrs Ing. Dietrich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e13145	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated Minister of Foreign Affairs! Ladies and gentlemen from the European Parliament! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! At the last part of the debate, we have seen how this refugee topic is emotionalized and polarized in Austria. Considering this issue from the international perspective alone is too little. Everyone knows by dealing with other people how much each individual citizen is affected. He is therefore concerned because he is afraid and because he feels the helplessness of the national Parliament, but also the helplessness of the EU. Ladies and gentlemen! This sense of helplessness is quite right, because at present we only see the tip of the iceberg, but do not know – and this has shown the discussion in recent minutes – how big the iceberg is, how many refugees will still come to Austria, how many refugees still want to immigrate to the EU. I'm not saying this averse, I know that asylum is a human right, and every single person sitting in here will stand up for this protection of persecuted people, but we are against – and here the clear demarcation – that economic refugees choose a country and simply migrate there! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] And because the individual states feel this helplessness, the helplessness of the EU in dealing with this huge problem, the individual states react completely differently. While Germany – and there I already limit it – Mrs. Federal Chancellor Merkel says: Come on, come to all of us!, there are also streams there that say exactly the opposite. On the one hand, people are out by attacking asylum homes because they are overwhelmed with the subject matter, on the other hand, there are already CSU politicians who say fences need to be built, such as Manfred Weber. So also Germany, also the rulers behave completely differently, because they are helpless, as we all do on this subject. Let's go to Hungary: Hungary has taken a completely legitimate course of building fences because the EU does not fulfil its obligation to finally secure these external borders. I say to you that we do not have the right to condemn Hungary, because we do not know what will come in the future if the dimension of this issue is increasing when the flows of refugees are increasing. [[Call the SPÖ:Sonder?]] I do not know how many countries in Europe will follow the same path that Hungary has already taken. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This fate of refugees is also closely linked to our own fate. Everyone who has been listening lately knows that Saudi Arabia, for example, has offered Germany to build 250 mosques. This flow of refugees will permanently change Europe, and it will also change Austria if we are unable to take appropriate measures. Ladies and gentlemen! Today we will decide on the right of access. I say to you: not with our voices, because it cannot be the fact that the League is able to intervene that the League can tell the countries, the communities what they have to do. We want social acceptance to be given to the communities and countries behind it and to welcome those refugees who are admitted. We don't want a right of access! We don't want a foresight! We do not want to do this either because we are concerned that this is the first step in a completely different direction, namely in the direction already thought about in Germany: that private property is seized and that the second apartment for refugees needs to be made available for short or long periods of time. We don't want that! [[Congratulations with Team Stronach and FPÖ as well as the Abg. Lintl.]] Mr Amon, you meant that the rule of law must remain in the face of all problems. I wonder how you want or can vote here today, because if you are in favour of the rule of law, then you must be in favour of complying with the laws and cannot take such a decision. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] They're opening a door that's not going on anymore. We won't open this door!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e13226	Mr Cap has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e13247	Perhaps immediately following the previous discussion: The responsibility for paying the price now for us and the refugees, of course, is borne by the postcolonialist Murks of the 20th century. The economic gap of the present age and, of course, the geopolitical conflicts, primarily between Washington and Moscow, are in the background. You have to say that. I am therefore surprised that, although it is known that there are hundreds of thousands of refugees in Jordan, one million in Lebanon, one and a half to two million in Turkey, has not been put to real pressure by the European Union for years, to hold an international conference at which everyone must come to a table so that this question is finally resolved at the root. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ, with representatives of the SPÖ and by Mr Steinbichler and Mr Lintl]] [[Bravoruf at the FPÖ]] There must be everything else secondary! The American Foreign Minister cannot say: With Mr Assad I do not sit down with the Russians only under certain conditions!, others say again: But now we have the question of sanctions, it is not with the Russians!, but there the Russians, the Americans, representatives – and even as a transition – from Assad, Iran – finally, after this deal was made here – have to take place and – my dear ones – the Saudis, the Gulf States. It's cynicism to say: I do not take refugees, but many Muslim refugees come to you, we build you 250 mosques in Germany! That's inconceivable! [[He welcomed SPÖ, ÖVP and FPÖ as well as Mr Steinbichler and Mr Lintl.]] They should finally open their own country! The Gulf States should finally do something. They should finally fight effectively against the individual financiers in their countries who finance the Islamic State or buy it out of oil, which will allow it to finance itself again. These are the backgrounds you need to see in this context, I think. [[Abg. Höbart: Loud liberal positions!]] And I expect the European Council to take steps in this direction, too, so that it really does the crucial things here. [[call to the FPÖ.]] Mr Foreign Minister, I appreciate some of your comments, some of them not, but you have positions, and you also take them. And you said in today’s “Krone” interview that Greece should have been forced to protect the external borders better. In principle, I am also of your opinion – whether this could have been done in the context of the credit debate, I do not know – but the key lies in Turkey. Because we can still send so many officials down, that won't work. We both know from education, Greece has 2 300 islands – how many officials do we want to send to all the islands? Who's to finance this? Of course, Greece is involved, that is true, but the key lies in Turkey. And if they are promised to receive financial resources so that the refugee question can be better solved there, then these financial resources must also come, then something must also be done for that! It is true that both financially and diplomatically, solutions are sought in the crisis regions. But this goes far beyond the question of the financing of refugee camps. This also goes beyond the registration sites that one needs, for example, in Libya, where Mr Sarkozy is responsible for the fact that today this theatre is there and that the refugees are driving away and coming to Europe in the danger of death. We must also say who is responsible for what! [[In the case of SPÖ and FPÖ, members of the ÖVP and the Agg. Steinbichler.]] George W. Bush, for example, is responsible for the Murks in Iraq, where lies were made that war started there – with lies that all turned out to be a lie. And these are now “in the perennials, ” I see nowhere. They say: Ten thousand we can take! - That's ridiculous! They are supposed to sit down at least now and see that they are involved in solving this refugee problem at the root, because many of the refugees have remained in the camps because they want to return anyway because they need a life perspective. Do not believe that you are sitting here once you are a year and a half in such a camp for which the UN has less and less money available and where there is less and less food, and if you have children, someday say: Now I'm going!? - That's logical! Everyone has only one life and no more! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The fact that you are acting accordingly is correct, and that you have to react to it human and human is also correct and necessary. In this context, thanks to civil society, to all the institutions, to the police and all those who have worked for it, not only in Austria. But the solution is not to address the symptoms, but the solution is to try to put on the roots and do everything to prevent one from reaching the threshold, otherwise the EU's value building will be strongly shaken. Geopolitical conflicts will no longer be as easy to resolve as they used to be, because people will respond with migration flows. One will have to act there far beyond that. [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] While a common foreign and security policy is important, one should strive for it, not only will it be the solution, but it will all belong to this table – far beyond Europe – and I expect the European Council to do so today.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e13336	Next speaker: Madam President, I should like to thank you for your support. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e13357	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen from the National Council and the European Parliament! My previous speaker has just addressed the EU's value building. To this end, the Lisbon Reform Treaty states: “The values on which the Union is based are respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities.” – Quotes. These are, I think, also the values on which our sense of life is based and which, although there will of course be an individual, different weighting of these values, are actually questioned by no one. And these are the values that should continue to exist for us and our children as a basis of life. These values will also help to measure problem solutions, of course on the one hand at the moment, but on the other hand also in the long-term perspective. When it comes to the international and European dimension of this refugee crisis today, of course we must also ask ourselves how The treatment of the refugee crisis on the one hand can be reconciled with our humanist tradition, human rights and the preservation of human dignity, on the other hand, however, we are always concerned about how we can secure the life-setting for future generations, as well as I mentioned at the outset. In order not to lose sight of the whole thing, it is quite important, in my view, to see individual fates, but it is at least as important to see the large number of refugees as a whole. Even if it is quite understandable for many people that refugees are on their way because they are hoping for a better life for themselves and their families, it is quite clear on the other hand that Austria, I would even say, is not capable of the European Union, does not have space and capacity for all economic refugees in the world – and I also mean quite clearly economic and not war refugees. Therefore, a very clear yes to a decent and decent handling of refugees and asylum seekers, but also clear signals to those who do not need asylum but who want to migrate. I keep it there – our Mr. Klubobmann has already quoted it today – with Richard von Weizsäcker: "The right to asylum applies to those who need us. And the right of immigration for those we need.” I think Austria has demonstrated in the last, quite challenging weeks that human rights are being respected and people in need are not left alone. It has also shown, however, that the intervening of state institutions, such as the police and the federal army, NGOs, such as the Red Cross and the Caritas, and civil society can also be very, very neatly mastered such logistical and security challenges. However, this must not conceal the fact that, of course, this cannot and must not be a permanent state. That is why national, European and international measures are needed, especially in order to strengthen people's confidence in the competence and capacity of domestic and international policies. This includes, for example, today's already quoted asylum on time. Just as it is a matter of course for us that we ensure the lives of people when they are threatened, and that we support them, it is just as obvious, on the other hand, that this support is bound to this threat in time. It is also clear that the essential point here is the protection of life and that the place of life security cannot be determined primarily by the refugees – this alone is because a fair distribution can not be done either within Austria or within the European Union. We have been calling for this distribution for a long time, and the Ministers of the Interior have decided on this yesterday to thank God by a majority. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I therefore think this is very important, because I believe that it is important in the sense of a refugee policy also accepted by the local population. There is a need for clear rules on the one hand and, of course, a manageable implementation on the other. One of the points on which Austria has been poised for a long time is the common security of the external borders, and there will, of course, not be enough to say: That must be done by one or the other, that is finally their task – no, that must be a common Union task, and we will also have to ensure this with a common budget. One aspect, which is also very important to me, is the fight against causes and on-the-spot assistance, as the Foreign Minister has announced. There needs to be an even stronger EU foreign policy, an involvement in an international approach to terrorism, and of course national and international higher budgets will need to be restored for local people, thus minimizing reasons for escape. And finally, That with the full hardness that a rule of law allows is also done against those who make a business out of the sufferings of the people, namely the tractors, is certainly a matter of course. The number of tractors arrested and finally accused this year has significantly exceeded the number of the previous year. It can be said that it is a challenge, but with the appropriate measures such as asylum on time, on-the-spot measures and so on, this crisis should also be solved with propriety and understanding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e13460	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Haider. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e13482	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! “The European and international dimension of the refugee crisis” is today’s issue, and the problem is already starting in the title. We do not have a refugee crisis, we have a international migration crisis. There, illegal immigrants are specifically associated with the term “Asyl”. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] “Asyl” and “refugee” are very clearly defined terms, exclusively in connection with the protection allowance under the Geneva Refugee Convention 1951. As a protected refugee, only one person is considered, I quote, who is persecuted in their home country by the national authorities for taxatatively listed reasons: Race, religion, nationality, political conviction. Not among these reasons are war, civil war, tribal feuds or even the evil neighbor. Our Asylum Act 2005 also builds on these principles, and § 3 states that someone is to be granted asylum only in the event of the persecution status of the Refugee Convention, and that only in time. This is stated in our asylum law in § 7, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, who obviously do not know this and now all at once talk about “Asyl on time”! That is what is already the law in force. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, these asylum grounds are now virtually unknown to any of these peoples, for for example, the people from Syria were no longer fleeing from de facto safe third countries – Jordan, Lebanon, Turkey. They had protection there, no one had to fear body and life, and the journey takes place exclusively for economic reasons, to the proud social pots in Germany, in Austria, in Sweden. And such people, who leave their native home because of war, civil war or tribal feuds, are referred to as “war refugees”, but do not fall under the Geneva Convention of Refugees, nor are they entitled to asylum. Of course, for humanitarian reasons it is often not possible to postpone and return them, and that is why the EU knows the instrument of subsidiary protection. This was last adopted in a separate directive in 2011, and, apart from three states, all European states have also announced that people cannot be sent back for humanitarian reasons, if they cannot already be granted asylum. That's all right, too. But these provisions of protection, ladies and gentlemen, can only appeal to refugees, and now I quote again when they are “immediately coming from an area where their lives or their freedom (...) were threatened”, i.e. when they arrive at the first safe port, and even if “they immediately report to the authorities”. This is also stated in Article 31 of the Geneva Convention on Refugees, and contrary to the repeated dramatic statements of Mr. Federal Chancellor, who sought to protect us from bombs and persecution, and they could have saved their lives almost only by leaping across the Austrian border from the access of the hares, these people have long enjoyed the protection, in Jordan, Lebanon, in Turkey. Most of them have left their home many years ago, lived in safe third countries and worked there, such as most Afghans and Africans, or they could have found protection in Greece, Macedonia, Serbia and Hungary – all the Contracting States of the Geneva Convention on Refugees. If you are going to continue your journey now, then no longer to protect your life, but the goal is the promising Schlaraffenland Germany, where only the monthly pocket money is higher than the average income at home. The target country is therefore selected under the wrong flag of the asylum seekers for the best social care and the most generous asylum regimes, and thus we are also in the European dimension of the crisis. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The only ones who at least try to comply with the applicable European laws, as prescribed by the Schengen Agreement, Dublin III or also by the Geneva Convention on Refugees, after which everyone who comes into the country that comes into the EU must first register themselves, are Hungary, and these may then be taken by an Austrian Chancellor, Holocaust, who is completely clumsy...
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e13563	Mr Haider, you know that this was a verbal derailment that I cannot accept and tolerate in any way. I give you a call for order and I'll ask you to take it back immediately.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e13589	Mr President. The only one who carried out a verbal derailment was the Federal Chancellor and certainly not I, but that was worth my very first call of order.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e13611	Mr President, you know that this is not an adequate response to a call for order, which is of course for you to do so. I ask you to be moderate. You know, otherwise I would have to use other instruments of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e13631	Mr President, I therefore conclude. The fact that European laws and regulations are being broken in a tour and are not worth the paper they have been written to, we know that at the latest since the Greek financial crisis. I just remember the farce of the no-bailout rule. But that official Austria disregards international law which does not respect the Geneva Convention on Refugees, disregards its own asylum law, and leaves illegal migrants to our territory without registration, and then not only tolerates illegal transport to the Schlaraffenland Germany, but also organized, that is the task of the sovereignty of our state, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] Last sentence: We control 60 000 people every day at the airport Schwechat and pull them out to the underwear, but at the borders this federal government does nothing at all. People will give you the answer: the first time on Sunday in Upper Austria and the next time in two weeks in Vienna. You can rely on that!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e13679	Mrs Windbüchler-Souschill – Mr President, I would like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e13701	Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The derailments of the Freedom Party are becoming more and more annoyed and are actually so last-class that I actually lack the words of indignation in this regard. If the Federal Chancellor actually shows backbone and says what is within the European Union – new walls are the last thing that can exist in the European Union – then from my point of view, it is simply last-class to represent this backbone so verbally. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Backbone? That's not backbone!]] [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] It is a question of responsibility, and it is also about the issue of the international community, especially in the global and European dimension of this issue. The international community of states has seen more than four years ago of the war in Syria, how the military attacks and military attacks against the civilian population and demonstrators have grown larger and more violent, and that, as early as 2012, the UN and the Special Envoy Kofi Annan have already broken down solutions to resolve the conflict, the international community has simply accepted this way, because the dispute between the vetomen in the Security Council then made it impossible for the UN and Kofi Annan to implement political solutions for peace and stability three years ago. Then the international community of states saw how the war became a proxy war in Syria. We shall also see the introduction of arms into the crisis region by the arms industry, arms exports and arms exports. Much money is being implemented internationally, the international community is looking back and the humanitarian crisis is increasing. In the refugee camps, in the refugee camps around Syria, crowds of people live under catastrophic conditions: no food, no clean water, no form of future perspective. No one has to ask himself here, and nobody has to wonder why people – parents, fathers, mothers with their children – stop their last tents or the last tent that was provided to them and try to live a better life somewhere else in this world. The question of whether war refugees or economic refugees is a bad question in this debate from my point of view, because if a Syrian refugee has to flee Syria for reasons of war, then his family ends up in a refugee camp around Syria and has nothing to live there, I think that the debate between economic refugees and war refugees must be stopped and seen how people can survive well and safely. [[Abg. Steinbichler: What is the right question?]] The crisis of responsibility continues. Indeed, the EU is in itself invited to act in the values of fundamental rights, in the values of human rights. No matter how difficult it is, as we all know, to master the situation in Hungary, even with the Hungarian external border, I believe that the construction of a fence, a barbed wire fence, a new wall, and now also the idea of Hungary, is to say that we are also doing this in the direction of the European partner, the completely wrong way. On Monday, Hungary's Parliament implemented stronger powers of the army. We should be able to use arms to secure the border against refugees. This is a next disastrous step within the European Union, and this must finally end. I believe that there are clear and more strong words in the European Union and the Commission in favour of Viktor Orbán and Hungary, but also within the conservative European family, for Viktor Orbán and his party are part of the European People's Party, and I believe that there is also a need for a clearer word and a clear no on this restrictive procedure and on these new walls in Europe. The ÖVP was – was! – always a party of European thought. That's over. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hoefinger.]] What can Austria actually do now, and what measures can actually be implemented? – Mild the suffering, help on the ground. It should be said once more that Sebastian Kurz since he took office as Foreign Minister, has tried to secure and expand development cooperation. It hasn't succeeded yet. [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] For information only: Development cooperation has to do not only with bilateral project work but also with multilateral cooperation, and it should be safeguarded. [[Interference of Federal Minister Kurz.]] The fact that the foreign disaster fund will be upgraded to €20 million and budgeted from 2016 on is a good step that I have never denied, but it is also important that humanitarian aid is also made sustainable for the refugees of war.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e13791	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e13812	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! In the debate, a few speakers tried to keep the subject groups of asylum in particular and immigration in general a little bit apart, but this has not been achieved throughout my perception. I would also like to make an additional contribution to this, because there is a little more separation in it. We do not only have European access to the issue of how we deal with asylum seekers, we do not have European access to the subject of migration at all. For what reason this migration is taking place, it should be said for the time being. When we look at why people are moving, Mrs Lunacek also said in her contribution: There are also people who want to improve economically, and of course there are people who are rightly seeking protection. And it must be allowed to make a difference. [[We welcome the NEOS and Mr El Habbassi and Mr Strache.]] But that also means that where a person has the right to file an asylum application at least once, and the right to be carefully examined must not be reduced. One must not pour the child out with the bath and say that there are also people who do not have the right to asylum – logically, people make requests, some rightly, some wrong. And here the liberals are clearly too sharp for me in the way they go over there, while others are far too generous and keep the welcome sign high, without differentiating who comes now and whether all of them come from the same motives that are also legally justified. [[Abg. Höbart: Who the NEOS?]] But you can also make an active contribution as a country, regardless of who wants to come here, to control immigration, and in this area, not only is Europe in general bad, there is Austria in particular bad. I would like to take an example: the implementation of the EU Blue Card, if a third-country national wants to have a permanent right to work in an EU country. If you want to do this in Germany, you have to prove an annual income of €48 000 and a few squeakts, in France €52 000, but in Austria €57 400, i.e. almost 20 percent more than in Germany. And if you want good people, I wonder, How many people – immigrants are often young – earn at an early age, for example at 30, 57,000 euros a year? – This is a totally non-worldly amount that Austrians want to raise for people looking for work, social security contributions, pay wage tax! The Canadians, whose country is known as the country of immigration, are doing much more targeted work, not only looking at whether formal qualifications are given, but also whether a person is contributing to society, whether he has learned something and is able to integrate. As a result, many academics come to Canada, but they do not work at all in their specific academic profession, which has previously proved that they do a performance that they have made a training, but they work up in Canada from below. The Canadians say: Yes, that's "selfish", what we're doing, that's self-interest, but they also know that they have to do it so that the country can benefit from immigration. The Swedish do not make it similar, there is also a kind of “express entry” for people who have a job. Those who can prove a job in the country may come, and in Sweden you do not have to prove €57 000, but 13 000 Swedish crowns per month – that is €1 400 you have to earn per month, in Sweden where the cost of living is different – and if you have a job, you can come. We in Austria build up obstacles in the jobs and are generous in other categories, which means that in Canada and Denmark, for example, the migration by family combination is twice as high as the move due to work, in Austria, however, the migration by family combination is eight times as high as that due to work. We are therefore attracting people for very different reasons from the countries that are targeted at immigration. This calls for active action on our part, which calls for the courage to say no, which calls for the courage to distinguish between different types of immigration. However, there is no blind rushing against “the loins”, and there is no unreflected welcome, but there the courage helps to decide.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e13866	The next item is Mrs Lintl's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e13887	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen from the European Parliament! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! What you have presented to us today as a system change, Mr Minister, and the ÖVP fully intends to sell asylum as an action plan, is actually a reaction plan, because after months of or many years of inactivity, you finally meet the demands of those who have recognized the extent of refugee problems for a long time. I urge you to waste valuable time, and therefore ask what has prevented you from asserting your influence in the coalition and at EU level, in order to achieve international action to curb the causes of escape, in order to decide on the military fight against the IS terrorists under UN mandate, in order to strengthen the EU's external borders, in order to achieve, for a long time, a fair distribution of refugees by quotas in order to provide more financial assistance to the UNHCR refugee camps in the Middle East, as effective assistance on the ground – I have been calling for this for a year and a half – in order to effectively and with sufficient criminal force to implement the already existing asylum law, which already includes asylum on time, to implement a reasonable migration plan for Austria, which provides for only legal, ordered migration. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler]] [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Wheeler]] [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] But all of your proposals for solutions are too late, and the sufferers are the Austrians who have to bear the costs, not just the financial costs. This is really the big accusation to this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e13944	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[12:42:01]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e13966	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e14187	The following templates have also been received: Treaty with the Czech Republic amending and supplementing the Treaty between the Republic of Austria and the Czech Republic on police cooperation and the second supplement to the European Convention of 20 June 1970 on the Functioning of the European Union (OJ L 311, 30.12.1989, p. 1). On 4 April 1959, the Court of Justice of the European Communities referred to the Court of First Instance for a preliminary ruling a question on the interpretation of Article 107(1) of the EC Treaty. Further: The fourth Additional Protocol to the European Extradition Convention (785 of the Supplements) and the Agreement on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the European Economic Area, including the Final Act, including those attached to them (784 of the Supplements). After consultation with the members of the Presidential Conference, I propose, in accordance with Article 28a of the Rules of Procedure, to refrain from assigning these items to committees and to take them into account when drawing up the agendas of the next meetings. On the other hand, is there any objection? – That’s not the case; then we’ll proceed like that. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e14224	The debate on points 1 and 2, 5 and 6, 7 and 8, 9 and 10, 11 and 12 and 14 and 15 of the agenda is proposed. On the other hand, is there any objection? – This is not the case; then this is considered to be decided. [[12:46:01]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e14249	According to § 93 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, which requested the written entry into the agenda before the entry into force of this Agreement. President. — The next item is the report (Doc. Under the Rules of Procedure, the urgent question will be carried out at least three hours after receipt of the agenda, i.e. at 3:45 p.m. [[12:46:50]] Requests for deadlines
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e14275	I would also like to say that Mrs Magistrate. Meinl-Reisinger has requested that the Constitutional Committee report on the motion for a resolution 840/A by Mr Mag. Meinl-Reisinger and colleagues concerning a Federal Constitutional Act amending the Federal Constitutional Act, a period of time until 11. ==References== In addition, this is the case of five delegates, according to § 43 para. 3 the request made by the Rules of Procedure to hold a brief debate on this request for a time limit. Since the urgent debate was called for at today's sitting, the brief debate just mentioned will take place following the urgent debate. The vote on the request for a deadline will take place after the end of this debate. Finally, I would like to say that Mrs Kitzmüller has requested that the Family Committee report on Mr Kitzmüller's motion for a resolution (1224 A(E)) by Mr Kitzmüller, colleagues, on the adaptation of family allowances for children abroad to the respective cost of living, be limited to 13. ==References== This request will be put to the vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure after the end of the negotiations. Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e14317	A consensus was reached between the members of the presidential conference on the duration of the debates: Accordingly, a day block time of 6 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ and ÖVP per 81 minutes, FPÖ 75 minutes, Green 63 minutes, NEOS and STRONACH per 33 minutes. According to § 57 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure shall be the speaking time for the entire agenda of those Members who do not belong to a club within the framework of this Decision per 17 minutes. In addition, the speaking time of Members who do not belong to a club is limited to 5 minutes per debate. We shall now proceed to the vote on the speaking time just presented. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this proposal to be a sign. – That is unanimously decided. [[12:47:53]] 1. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 1295/A by Mr Mag. Andreas Schieder, Dr. Reinhold Lopatka, Dr. Eva Glavischnig-Piesczek, Kol- Members concerning a Federal Constitutional Act on the accommodation and distribution of aliens in need of assistance and protection (792 d.b.) 2. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 1296/A by Mr Otto Pendl, Mr Werner Amon, Mr MBA, Mr Enrights, on a Federal Act amending the Foreign Police Act 2005 (793 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e14399	We now come to points 1 and 2 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There has been no oral reporting, so we are going into the debate. As First of all, Mr Klubobmann is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e14426	Mr President. Appreciate members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, with the Constitutional majority of SPÖ and ÖVP, a right of entry is to be adopted with green support – vis-à-vis the countries and communities – with the result that a decision is taken against all parliamentary uses. This is not a good deal to be done here. This is a poverty testimonie for the government and also a symbol of their helplessness on the one hand, but also their failure on the other, because instead of developing sensible and viable solutions, you are loading off the burden of your failure, your inability, your abuse of office, your violations of law on the countries, communities and citizens, and that's just...
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e14452	Mr Strache, you know, the accusation of abuse of office and the violation of law, these are accusations of a criminal nature, I cannot let that happen. I need to give you a call for order. I'm asking you to be moderate.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e14485	You know we're taking a ministerial loan. The free expression of opinion will probably still be allowed here and, like a possible abuse that we see, to address and discuss. I do not think that you, Mr President, are doing this very well. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We see abuse here and will also discuss it. So there are no bans on discussion, otherwise I would have to realize, more than critically, that there is an opinional dictatorship here. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I am therefore saying that abuses and misdevelopments exist in different legal areas, otherwise the European Union would not now complain of Austria and other countries for breaking the law. That means it's all on the table. I wonder when, on the other hand, the failure of the EU institutions and the errors there are being sued by the Austrian side. This would also be a necessary step in the failure of the institutions of the European Union. We are experiencing a development here, in which a grotesque – grotesque! – the absence of legal obligations, where, following the failure of the Schengen borders, the European Union has completely abandoned the countries of the European Union at the external borders of this crisis, and those who comply with the EU's laws – that is, security of the external borders, Dublin regulation or also foreign police laws – such as Hungary, also face a bashing and immense abuse. So you can only wonder more. I am ashamed of the statements made by Mr Faymann to Hungary and Orbán. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This was really last-class, and this is not in the sense of neighbourly relations, as one should seek cooperation, seek common ways and find common ways to achieve this emergency. [[Abg. Arbitrator: That was right...!]] - No, I'm telling you quite openly: Respect for Prime Minister Orbán! He protects his own population from illegal mass immigration – unlike Faymann and you, for there are no border controls to date! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] To this day we experience a farce that plays every day. There are no border controls, no passport controls, no registration of those masses that come to us today in the sense of modern international migration; they go over countless safe countries and do not assert their legal rights there within the meaning of the Dublin laws, i.e. they do not apply for asylum. These countries have no interest in living in Dublin, but they are sending people through their country. We allow this and then we experience a social-Romantic invitation and welcome policy à la Merkel and Faymann, saying: Come on, business refugees all over the world! – although there is no human right to prosperity. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is exactly the crucial point, and the accusation must be made to you: You do not control, you do not differentiate, you do not create insecurity, because you do not deliberately distinguish between persecuted people in the sense of the Geneva Convention – who need our full protection and our full help – and those who come from economic motives or perhaps even more tragic motives, such as intelligence services from England, France, Russia, to the Holy Father, who have been warned: that radical Islamists are being added to Europe in addition. These are dangerous developments. And now you are dealing with the right of entry – after your failure, after your failure, you who have not guaranteed the legitimate interests of protection of the Austrian population within the meaning of the laws and have ultimately failed here and are living Management by Chaos – and are trying to transfer this burden to the communities with the constitutional change, with the right of entry and forced allocations of asylum seekers. That's not all right. Not only is federalism being trampled with feet, but there you have outlawed laws without legitimacy, and in the end you have not acted correctly in the area of democracy. And that just belongs to the name. This is a responsible way of dealing, which you now download to the communities. The citizens will remember this, and the citizens will answer it accordingly. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] In this question, it would be precisely to ensure that direct democracy is finally implemented in the sense of binding referendums, as the constitutional right of people in the country, as the constitutional right of citizens – and not as a bitter! [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] That would be exactly the nail sample now. And it is precisely here in the House that we repeatedly experience that SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens are afraid of the population, are not willing to ensure direct democracy as a constitutional right for the population as well. For decades, constitutional taboos are simply being broken, the municipal autonomy, which is a cornerstone of the Austrian constitution, is then simply destroyed – that doesn't matter. Of course, it would also be important – as mentioned earlier – to remind you of compliance with the Dublin directives. You have put this out of power – and then you go here with placebo decisions, assistance of the federal army at the borders, talk of border controls that are not in de facto, because no passports are controlled and no registration is made. You cannot rightly answer today how many people have already come to Austria in the sense of illegal immigration according to our foreign police laws, how many have gone further or yet dived here somewhere. You cannot even answer this question. This is in the truest sense of the word dangerous, irresponsible what is being lived there! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In reality, we need a right of entry towards Brussels, not vice versa. There we need a right of entry, because if the EU institutions fail completely and so our citizens get into a situation in which they experience uncertainty and where an exceptional state and an emergency situation is triggered, then of course you have to look for responsibility with this federal government. Why is it not willing to finally catch up with this faulty mechanism at least nationally and to prevent the worst? The way in which the government deals with asylum is becoming increasingly grotesque and unhelpful. The current discussion on asylum on time alone shows this once again. Asylum is basically when you read the Geneva Convention, protection on time. They ask themselves: What's going to be debated? – Again such a placebo discussion, which one must call as farce. Apparently, the members of the government don't even know this law, and probably, quite certainly, they haven't lived and implemented it in the past either – and now they think they've invented something new, but that's actually already legalized and only had to be implemented. This shows, apparently in the run-up to elections – and I also took this from the interview with Foreign Minister Kurz in the “Kronen Zeitung” – that the sloth becomes either diligent and then takes over the demands of the Freedom Party, which one has strictly rejected for years before, or just begins to conduct placebo discussions, hoping that the worst can still be done in the coming country elections. But that's all transparent. Since time immemorial, we have always called for the implementation of this sincere legal formulation of asylum to be done at the moment that what we miss is actually done. We do not therefore need a change of law, but we need an interior minister who finally fills and implements this law. That would be necessary. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If SPÖ and ÖVP only want to review the criteria for asylum after three years, this is also complete dispassion. We are always talking about rapid examinations – Switzerland has rapid procedures within 48 hours, in which first findings are made – rapid asylum procedures that are necessary – well, then you should also check annually whether asylum is still given or not, and not every three years. So here we are exactly again in the situation that a timely review of asylum status is taking place and that should not, as you plan, be pushed back to the long bank. If the review shows that it is someone who has come from economic considerations – by the way, in 2013 and 2014, the independent Austrian asylum courts have found that 70 percent are not asylum-related people, and they have also been legally rejected; this is not a liberal court decision, but that has been established by independent Austrian courts – this already shows a lot. And then one misses the implementation of what is also provided for in the laws, namely the consistent deterrence and the creation of foreign countries of those legally rejected asylum seekers. There has also been a failure of the Federal Government for years. They seem to try again and again to cover one or another in their own failure, even the EU quota is such a ridiculous debate. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] We are now experiencing people coming across countless safe countries – European countries; Greece has been abandoned, Croatia has failed to secure the external borders, Hungary and others – but these people do not want to be there. They do not want to assert their right to claim it, they do not apply for asylum, because they have the right to choose which destination they can continue to go on and come unhindered without passport checks and registration, because the German and Austrian Governments have acted irresponsibly there. That's where you're wondering: How do you want to sell people the quota at all if people have no interest in being sent back to these countries, where they have avoided any asylum applications? - It doesn't work! If you are finally really political, you have to make different decisions and measures! If one speaks of 120,000 people who are to be divided, this number is in itself ridiculous – for more than 1 million people who have already landed in Germany. It can be assumed that by the end of the year, we will certainly have over 80 000, if not 120 000 people in the country, if we continue to make such irrational border controls. That shows a lot. That's just the official numbers we hear there. Last weekend alone, more than 21,000 people are expected to come to Austria. These are official numbers, I say, well noticed, because if you don't register people, how do you want to confirm these numbers then? That's so thumb times pi, and that's of course not worthy of a rule of law. The citizen has a right to comply with laws and not to put them out of force. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is the essence of a state which takes itself seriously and has the obligation and responsibility to ultimately protect the citizens of its country, its citizens, their freedom, but also their modest prosperity. We are also fighting poverty problems in Austria at all corners: 1.2 million people at the poverty line, single mothers who are abandoned with their children, are saved everywhere. In cases of care, in stages 1 and 2, cuts have been made, there is the difficulty of getting a care level at all, even though it is urgently needed as a disabled and in need of care. At all corners and ends, we experience the failure and failure of our own poverty problems and misdevelopments in the country – and then we experience that all the laws are put out of force at once and people are told: We'll do that! No one opens up what consequences this will have, not only in terms of security policy, but above all in terms of cost-political terms, such as, when it comes to jobs, in terms of record unemployment that we have, how it is about integration and what else can happen to us. Then you ask yourself: What is the next plan, when is the special asyl tax, when is the solidarity asyl tax? – Only after the country elections in Upper Austria and Vienna will one probably get out of it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wenninger.]] It is said that three asylum tax increases are already being worked hard in the Ministry of Finance, which are to be necessary, namely in the area of sales tax increases, and we are considering how I am supposed to start in the area of second residences, and we are saying: Either make the second residence available or buy with a tax! [[Abg. Lopatka: So...!]] It is up to you to remember to access the savings of the Austrians. [[Abg. Lopatka: Ah go!]] – I hear that such calculations are already taking place in the Ministry of Finance. You should now be honest with the debate and not overrun the public after the elections with these tax increases, which would be an honest access. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I therefore say that we are calling for a referendum. [[Abg. Lopatka: You don't have that...!]] Unfortunately, not only do SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens obviously have no respect in some areas, but they are afraid of letting them decide. That's not fair. It would be time for direct democracy. We have an evaluation of this direct democracy in Switzerland for over a hundred years. It is a complement to parliamentary democracy. No more than 1 per cent of all the laws that are passed here can then be corrected in the context of binding referendums, which will also be able to force the population. This would be an important access to finally overcome these Party Secretariat sideologists who permanently believe they can push their own population to the eye of decisions that are diametrically directed against the vast majority of their own population.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e14666	Mr Klubobmann Mag is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Arbitrator. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e14687	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen in the house! What we are discussing today is far from what Mr Strache has been talking about, because it is simply about the fact that those people who come to Austria and seek asylum – not economic refugees, but people who are seeking asylum because they are personally persecuted for the reasons set out in the Geneva Refugee Convention – are also accommodated in Austria. So far, we have experienced the problem – and we have experienced this over the summer – that the majority of the Austrian federal states have not complied with the agreement that has been reached between the nine federal states and the federal government. It is a matter of finding a solution that these people will be housed decently. By the way, it is the same issue that is being discussed today at European level: how to accommodate these people in the European countries, so that each country, in accordance with its economic power, its population size and geographical size, also takes on its fair share. It is no longer and no less so in this Constitutional Act. It has already given rise to a good deal of its effect insofar as seven out of nine Austrian states now take over their commitment to the quota scale. The two federal states, which have not yet done so, will certainly work to achieve this soon. That is to say, this Constitutional Law for a fair division, which at the same time also aims to ensure that people can quickly be accommodated in a decent and winter festival, is a law that only has to act as Ultima Ratio, as the last option; before that, the call to the federal states and also to the municipalities to take over their duties. If a federal state has taken over its duties, then this law does not threaten to intervene by the Ministry of the Interior, because if one wants to say so, one is in the Leo and has done his job anyway. [[Abg. Glavischig-Piesczek: In Leo?]] It is also true that the federal states and the municipalities are motivated to carry out their task on their own initiative. In the meantime, it is true that much more Austrian communities have accommodated refugees than before, that is, there is also a lot in motion. Today, we will also make an amendment which makes it clear once again that it is not about criminalising mayors, but that it is about providing sufficient areas and accommodation on its own initiative in the municipalities and only if the country or community has not taken over its shares can the Ministry of the Interior also intervene. But it is also a law that gives the Minister of the Interior just where he has not been acting now the possibility to intervene, which has been discussed and demanded for so long to create accommodation. I am sure that with the administrative decision to install Mr Christian Konrad as Federal Representative, a lot has also been significantly improved technically, so that this task also succeeds. In this sense, I think it is a very sensible law, which should also establish within Austria what we demand from the other European countries at European level among the federal states.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e14724	Mr Klubobmann Ing. Lugar. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e14745	High house! If you look at the debate and, above all, the events of the last few weeks, you think reason has been abolished. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Right now?]] Now my favorite socialist, Mr Cap, has said some true words. It was very, very brave that he attacked the Federal Chancellor in this way, saying that we must see where the responsibility lies. Yes, that is true, the Federal Chancellor has the responsibility. He has the responsibility for putting aside all the laws that we have, that we leave everyone in the country with every reason, without controlling it, without checking whether he can show reasons for escape at all, and without complying with the rules in force in the EU, for which we are now being sued. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] You have to let that break on your tongue! That is to say, first of all, we have broken the rules and now there is a infringement procedure. Of course, Mr Cap's criticism is absolutely appropriate. Yes, the Federal Chancellor is responsible for what happened. But let's look back. Let us look back at why the Chancellor of the Federal Republic has shown this guilty behaviour why he has done this. The whole thing started when Mrs Merkel joined forces with some representatives of the German industry and said: We need more labour; we have a problem, because at the latest in five years, the skilled workers are going out! Then one has recognized or has come to realize that among the Syrian refugees there are indeed top-trained forces. And then soon the idea was born: Why do we not simply redirect these flows of refugees, which are now not so far into the country because of the rules in force? Among the many Syrian refugees, there are certainly a few pearls that we can use in the German industry. Although it may be that we have to import thousands in order to be able to employ perhaps hundreds, the industry has never thought that the rest will then remain in the social system. That is why one has gone here and has expressed this invitation, which has been consciously chosen. One has only made the mistake of not even initiating one's own coalition partner and one's own party. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] You forgot. That is also the reason why criticism comes from its own series. But this invitation has never been revoked. Did you know? – Mrs Merkel has expressed the invitation – all who come receive asylum, all who are allowed to stay! – and since then this invitation has never been revoked. The border controls, which are supposed to be done, only make sense of slowing immigration a little more quickly and better in Germany and distributing people in a beautiful way, just as we want to distribute here. That is the same principle. That means, without knowing whether they can stay at all, we distribute them to all of Austria. I'll tell you one thing: It doesn't make any sense to distribute. What we would need is protection zones on site; then we do not need to distribute them in Austria at all. What you're doing is: They distribute refugees where you don't even know if they can stay at all, and that's the problem. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and the FPÖ representatives.]] It may, of course, be that Mr Faymann does what Mrs Merkel wants and participates in this game. I don't even know if he was inaugurated. I just know he's in. Maybe it's because: Mrs Merkel once said – of course behind the back of Faymann – that he does not come in with any opinion and goes out with my opinion. Maybe it was the same in this case. Perhaps he had no opinion on this and just did what Mrs. Merkel wanted. It is crucial that: We now have this breach of justice on the table; Mr Faymann was guilty of this. Thank you, Mr Cap, for addressing this! Thank you for addressing the true culprits here in Parliament – and so bravely you were today! Mr Faymann is guilty of this mistake, and that is why he has to answer here. It is not just in this infringement procedure that it has to answer to all the others who want to comply with rules. He has broken all the rules on whether these were the Dublin rules, the Schengen Agreement, the Geneva Convention on Refugees, too, was trampled on. All this Faymann did. Faymann must not only be responsible to those who think it is honest and who also want law and order in this European Union, no, he must also answer the 37,000 homeless in Austria. These are not refugees, these are people who became homeless in Austria, in our social system – 37,000 people. The people who are homeless in Austria, who don't care for anyone at all, don't even get the secluded tents, if one can no longer think of living in tents for refugees; not even they get them to set up the tent under the bridge. Unfortunately, that is a fact. There has been a situation where an homeless person has been out of control of these outings. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig.]] And only when the newspaper picked up that the police prevented homeless people from getting food from these refugees did they get something. Mr Faymann must also be responsible to those people, and I am not yet talking about the quarter of a million people who cannot even heat in Austria because they cannot afford it. That's a fact. I don't want to play one against the other, not at all. Everyone who needs protection should have protection. But in Austria we also have quite a lot of people who need protection, and nobody cares about it. On the other hand, we let people know nothing about, whether they need protection or whether they deserve protection, or whether they are not terrorists or other war criminals. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wenninger.]] That would also be possible, even that has already been mentioned. Nobody's interested in that. I do not want to talk about the health aspect at all. If we are now distributing 5,000 refugee children who have not been vaccinated against smallpox or other people in schools, I do not want to talk about what is happening to us or anything else. These are all things we need to turn on the reason again. We have to deal with this problem properly, but what I see now is not reasonable. Thank you very much, Mr Cap, for finally addressing this!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e14815	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Gerstl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e14836	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! Extraordinary situations require extraordinary measures, and I believe that the whole debate must also be seen in the light of that. This has not yet occurred in the Second Republic that within a month more than 100,000 people have passed the Austrian border and left it in a few hours. [[Call to the FPÖ: That the Federal Government has failed in this way!]] Since World War II, over 60 million people worldwide have not been on the run. The fact that regulations we are currently having are not based on them, I believe, understands by itself. No one could foresee such a situation to this extent, even though the Minister of the Interior pointed out a year ago that we are facing a new international migration, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Lugar:... don't you foresee?- Oh, my God!]] [[Call to the FPÖ: This is a contradiction!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I remember Mr Strache, who said here when we discussed in the summer when the tents were there: The Federal Government can't do it. – Now we create a solution, we create a solution that allows no one to be homeless anymore, which allows everyone to have a [[Abg. Darmann: Which one?]] The roof has over the head before the winter arrives. Ladies and gentlemen, this is actually what you have called for from all of us who are responsible here. But not only are we government parties responsible, the whole Parliament bears the responsibility. I would also like to thank all those who agree to this law today for responding to the crisis situation and saying: New solutions are needed. That is why we want to adopt a Constitutional Act today to ensure that everyone who needs a place in basic care gets accommodation. Basic care means – in order to keep it apart – that at this time it is examined whether there is an asylum ground or not. And we are in a rule of law, where every asylum seeker has a right to carry out these procedures. If you do not want to admit the accommodation, then object It contradicts the rule of law, contradicts the Geneva Convention on Refugees and contradicts all measures that people can actually expect. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of SPÖ and Greens.]] [[Call at the FPÖ: It does especially hurt!]] If at the end of the procedure it finds that he receives asylum, then the next phase will only enter into force. If he does not receive asylum, then he also has to leave this country, and as in the past, the people who are not granted asylum will also be expelled from Austria. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Go!]] It is not to be judged whether this is positive or negative, that is a legal order, and I want us to really discuss it calmly, ladies and gentlemen. Austrians have done great things in the last few weeks. In this debate, I think I should also like to thank all the NGOs, all the charitative organizations and, above all, the many people who have just traveled from today to tomorrow, from one hour to the other to the West Railway Station, to the main railway station, to Nickelsdorf and in many other places and have provided help there. [[I should like to thank the rapporteurs of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats for their support.]] It is also necessary to say thank you to the police who have worked to an extent and supported that I find no words for it. The police have done extraordinary things, and in the last few days also the Austrian federal army. Mein Ladies and gentlemen, this creates a structure that always accompanies us in the field of tension, that is, on the one hand the right of asylum, as universal human rights, and on the other hand an orderly constitutional state. We must always look at both in our discussion. On the one hand, we must ensure universal human rights and on the other hand ensure the three key elements of the state – first protection of the state territory, second protection of its own population and third safeguarding of state power. [[Call the FPÖ:... failed!]] [[Abg. Kassinger: All three you don't have under control!]] These are three elements that are as important as protecting universal human rights. In this area of tension, we need to have a debate on the protection of democracy and the protection of Europe as it is always about two things: It is not only about family ethics, ladies and gentlemen, it is also about the ethics of responsibility! [[Abg. Darmann: Nice words that the people can't lose!]] Both points are equally important. We must support the people who need help and, on the other hand, consider the consequences when so many people leave their country or come to our country. In this regard, our Foreign Minister has already made concrete proposals, and there must also be many measures at European level in which we, ladies and gentlemen, must stand together for joint decisions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It's about a We and not a Either or, and it's about a common decision and a joint performance. This extraordinary situation also requires an agreement in Parliament, and I should also like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party, and to ask you to vote for Austria in the light of the crisis situation and not Austria. [[Abg. Riemer: We are very much in favour of our own population...!]] [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Call at the FPÖ:No one ever applauds!]] I should therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Call the FPÖ: Madness!]] [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make a very special point in this amendment, namely Article 2(1). It's literally here: ‘It should be made clear that, where necessary, the municipalities have the necessary number of places to accommodate needy and vulnerable strangers. The legal consequences of non-fulfilment of the indicative value are due to the nature. 3.’ That means, ladies and gentlemen: If, for any reason, a municipality cannot make the number of places available, the only consequence is that the federal government can then – although the district directive value and the national law value are not met – establish accommodation in this municipality. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a law in cooperation with the communities and countries, that is a law to help, that is a law on cooperation, not a law on criminalization! [[Abg. Deimek: Against the citizens...!]] This law secures every mayor the municipal autonomy he has so far, and guarantees that that mayor will be helped who cannot provide appropriate places, and that he will not be criminalized, ladies and gentlemen! [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Riemer and Mr Deimek.]] This is a law for cooperation and this is a consequence of this emergency situation in which we are currently in the process. [[Abg. Deimek:... Mayor!]] We are fighting this emergency situation. We are fighting the crisis situation. Emergency accommodation is thus created. It is not a matter of complaining, but of finding solutions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Riemer.]] Let this, ladies and gentlemen of the Freemans, be written into your master book!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e15136	The amendment which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported, properly submitted and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e15243	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Stefan. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e15264	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! My speaking time is limited, yet very briefly to Mr Gerstl: They're talking about the orderly constitutional state. – This is also a great concern to me, and that is why we will vote against this law. I'll explain this to you the following. They are talking about extraordinary measures due to exceptional circumstances – I am talking about panic in the constitutional order. Now on the procedure, on the facts: This law is here introduced as an initiative proposal by three parties – and not, as is usual in such cases, as a government proposal. [[Abg. Glavischig-Piesczek: Yes, exactly!]] [[Abg. Glavischig-Piesczek: Why? Parliament itself can work!]] What's the reason? . A government template would mean that there is a review and the possibility of opinions by countries, municipalities and other institutions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Glavischig-Piesczek.]] This is not the case here. The proposal for an initiative without consideration means that the countries and municipalities had no opportunity to give an official opinion on it. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Glavischnig-Piesczek and Mr Pendl.]] [[Abg. Darmann: Now you have made Mrs. Klubobmann nervous!]] [[Abg. Glavischig-Piesczek: No, how-so? Very boring, I'm disappointed...!]] That was an essential reason for the process, and so many times primarily to the orderly constitutional state. The reactions of the municipal government as well as individual mayors and local representatives have all been addressed to you. They also show what these essential representatives of our society think is decided across their heads – and all of this in a federal constitutional law that massively intervenes in the constitutional structure of our legal order. Now on to the content: It is stated that each municipality should take up at least 1.5 percent of its population of vulnerable persons. ‘At least’ means: open to the top, and the municipality will not be included if this percentage is increased, because the Ministry of the Interior may increase this percentage at any time by means of a regulation. That means: At present 1.5 percent have been committed, approximately 100 000 such vulnerable or so-called vulnerable persons. That is the number we are pretty sure to reach this year. This will require an increase as early as the next year – out of the 1.5 percent, it may be 3% and so on next year. In addition, the vulnerable people are also considered to be a resident population. So if 1.5 percent of the population is taken up, the people in need of protection will increase the number of people living and thus the absolute number of those in need who come to the community. So we have a completely open system here. [[Call the FPÖ:Genau! It's perfect!]] This is the supposed constitutional state that Mr Gerstl has spoken about. The Ministry of the Interior can now notify that accommodation can be set up or buildings used without taking into account federal and national rules – i.e. without respect to the spatial order, the building regulations, the property rights and the rights of neighbours. Let this break on the tongue! This will put all the provisions out of effect – all provisions on land law and all provisions of the spatial planning, the construction regulations, and the neighbouring rights will also be severely restricted. If a hotel is built next to your property, then you as a neighbor have the right to comment and also have rights. If a refugee accommodation is built next to you, you have no rights. – This is the “ordered constitutional state” you are talking about. [[Abg. Darmann: Scandal!]] If you decide to do so, then today's law, namely federal constitution law, is not easy to lift. You do! – If you consider this to be good, please explain it to your parish citizens, I think you are mayor anyway. [[Abg. Wheeler: That's it!]] [[Abg. Wheeler: Light, easy! Everything already done!]] Then you do, and I'm convinced that your community won't see it like that. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Darmann.]] The funding is open: Who's funding this? Who will finance the accommodation? Does this have to be done by the churches or by the covenant? Since the communities were not included in the law, I assume once that the federal government will take over the funding. Another point is the deadline: The fact that this law is temporary is always pointed out. However, even if this law is limited in time, it is expressly in that the decisions that have been adopted are not limited in time. So these decisions continue to apply. That means: If you have such an accommodation, it will not be closed by 2018, but rather the accommodation will continue to exist, as the notices expressly continue to apply. Without yet being able to do this in detail: In any case, we have a massive intervention in the division of competence of the state. The federal principle, that is, the federal principle – an essential building block of our constitution! – is thrown over the pile, nor is the self-management of the communities and relevant personal rights respected. With this law, we have a presumption-related breakthrough of constitutional building principles, and that is not tolerable! That's why I'm saying: It is about panic – and not about an orderly constitutional state! [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Steinbichler.]] We have rightly pointed out again and again how essential the enlargement of direct democracy in the Austrian state would be, so that it is not – as it is here and today in Parliament – so far beyond the rights of the citizens that they have the opportunity to defend themselves. A key point in this regard would be to introduce a veto referendum. Then there would be the possibility for citizens to force a referendum with the help of an initiative and with a certain number of signatures when such a law was passed. That would be an important and essential step, and I am convinced: Then we would see how those who vote in favour of this law today will really be voted! We will also call for a nameable vote so that we can see exactly which mayors ignore the rights of their parish citizens and go beyond their concerns. In this sense, I shall now also make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] So that means: We demand a referendum on this law, because we are convinced that you first intervene in the basic principles of the Constitution and, secondly, substantially in the securitised rights of the individual citizens. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] As has already been said correctly: Especially in times when there are such exceptional situations, it is particularly important that our legal order works. In fact, we have nothing to do with panic now throwing the legal order overboard to react quickly somewhere if we now bring in laws without consideration and the like. We have nothing of that at all! Otherwise, it is always stressed how important it is that everyone speaks with me and that we all listen – quite rightly! But here and today, we're taking the legal order with our feet, and nobody has anything of it. This does not improve the situation, but only makes the legal system worse. I repeat, but this point is important: Panic is a bad counsellor in the adoption of federal constitutional laws.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e15471	The request for a referendum is sufficiently supported, properly submitted and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e15511	Next speaker: Mrs. Klubobfrau Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek. - Please, Mrs. Klubobfrau.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e15532	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Honourable Members! In short, addressed to the previous speaker: You see us now completely relaxed. The background of this law, which you unfortunately did not mention, has to do with something called seasons. Although it is still relatively warm outside now, it will be very cold in at least two or three weeks, especially early in the morning. This law aims to create decent accommodation for protection-seeking refugees, because it simply gets cold and because tents are not heated! [[I should like to congratulate the Greens, Mr Pendl and Mr Yılmaz.]] I would like you to invite the new refugee coordinator to the club. Let me tell you! [[Abg. Darmann: As the refugee coordinator said, the boat is far from full!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] I find it remarkable that you have not made any constructive contribution to this challenge of solidarity. You have been wasting your speaking time completely by somehow presenting a skill hack. It is already significant: The only solution that always comes to your mind on the question of refugee accommodation is the reference to Hungary and the ‘model Orbán’. I would like to ask you whether this is your idea of decent politics and decent dealing with those seeking protection. Already in 2012, there was systematic violence in Hungarian refugee camps – hunger strike, suicide attempts, catastrophic hygiene, brutal guards, sedatives, and so on. That was already 2012. [[Abg. Stefan: And why don't they want to stay in Austria?- Oh, my God!]] We have observed at the border that tear gas, water pitchers and rubber clubs have been used against refugees and their children. Even the UN, even the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Ban Ki-moon, has shown itself shocked. So if that's your model? [[Abg. Stefan: Why don't they want to stay in Austria? Why do they want to go to Germany? Are they treated so badly with us?]] Have you seen the videos on how to give food to refugees there? [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] They then throw the plastic bags in like in a... – I don't know, I'm missing the words to describe them appropriately. Is that your model? – Please don’t wake up like this; I think the panic is more in your ranks now. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Darmann and Mr Stefan.]] [[Congratulations with the Greens, with representatives of the SPÖ and the Abg. Steinacker.]] [[Abg. Stefan: Why don't they want to stay in Austria?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hagen.]] Today, even the shooting order was issued at the Hungarian border. They can shoot at people! - Is that your model? Where are we?- Oh, my God! [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] We are different about many things, that is, I do not think, a secret, but we already agree on one thing: In the life of Austrian soldiers, Austrian police officers will never demand that they shoot on children, on women, on pregnant women, on refugees! Or is that your idea? [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Steinacker.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] - Is that your idea? A model of Hungary! An example of Orbán! What is it then? [[New calls to the FPÖ.]] I would also like to refer to the law and to the clean parliamentary procedure. I also attach importance to the fact that it was a clean parliamentary procedure. By the way: They are always complaining by the FPÖ that so few initiatives are being developed here in Parliament. This is one of the few that has been prepared in the house. Is your idea the following: Right of entry for the government, which should always give us something and let us just let it go? [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] No, it hasn't been that way, it was the collaboration of several clubs. This is the result, and I say: That's a good result! [[Assembly with the Greens, with representatives of the ÖVP and with the Abg. Pendl.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] I am well aware that I am not in the first line when it comes to defending the Minister of the Interior regarding her policy, but what your clubman has done today to just stand up, to talk about abuse of office, to talk about breaking the law...! [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Yes, but when it comes to the two-thirds majority, you are there!]] [[Abg. Darmann:... eh a ministerial loan...!]] In your own series, you're not so squeaky! If you look at the managing director of the Freedom Party, who is still running the business now: Against Mr Weixelbaum becomes active and passive, because of the suspicion of corruption, bribery and bribery! - determined. By the way, it is also against your former finance council – you as a Carinthian know – that, Mr Dobernig, it is determined for the abuse of office, for the suppression of documents, for the destruction of evidence, forgery, forgery. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Darmann:... Captain of Carinthia of SPÖ?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pendl.]] Only so much to your accuracy and precision as regards the accusations. You could have said at least: the suspicion of official abuse. – I say this: This is determined for – and this is highly precise; You can't give me a call for order now, Mr President, can you? - No? Okay! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Yılmaz.]] So, and now again to the law: We usually have many different requirements when it comes to the approval of refugee accommodation. It takes a lot of time. We have often experienced that there are mutual political blockages because a mayor has not cooperated with a head of state, a speaker with one – I know – of defence ministers. There were many political blockages, and that took time. This law allows simply before winter break-in to prevent homelessness, preventing non-weather-resistant tents. In my opinion, many municipalities and many mayors have already begun to consider: I am a 1 700-inhabitant community, such as Laxenburg, and I can do that. I can create a quarter for 25 people. That's what our mayors and mayors do. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] We know that in many communities there has not yet been any contact between people and refugee families. I believe that this law will also make a great contribution to the fact that once you have heard the story of a human being, once you have spoken to two young people, the images that are being transported on both sides in the media and which are also used politically again and again. Christian Conrad said something very interesting. He said: I have a grandchild, that's 17 years old. I know what the guy can do, but I also know what the guy can't do. – I think this description fits many young people: We are dealing here with so many very young people who have been fleeing for years. For you are the young people who want a better income. For me, it's young people who need help, and the 17-year-old is also a young guy for me, I tell you that too! [[Congratulations with the Greens, with representatives of the SPÖ and the Agg. Scherak.]] That's exactly what we're here for now. For underage unaccompanied young people, 17 to 25, who also have a chance in our society if we give you opportunities if we train them well. Many have good English skills, have already a basic education. All of them are alphabetized. All of the Syrian youths speak their language very well, and most speak very good English. [[Abg. Mölzer:... Afghanistan?]] [[Abg. Peter Worm:... don't trust!]] In my son's school this is no problem at all, within a few months they are fully integrated. Let us give them a chance, because whether we are making a chance out of this situation as a Europe or a huge problem, that is primarily up to us! I believe that our society is strong enough to make a great opportunity.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e15827	Next, Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e15849	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! I understand that Mrs Klubob-Woman Glavischnig sees the situation completely relaxed, because in principle it is now precisely the policy that the Greens have always wanted: Doors open and all refugees in! – Nothing else has happened now, and that is your desire of politics. [[Abg. Schwentner: Here you go!]] But now I'm telling you what it really looks like: If we had a reasonable government policy, then we would not have this problem, then there would be no such challenges as we now have with accommodation. That means: The government should just have done their homework! Why do I say that? – Ladies and gentlemen, the accommodation need is a self-made one. Switzerland has a first test procedure within 48 hours. In other words, one can see if someone really has a chance for asylum or not. I've got you a few weeks ago – on 1st. September – here informs that our Vorarlberg head of state Wallner of the ÖVP has clearly stated in the television interview that a maximum of 50 percent of those then 2 200 asylum seekers registered there have a chance of asylum in Vorarlberg. Why? Let's continue to look at Holland: In Holland, the asylum test procedure is under way for ten days. I have seen the EU Vice-President on television, who has clearly said that he is not surprised that in Germany, but also in Austria, many are applying for asylum, because the social system and the initial examination are regulated in such a way that asylum seekers can stay for at least six months. He then answered the further question of the journalist: Yes, it is that this is an incentive if I'm provided well for six months and get a good pocket money. – That was the statement of an EU Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, maybe this should give us a little thought? You'll remember, I've got here on 1st. September also spoke of how the Caritas practice looks when a Kosovare, who has no chance of asylum – that is to say, 99.99 percent – is willing to return to Kosovo: The legal counsellors of the Caritas suggest to him that he should make an asylum application again and refrain from this return, since he would have the chance of a humanitarian right to stay. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a promotion of abuse and therefore we have these accommodation problems. That's something that needs to be addressed for honesty's sake! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] What you want to do with this law now, ladies and gentlemen, is a rape of our communities and community representatives. That's a problem, I'll tell you. And I'll explain it to you now, too. [[Call the SPÖ: Stop!]] I spoke a few weeks ago with a local representative – that is something like a municipal council in Austria, in Vorarlberg it is called a local representative – in my neighboring community, which is not from my group but from the ÖVP. He told me the following: It is incomprehensible to him that, on request, Mr Mayor could not explain how many asylum seekers live in the community. He said, however, that it was so clear that this is not at all possible because many are housed in private accommodation, because many people have passed over the German border again. [[Abg. Plessl: It's not true what you're saying!]] And that's the problem: The mayor has no idea how many really are in the community. [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Don't you have to confirm the quarter?]] Now explain to me how you want to regulate by law that each community is given the refugees equally distributed. They force communities that do not have the infrastructure to take up refugees. I would like to give you a small example: Last week I was with a delegation in the Baltic, and we talked to a Member in Vilnius who told us that they would like to take up asylum seekers. The evangelical community there has voluntarily recorded 40 Syrians, after two weeks no one was there anymore because they have moved on. You might have to look at that. And now it comes: They also said that the social system with them is not as good as with us. And the refugees want to go where there is a good social system in which they can participate. [[Abg. Plessl: I'm not saying what you're saying now!]] I have already mentioned this to you today: Read the article in the “Vorarlberger Nachrichten” by Ms. Kneissel – you will see the light! And then we wouldn't have all these problems if we were to act on them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e15963	The next item is the speech by Mr Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e15984	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! Perhaps at the beginning something you need to clarify for Klubobmann Strache and Klubobmann Lugar: You have said that an infringement procedure is now under way against Austria, because the Dublin agreement and so on are not being complied with here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lugar.]] You'd have to read the messages properly. The reason for the infringement procedure is the failure or insufficient implementation of the Directive laying down standards for the admission of persons applying for international protection. This means that we are dealing with minimum standards for refugees, in particular access to the labour market for asylum seekers, which we have not yet implemented in Austria. So if you're quoting such things, that's why it's supposed to start a infringement procedure, you already have to read the reports correctly. [[Congratulation with NEOS, SPÖ and Greens.]] [[Abg. Lugar, shit!]] Now to the law. The fact is quite simple: We know that we need this law because we have to provide enough places for people seeking protection in Austria, and it is necessary that we join forces. We have seen last year that this has not worked because individual federal states have always stolen themselves from responsibility, because individual communities, even many communities, were not willing to take up refugees. Conversely, many communities have done something great and have voluntarily said: Yeah, we'll help with that. – Thank you very much, too. We have experienced that within Austria very, very many do not show solidarity, and we have seen this within the European Union in recent weeks and also for a long time. That is why this Constitutional Law is needed. I don't quite understand the excitement – we've heard that before – because I haven't heard the FPÖ's proposal for a solution either. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] Apart from “margins high, ” I just don’t hear him. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Darmann: Listen with meaning!]] We need to accommodate these people now, when winter comes, and if you don't bring me a solution here, it's gonna be hard. We need to find winter-proof quarters and we need the right of entry with the appropriate sanctions, because that was the main problem in recent years: Since we had no sanctions mechanism, some federal states have taken the chance and received too few refugees. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Darmann.]] If the President of the Federal Government says that he prefers to have a purpose-destination rather than a must-destination, then he has not recognized the situation either, for it is precisely this must-determination, because otherwise there is no sanctions mechanism and some will steal from responsibility again. It is also clear that the legal order does not lead to any mayor being penalised, but the legal order is quite simply like this: If the municipalities cannot make this available – by the way, there is also the option that they, together with other communities from their political district, reach this municipal directive – then the federal government takes the replacement plan. [[Abg. Darmann: How strange is that?]] That means it doesn't make anyone punishable. And we know that this mandatory directive is necessary, because otherwise there will be no solution. Excitingly, today in the “Morgenjournal” I have learned that FPÖ is concerned that there will be conditions such as in Traiskirchen everywhere. So if at that time, when we had really cruel conditions in Traiskirchen, you would have been so concerned about the conditions on the ground, then I would have been very pleased. [[Call the FPÖ:Was we eh!]] [[Congratulation with NEOS and Greens.]] What Mr Stefan honors is – I believe he is a very profiled constitutional speaker – that he sees again and again where constitutional problems exist. And yes, you can discuss whether this is difficult for the distribution of competence. In fact, however, it is an emergency right, and this intervention will only come in individual situations. And what's the opposite incomprehensible: Mr Stefan is now enacting constitutional law. But even there he did not say anything when human rights were not observed for weeks in Traiskirchen. So either both or nothing! [[Congratulation with NEOS, SPÖ and Greens.]] Finally, very briefly – yes, that always is – for the tow-paragraph. [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: But they were against development cooperation!]] We will also agree to the intensification, I think it is important. But I said it in committee: That alone will not solve the problem. It is important to send a signal, but nevertheless, as long as we do not have legal access to the European Union, refugees, people who run away from the war, will always find a way to get in – and this is also illegal – and there will continue to be towing.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e16113	Next, Mr Magistrate. Darmann speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e16134	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! High house! The truth is known to be a daughter of the time, ladies and gentlemen, and this truth will overwhelm you, especially the reigns of the Austrian Federal Government in its inactivity, in its inability, but also in this inability towards the Austrian population, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Glauvisch-Piesczek: Speed kills...!]] Unfortunately, this is – and we have already been confirmed several times – when we look at the current figures in unemployment statistics. If we have about half a million unemployed in Austria, about 1.2 million Austrians live on and below the poverty line, and now the homemade asylum chaos by this Federal Government is still in place, then it is now proven – and this for every country up, downhill, from Vorarlberg to Burgenland, from Vienna to Carinthia, to Upper Austria – that this federal government has failed completely with its alyl-political efforts, which ignores international migration. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The parish citizens, that is, the population of Austria, must bear the burden of this failure on their shoulders. For the longer term, it would have been necessary, in the sense of the successful development of the Republic of Austria, to bring the tens of thousands of illegal economic migrants who have been growing up in Austria in recent years, outside of the country, not up-to-date, but for years, you have been here sumptuous. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] For a long time, ladies and gentlemen, the Dublin agreement would have had to live consistently and for a long time it would have been necessary to comply with the Schengen code and not, as the Austrian people are now precipitated by the political representatives of the Federal Government, unfortunately also by the Members here – partly by SPÖ, ÖVP, in particular by the Greens, but also by the NEOS – to the population, it will be controlled at the border. Unfortunately, some media are not too bad to carry this message to the population. Yes, these are not border controls, these are alibiactions when thousands, tens of thousands of people are still uncontrollably entering our borders overnight and the security aspects of the Austrian population are completely disabled. [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: How do you imagine border controls?]] [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Tell me how you imagine this!]] No one controls, records whether IS terrorists are coming into the country and the Federal Government is also not too bad to organize trains, to bring the people uncontrolled to Austria, to bring them to Germany and now, where Germany has closed, to leave them all with us – and to unload them on the back, the shoulders of the Austrian population! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is an absolute admission of guilt from this Austrian Federal Government. In particular, Mr Brosz, when we are now talking about this right of entry, the Greens are the climbers of this government. [[Abg. Brosz: What did you do?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neubauer]] It is not about the development of an initiative proposal by Greens, SPÖ and ÖVP themselves, but about the transfer by the government of a corresponding concept here to the High House to ensure that the consultation mechanism is removed, that countries are no longer involved in the drafting of this Constitutional Act, that community interests no longer play a role, and that it is also one of the main criticism points that we liberals are expressing – that there is a legal admission of the Austrian government to debt. Country competences are clearly cut here, so that the federal principle is applied accordingly, municipal competences are cut down and municipal autonomy accordingly limited. [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: This is the meaning of the law!]] [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: That's exactly the meaning!]] I'm wondering, Where are you, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP, who are said to be – and this should also prove the figures – always equipped with very many mayors across Austria, where are the opinions? These mayors still count something in your parties, which are still daily among the citizens, and of course understandably recognize the concerns, fears and needs of the population, taking in knowledge, and if you are not already with the citizens, at least communicate to them in isolation that this path is the wrong way. For, ladies and gentlemen, another criticism – Mr Harald Stefan has already made it clear – is: The legal protection of the neighbors will be cut to a great extent by this Federal Constitutional Act. That is to say, the population should take care of something, because the Federal Government will not, as it has said now, pay particular attention to the observance of the 1.5 percent quota in a community, for one has already been overtaken by reality, ladies and gentlemen. If 80 000 to 150 000 people are currently on the Balkan route, 500 000 people in Turkey are waiting to move to Central Europe, millions of people in North Africa are waiting to break into rich Europe, into rich social states: Where will you get with your 1.5 percent if the communities have to carry 2 percent, 3, 4 or 5 percent – by your regulation, Mrs. Innenminister, that will be your sole competence? [[Interference of Federal Minister Ostermayer]] This, in turn, will have everything to learn from the population, and that – and that is the summit of this Federal Constitutional Act – without involving the population. That is to say, the federal constitution has been presented here in essential aspects, you have also made a corresponding change, and you are actually turning off the population from all this procedure by not allowing the referendum to take place. And you are also making fun of it in the committee responsible when the liberals call for the uppermost involvement of the population, as a sovereign, as an employer for all of us when it comes to safeguarding the interests of our own home country, of the Republic of Austria, of the citizens in our country, with all the interests of protection for true – I emphasize: true – refugees of war. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] But this cannot go so far as to allow people to enter into the infinite, endless, without regard to the potential resources in our country, and that in a quota arrangement without maximum numbers. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] For more than a year and much longer, we have been calling on this Federal Government to finally bring in a maximum number of people who, as war refugees, get protection on time here in Austria. – Asylum is protection on time. But if we do not take in this highest figure, the whole quota will not help, because we will always go after the quotas if we want to. And you can't blame a community for not keeping a certain quota if we let in another 10,000 or more people every weekend under the week, and a federal state, which was perhaps already 99 percent of what was called quota-filling, has landed again at 90 percent after a weekend, because it corresponds to the population, or the people... – Now I make the mistake you make all the time, ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government, that I already use this concept of population for the foreigners, just as you understand it. [[Interference of Federal Minister Ostermayer]] Mr. Kurz, in a "standard" interview of 20. June 2015 – I quote – held: “What we need to know is that all these people will not leave our country anymore.” – quoted Sebastian Kurz, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Minister for Integration. This should also give us some thought if we consider this so-called asylum policy of this government, and then also representatives of the High House, who do not remember who they are talking about: of course, the federal constitution to which they were praised, but also, first of all, the people in their federal states who have elected them here in this House. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] They are not a voting machinery of this Federal Government, which, last but not least, leads to a decision being taken against its own people. That is why I would ask you here in the House, but also the federal councils which listen to us today, to assume your responsibility as country representatives at the Federal Council meeting on Friday, and not to vote against the citizens' interests of the federal states, but to truly support what you are in favour of, namely to ensure that the available resources are used only to this extent, and not our own social system, our own health system, our own education system, our infrastructure, our housing market and the like, because you only have an answer to clear messages on our part and to the concerns of the people : Hetze. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler]] [[Abg. Wöger: Hetze!]] [[Abg. Wöger: Hetze!]] That was exactly the word of the ÖVP, from the ÖVP sector. I'll tell you one thing, even if I'm going over it now: [[Abg. Wöginger: You're talking for 10 minutes and didn't say anything!]] The local population is content to be constantly confronted with the accusation of “het! ” only if they express their own concerns. - I'll tell you! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We liberals are aware of these problems, will continue to be a voice tube for the population, and will also call for votes in the interests of the population here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e16373	The next item is the speech by Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e16394	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and in front of the televisions! It is a very serious issue today and we have been following this serious issue for many years now, we can never discuss it objectively and seriously. That's very, very bad. And we would not stand here today and discuss this law, if all domestic solidarity had behaved, no question at all. I would like to start at the beginning, before I make some comment on this Constitutional Law, respectfully – right, all of you forget about each other; you thank the Austrians and the NGOs at all – from the Samaritans to the Red Cross to the Diacony – for their commitment to the poorest in our country and in society, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lugar]] [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP, Greens and NEOS.]] I thank all co-negotiators. It was not easy, and we have always made the connection to know where the countries, the town government, the municipal government are. All of this has not made it easy for us; but after considering whether people are on the meadow in winter, with the alternative that we try to decide today a law that will at least help humanity to break through, I believe that what has been expressed by some previous speakers is partly self-evident. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! This law does not take effect even if the country quotas are respected. I don't understand what you're really excited about. Next, Mr. Darmann, the law is limited. We all know that; this automatically goes out of power in about two years. [[Abg. Darmann: Where is the reason?]] Why are we upset now? We still have no refugees in two thirds of the Austrian communities. I think we should at least agree on one thing, not to mix everything. We started to discuss this before this wave came. [[Abg. Steinhauser: That's it!]] Today, everything is turned around like a whirlwind, so you can be pretty uncertain, but all that is being discussed there is inconceivable. I believe that we need a clean solution so that we can take account of the refugee convention and the human rights convention on the one hand. I also thank our asylum authorities, from the police to the federal army, because they do all the excellent work. Take a look at the findings of our Federal Office for Foreign Affairs and Asylum, which are rule of law in order. On the other hand, we have no doubt that those who are entitled to receive asylum will get it and that all others will be brought back home. You know that, but that's also a legal process, but it takes a long time. We are not a wild state, will be a rule of law. I believe that we should place great importance on this so that we take account of our rule of law on the one hand, but on the other hand we do not carry humanity to the grave. It can't be. I do not know why one is so pleased that in a neighbouring country it is decided that shooting on refugees is allowed. We're in 2015, please. Think of what this historically means when we start to talk that perhaps still can't be said! I'm strictly against that. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP, Greens and NEOS.]] Everyone should think about this, ladies and gentlemen, which is still causing these measures. I would like to thank all the Austrians, all the politicians who, together with us, have certainly not negotiated this light federal constitution law. Finally, as one who has been here for many years, I say: We are always criticised by the government, but let us not accept one thing, our own right that we, as parliamentarians, make a law from us. This is what we have done in the interests of humanity.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e16468	The next item is the speech by Mr Steinbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e16490	Mr President. [[The speaker places a photo of an overcrowded refugee boat on the speaker's desk.]] Minister! Mr. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Values Watchers on the gallery and in front of the TV sets! [[Abg. Wenninger: Please turn off!]] In the first place, of course, I am extending sincere participation to all refugees. Mr President, we are discussing this call for call; the issue is too serious for your primitive, cheap calls. But I would like to say the following: My sincere participation applies to all real refugees and to all who are now coming to Europe in this mass flow to Austria. Special thanks go to the NGOs, but also especially to the security forces, to the police, to the federal army. This will always be forgotten, and I repeat, here we have often discussed potential savings and how unnecessary and unnecessary these security forces are. I believe that this Europe-wide situation – one would like to say almost worldwide – shows how necessary a properly functioning rule of law is. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] If the definition of refugees has already been addressed or debated several times by colleagues today, that is, I think, the basis for discussing quotas. This is the first time you've been talking about quotas, setting quotas, and not knowing what number of refugees you're talking about. I took with me the book of Kurt Langbein from which I will quote this afternoon and also tomorrow. [[the speaker keeps Kurt Langbein’s book “Land Robbery” up]] We are all talking about globalisation, but this issue is not addressed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schwentner.]] Kurt Langbein says that 50 million Africans will be on their way if we continue our corporate policy. Can we create quotas for this crowd of people? Are we prepared to improve this misguided corporate and banking policy and to create the camps for it? – Now we come to the topic for these poor people. 2.7 percent have actually been granted asylum status according to FAZ; only so that we can get to reality a concept of how many people we talk about. Jean Ziegler has always pointed out this globalisation; I quoted Petra Ramsauer with her book “So Is Hungered”, there are plenty of Dokus up to “We Feed the World”. I am allowed to quote Kurt Langbein here, who speaks of the acquisition of international corporations with the World Bank in 2014 of 41 million hectares of agricultural land and displaced the domestic population there and that a mother with seven children gets €25 a month; and we put in a wonderful discussion into space that all these are refugees of war. These are mostly economic refugees – caused by our economy, our profit-oriented system. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Not long before the Constitutional Act. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen. In principle, it is not necessary to take account of the country's rules on construction and spatial planning. How do we deal with the citizens of Austria who have been punished under these laws, who have been put in place measures under these laws so far? Have you spoken recently to an entrepreneur or to parents and grandparents who wanted to build and who have failed and been prevented? Is the punishment paid back? Will the conditions be refunded? Are profit losses being rewarded, or do we have no understanding for these people, for our citizens? – This is a typical two-class legislation. Not for nothing, the President of the Federal Government, a very competent man, speaks of an empowerment law for the Federal Government. – That’s not how it can be! We do not need a law of driving over the citizens, about the communities and about the countries! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I would like to make one last point here, because of course we are voting against this law. If we now set 1.5 percent as a quota, how will the further determinations be? When do we increase when we double to 3 percent, when do we go to 5 percent? Is anyone else asking? If this is not taken into account, we can immediately suspend the municipal and rural elections held on Sunday in Upper Austria and in Vienna in 14 days. If we rule away from the League, we can create the first savings here immediately and then we go away from talking about democracy. That is why there is a clear no from our side.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e16581	Mr Brandstetter spoke on a point of view. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e16603	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I just wanted to make a few comments about the towing stock, the § 114 of the Foreign Police Act, which is to be changed in one point and amplified – and that makes sense. It is about the fact that, in the future, the more severe threat of this crime, which usually also allows for detention, will become possible even if, as far as the number of those towed is concerned, at least three persons and not at least ten have been dragged. This is important, therefore, because the question of the number of towed persons is something that can be proved relatively easily in the course of a arrest. All other criteria that decide on the specific sentence, such as commercialism, are not as easy to prove at the outset. That is why it makes sense to intensify this state of action on this point. However, I do not see at present any need for other intensifications, because of course this is also a signal, but it is more than a placebo – it actually comes to bear. We have already launched a total of 1,500 criminal proceedings against tractors in 2015 following this crime. We have already made almost 500 accusations on this case-law this year, so we can see that our authorities, whom I would like to congratulate on this point, are really working very fast and excellent, and there have already been 341 convictions. That is to say, the state of the matter, it works, and the judicial system is really taking action here. And that's good, because towing is one of the most appalling forms of international organised crime. That is why we must be consistent here in the fight, and that is what we are. Yes, we therefore also have increasing numbers of arresters, but I can say at this point that the reforms in the execution of the penalty really bear first fruit. This has been dealt with so far without problems. Of course, we have high demands to meet here, but the reform process already started in the execution of the sentence, including the necessary capacity expansions, is fully in progress. We have not had any real problems to put the tractors where they belong, namely in prison. We also want to continue to ensure that Austria is a high-risk target country for tractors – that is what should remain. In this way, I think that this increase in the number of tractors contained in this draft law is extremely useful and I would ask you to approve it accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e16648	Mrs Mag. Mag. has spoken. Steinacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e16669	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Appreciate fellow citizens! [[The speaker makes a book entitled “The Confession of a Merchant. ”]] I put a quote from a tug from this book, which I brought with you today: ‘A human dealer’s confession. Drugs are worth more than refugees, than people, because it is in front of people, refugees and customers, in this world only in the way that our services are used. - Quote. Ladies and gentlemen, this book is disturbing to read and there are insights into these really illegal shops that these tugs are doing. Human smuggling has now become one of the most lucrative mafia business, and the individual person simply counts much less than the thing – for example, the drug. People lose their dignity, they are treated as commodities, they are passed on to the most dangerous travel agency in the world. The inconceivable tragedy of the 71 dead, the people who died on the A4, was near; that was more obvious to us than when boats set in the sea. They paid twice for the ride – first with money and then with life. Organized towing is an unscrupulous crime; we call on this humane management to fight. It's hardest crime. Our own initiative, which we have put in together, is now giving the police better opportunities, and we support them with legal weapons. The Federal Minister has stated that, in the future, there will be five years of punishment if three persons are already transported illegally. The general prevention will work, as I believe, because, of course, the tractors can be arrested much faster because of this increased crime. Pronounced like those that you only took car stoppers, we no longer have to fear to the extent. Mein Ladies and gentlemen, we must continue to expect a high number of refugees in the future. Please don't forget about all the discussions that we have just heard in the last hour, which are always people with single-sicks. I fully support Mrs Bundesminister's intention to grant asylum on time. Asylum on time means that people really have to return home when they fall away from the asylum ground. I think this is a claim that we also need to raise, because it means that the people who find protection and security here must return home in order to rebuild their country in peace. We have the task of ensuring security in front of the borders of Europe and co-ordinated through safe zones of protection which we set up for the victims, as well as a closed strategy against terrorism at international level. With full hardness against the Tow Mafia! This is part of our ÖVP Action Plan, and in this context I can also make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! We are on a long way within the framework of all the current refugee topics that we have to solve. This requires endurance, a long breath, and only together will we manage to cope with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e16755	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place, and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e16825	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e16846	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! We now also have a debate on the tightening of the tractor paragraph, and we welcome this as a first important step. One just has to be clear, it is not the big bosses of the criminal organizations, but it is the direct executioners on the ground who come from countries that are very much part of the EU, but are still in an economic situation, and who simply do the lowest things of towing. Of course, it is necessary – in general with the arrest – because, on the other hand, one has the risk of having an ad on a free footing, or we know very well with which mild first perpetrators, even if they may be faithful, are treated by the Austrian criminal justice. If the police have already been praised – of course it is to praise – then it must be noted that there are findings, remarks, perceptions that taxis drive across the border with Hungary, let someone get out there, and then go back. These are loud vehicles with no numbering boards; this works unhindered at the border of Burgenland. That's what the soldiers are describing, the present servants who are now coming there. Very interesting is also the following: A car bus is stopped by the police, the towers are supposed to leave. On the radio you can hear that the tug has already hit somewhere in the bush. You couldn't find him, but all those who passed by saw that the bus driver was still sitting inside. So these are very interesting perceptions; but we welcome that. Let us now turn to the main point in this debate, namely item on the agenda 1! We've heard very interesting things, so please note. Today, Mrs Glavischnig-Piesczek has clearly said to the 17-year-olds, it doesn't matter if they are actually asylum seekers or if they're just those who want to improve their lives. [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: I didn’t say!]] That is, these are the economic refugees, these are the classic economic refugees. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Glavischnig-Piesczek and Mr Brosz.]] But that doesn't matter. It's your political direction that says: Actually, everyone is welcome. And if the EU concludes an unfavorable agreement with an African state, then the inhabitants of the country, if they can no longer catch tuna, are already welcome as refugees with us. – It’s your political view. Only: This is the political view that God is grateful, a minority, which will also show up in the next elections. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I have to say that my Hungarian is in itself extremely clumsy to none at all, but this law... – So Otto Pendl and also Mrs. Glawischnig have meant that there is now this shooting possibility, there is the shooting order or the like. It would do the truth a little enough if you were to do it despite all the hardness of these measures; but I can't imagine how else to protect a border. Or is there nothing worth protecting from an external border of the EU? You just have to say that, Mrs. Glavischnig! But in any case – I can calm you – hard rubber shots are used so that no fatal injuries or anything else can happen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Nevertheless, it is not exciting, but it would be to your honour if you were to tell the whole truth here. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We are now in an attack where the federal principle is lifted by an emergency regulation. Well, about emergency regulations in history – what can happen there – we don't want to philosophise at all. If you say it's an emergency action: Emergency defence is then when the situation is illegal and, above all, innocent. That one speaks of an emergency situation where one sees eyes – please, a year ago country decisions were also from Upper Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] The Landtag has taken a decision to protect the border, because too many people come in. We are facing a refugee disaster. So who looked away? – Of course our federal government! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] One, Mrs Glawischnig: You and your group only need to hear the word ‘two-thirds majority’, you are already in advance obedience – there may be what you want. In August, when the whole thing was ready for the first time, you have already been signaled that you are, of course, participating in it. So it is with you because you never get a democratic legitimacy of power through the voter vote, but always through coalitions. Otherwise you are too weak for it – thank God it is so! One thing I have to say, and we will probably have a little opportunity to change some word about it at the meeting tomorrow. One thing I find strange: Now, if we punish the tow crime accordingly and show SPÖ's head of state Entholzer in the “Kronen Zeitung”-Oberösterreich understanding for tugs – so that really is what makes the bottom!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e16948	Mrs Mag. Korun. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e16970	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen in the gallery and in front of the screens! I don't know which one of you looked at yesterday's "time in the picture". There was, among other things, the report that our country's re-indebtedness is much greater than forecast – because of the hypo scandal. A graphic with a new debt was shown where: Hypo €5.6 billion. Refugees could not cost as much as FPÖ and its government interests in the country cost us. [[Congratulation with greens and SPÖ.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Podgorschek and Mr Deimek.]] We have a budget deficit of €5.6 billion this year because of the hypo scandal alone. [[Abg. Darmann: I don't know, but open my mouth!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] But when we return to the real world, for example, to the world of cruel war in Syria, which has gone into the fifth year, we know that in recent weeks and months, much has also been the talk of common solidarity and shared responsibility. [[new calls to the FPÖ]] I have already said in the current hour of Europe – I repeat it once again – that the EU is made up of 28 countries and, of course, it cannot be that the responsibility for protection seekers is only taken over by ten countries and not by all 28 – I stand for that. What we support in the large part, we should also support and live in the smaller parts, namely national solidarity. I know that many mayors and mayors as well as many citizens have been making enormous efforts for weeks to create accommodations, to provide families, to organize German courses, or to welcome children, for example, to school. At the same time, however, it is also true that around two thirds of Austrian communities have not yet received any asylum seekers. So if we are talking about shared, common solidarity, then this appeal should be addressed not only to other EU countries, but to all of us. We are all the EU, we are all Austria! We are all required in view of this cruel war in Syria. We all know the pictures of the head carver IS and of the Assads barrel bombs, we don't need to mention them here. Today, we are dealing with a federal constitution law which, I say quite openly, must not be applied at all, which will not be applied at all if all the federal states and all the municipalities bear joint and solidarity responsibility. Unfortunately, this is not the case at present. We all know, however, that, in the light of this law which is pending for decision-making, a lot has been done about the fact that in many municipalities mayors and mayors have become active in order to create shelters for those seeking protection themselves and in good time, so that the Minister of the Interior does not have to resort to the right of entry. I repeat here what has already been mentioned by some previous speakers because, I think, one cannot repeat it often enough: As long as a state fulfils its refugee accommodation rate, as long as a political district fulfils its refugee accommodation rate and as long as a municipality fulfils the accommodation rate, accommodation places will not be created by the Interior Minister. A joint amendment was presented today by Mr Gerstl. I would just like to point out an important point that will come with this amendment to the BVG. Art. 3 para. 1 the following shall be added by this application: “Before the decision is adopted” – should the right of enforcement be given – “and at least one week before the start of the accommodation, the Federal Minister for the Interior has to inform the mayor of the municipality concerned and the district administration authority of this project.” This has been a very positive and necessary step in addition to many innovations that come with the Constitutional Law. I would also like to express my criticism of those accommodations in which, unfortunately, communities have been put before the completion of the facts in which there was no contact on the part of the Ministry of the Interior before the accommodation of several applicants for protection in a municipality and which suddenly said: Today, 50 asylum seekers, 70 asylum seekers, 100 asylum seekers or whatever. With this provision, we ensure that previous or unfortunately previous horuck actions are held in the accommodation of the Ministry of Interior and that the municipalities, the mayors and mayors as well as the district administration authorities are integrated and informed in good time so that information events for better living together can also come to a good outcome for all those living in a community. In this sense, it is an important step forward to address the common and solidarity sharing and supply of protection seekers at European level. I'm convinced: Together we can do this! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e17032	Before I give the floor to Mrs Lintl: Mrs Korun, the request you wanted to make? - I understand, all right. [[Abg. Korun: This amendment has already been tabled by Mr Gerstl!]] Mrs Lintl spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e17064	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! With this common red-black-green application, you have a clear opportunity to legislate and, by doing so, make a massive contribution to the proven Austrian constitution. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] With this empowerment law, you are putting a death penalty on federalism by simply overcoming the concerns and reservations of citizens, countries and communities. In the future, the Federal Government has the power to use a regulation unilaterally to push up the now proposed municipal target value of 1.5 percent at any time if there is a need. The Federal Government can, in turn, adopt this by means of a regulation. The countries have only a right of non-binding opinion. Given the international migration to Austria and the powerlessness of the government towards this situation, it can be assumed that the percentage will be very high. The next restriction of local and municipal competences is the fact that the government can access not only state-owned properties, but also which can rent or buy in the hurry procedure, provided that there is no property in a municipality or no building in the federal property. Thus, against the will of the population, the country or the community, and without control, asylum seekers or refugees can be settled in the villages and cities. In the end, the federal division of competence becomes in Art. 3 break through – it is through the countries and the municipalities. The countries and municipalities in their turn are helpless to this situation. There are no procedures, authorisation or advertising possibilities and, above all, no complaints for the citizens, countries and communities concerned. The rule of law is turned off. This is an absoluteistic procedure that I do not agree with. According to item 2 of the agenda, the Coalition's own-initiative proposal, the level of penalties for tractors from six months to five years is to be applied if at least three persons are towed. That's a half-hearted action. I ask you, Minister of Justice, how it is intended to deter tugs, that now instead of ten people, only three persons for a sentence according to § 114 para. 3 Foreign Police Act sufficient. Then perhaps only more than two people are illegally brought across the border? [[Call:Well, more]] How inventive human smugglers are, they have proved many times in the past – with deadly consequences. I will agree with the initiative proposal, which I see as a half step – but in the right direction – but I will again call for an effective and dissuasive criminal framework for tow criminals, because only with the highest determination can effective action be taken against these brutal tractors.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e17107	Next, Mr Schellhorn. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e17128	Mr President. Estimated ministers on the government bank! I would like to remind Mr Rosenkranz that the truth is so important to him, and Mr Korun has already mentioned it, once again – if the truth is so important to us – why these cuts are mentioned by single mothers – by Mr Strache – why these cuts are necessary in the social field: because of your responsibility at the hypo. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Podgorschek.]] It is not the refugees, it is not the asylum seekers, but in this respect it is your sole responsibility! We want to hold that up again. [[Congratulation with NEOS and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Darmann: You have no idea!]] [[Abg. Jarolim: Truth hurts!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Muttons.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] I would like to begin by stressing that we are here or that I am a little shaken about the Taferl “Asyl is not an à la carte” or “Asyl à la carte” or as it is said – I have forgotten this because I have pushed it out. [[Abg. Glavischig-Piesczek: Truth à la carte!]] How cynical do you have to be? How's that going? A la carte is a luxury problem – to be able to choose. They can't choose, you all know. I believe that you will still be stuck in the neck of these bites, namely this attempt to go to bed with the FPÖ, at the latest at the weekend. [[Congratulation with NEOS and Greens.]] If we talk about an overload and if Mr Lopatka says that the EU is required, I will give you the right thing, but unfortunately it is also a small overload for the government bank. I'm trying to make this clear. If we assume that 11 000 asylum seekers came to Austria on Monday alone and at the same time the connections to Germany have been blocked or stopped, I assume that there is a small overload in communication with Germany and that something has to be done on the government bank. Finally, we need to address appropriate strategies. I believe that even Klubobmann Lopatka is required – because the ÖVP is also on the government bank – when we talk about the municipal government. This is basically the big problem, because it has also tipped black and blue. In 2004, as far as I remember, you handed over the core competence to countries. Since then we have the problem of mayors who say: Not with me! The solution would be to introduce this percentage scheme, that simply every municipality should take up one percent of the population status. In this way, integration would work best. If the community does not, it either has to pay a ponale or receives less of community compensation. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Höbart.]] That would be the solution. Some time ago – as well as your voters – we made it. [[Abg. Höbart: Of course, yes!]] I recall that there were more than 100,000 in Austria during the Balkan War. It worked very well because it was a family accommodation because integration works best in small units. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] These large-scale care units are not only leading to a refugee crisis that we are now dealing with, but are leading to a major integration crisis – it is a warning. [[Abg. Höbart: Asylum law is a right to stay on time, accept this, Mr Colleague.]] So there's a warning to be warned of. That's it. They should not ignore the fact that, as a result, clear means of intervention and enforcement must take place in relation to this care unit. I absolutely welcome the coordination body with Mr Konrad. This is necessary, it was or is probably a solution to this overload. But: What's going on? Mr Konrad said perfectly correctly that the standards must be lowered. [[call to the FPÖ.]] I can tell you from my own experience of three standards that are completely absurd. A member of the government, Lydia, comes to me, visits the home and says: We need a thermometer in the dining room so it's not too cold. In the double bed a board has to be in the middle, because they cannot sleep in together. There must be a second box in the double room – although there is a huge built-in cabinet there – because there must be two boxes. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Muttons.]] These standards must be lowered so that these refugees have a place to stay so that they can get away from the tents and in permanent accommodation before winter. That is absolutely necessary. That's why it's absolutely necessary... [[Abg. Fekter: That's country standard!]] If you are talking about national standards, we already have the problem, Mr Fekter, as in the fire protection system: That's the federal madness we're encountering. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] That's exactly what we've been suing for years. They still call it good that Upper Austria and Salzburg play against each other. This is ridiculous and is done on the back of the asylum seekers. I don't think that's all right. [[Interlocutory calls from Deimek and Fekter.]] I would therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e17314	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place, and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e17390	Next speaker: Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e17412	Mr President. Minister! Mr. Ministers! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! This law, which is being passed here in the House today, is a mere demise of the countries and communities. This regulation is a force to congratulate the municipalities and the countries. Politically persecuted people must be helped, that is out of question. It is also important and necessary – we have already heard today – that tractors are laid the craftsmanship. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the message of the German Chancellor Merkel, who sent her to all over the world, is disastrous. This mass immigration will have a fatal impact on the social and cultural fabric of our country. We are happy to help, ladies and gentlemen, that has already been proved to be the most frequently, politically persecuted people heard help, but we cannot take up the whole world. It is very important – and we have heard this today – that local aid is provided in the countries of origin of refugees, and there must be no savings. Where is the willingness of the rich Arab countries, of America? This Federal Constitutional Act is a mere forceful congratulation to force the municipalities to take in 1.5 percent of their population of refugees. I strongly reject such a course. Asylum is a protection on time and not unlimited. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e17445	Mrs Gusenbauer-Jäger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e17466	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr. Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! Austria, Europe, half the world is facing a situation it has not had for a long, very long time. This situation can in fact be described as an exceptional situation. Thousands, hundreds of thousands of refugees are on their way from the Middle East to Europe. Every day we see pictures of desperate, determined, but also hopeful people who have created unimaginable strata. On the other hand, we also see helpers – these are private, NGOs, aid organizations, public authorities, police, federal army and so on – who do unimaginable things. And we must do everything we can to ensure that those people who are in need of protection and help, i.e. asylum seekers, asylum seekers and so on, are decently accommodated. From certain corners one hears again and again that the government is just watching and doing nothing. That is why we are adopting this law today. Legislative and executive are very target-oriented here. I am mayor myself, already have asylum seekers, it is raised to 50 people, and we have built up a totally organized helper system. It's so neat that I have to thank everyone here again who helps. Starting with 50 helpers, we already have 100 helpers – I just got an email before – and this is worth mentioning here in Parliament. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and representatives of ÖVP and Greens.]] The fact that the communities are put into duty here may seem somewhat unusual. But apparently – Mr Pendl has already said that – if all had fulfilled their duty, this law would not be necessary. I also consider it necessary. The fact that mayors are excited only comes from a corner, from a particular political party. [[Abg. Schimanek: May I tell you...!]] And then there is political change, perhaps also by the Floriani mayor, who has not received any or almost no refugees at all. I don't know why they're upset. And if the quota, the acceptable quota of 1.5 percent is fulfilled for the communities, then the Federation does not intervene anyway. I therefore do not know why this excitement exists. To illustrate: If a 10 000-inhabitant municipality takes up 150 asylum seekers or asylum seekers, that will be to be done by this community. We also currently have a large number of municipalities that fulfil or even over-fulfil their duty, and I thank those who fulfil this duty. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] What some communities may still not know or do not want to do, perhaps also some Members, is: Two municipalities from a political district may also be grouped together and meet the quota if a municipality or even several cannot fulfil the quota for legitimate reasons. [[Abg. Fekter: Also several!]] I would like to make two points for the local authorities, which has already been discussed today: The mayors, if they cannot fulfil the quota for legitimate reasons, may not become legal criminals. And: The local authorities should also be financially compensated for this. I am convinced that a large number of local authorities in Austria are fulfilling the admission rate out of voluntary pieces, thus giving Austria the reputation we are all very proud of. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e17529	The next item is the speech by Mr Schmid. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e17551	Mr President. Mr. Minister! On the subject of right of access: According to the right of access, the accommodation rate of 1.5 percent of the population should be valid in each municipality with more than 2,000 inhabitants. This quota represents a minimum mark, as we have already heard a few times today, which is flexible, according to the number of refugees. With regard to the use of unbuilt land and the target number of asylum seekers with a maximum of 450 persons, it is assumed that there is a very dirty provision. The sizes of the plots are not indicated, nor is there any difference between ownership or rental conditions. If the federal government now has a possession relationship in a municipality and if an object or property is rented in accordance with the right of entry, a municipality above its 1.5 percent rate would be taxable with another 900 asylum seekers. The question appears to be justified: Are such figures reasonable to the population? - I don't think so. The right of access is therefore not to be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e17575	The next item is the speech by Mr Singer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e17596	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! We certainly – and this has been said several times – have exceptional conditions, and these extraordinary conditions also require extraordinary measures. The Constitutional Act, which is debated today, constitutes a temporary emergency measure – and I stress: a temporary emergency measure – until the end of 2018. From my point of view, there is a need for a close-up between the federal, state and local authorities, and we are all called for together. As mayor, I clearly recognise the need for all communities to contribute to the management of refugee flows. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of SPÖ and Greens.]] From my point of view, the planned municipal target value of 1.5 percent of the population is also acceptable. I am also convinced that, in particular, smaller communities are able to welcome and care for refugees of war in the planned number. However, I am very glad that the amendment tabled by Mr Gerstl makes it clear that the failure to comply with the Community directive does not entail any legal, in particular no criminal and cost-related consequences. Why? – Small communities in particular often do not have the necessary buildings available to meet the local target value. It was also in my community that I too could not have fulfilled the quota with the buildings available to us as a community, only by offering a private landlord could we have reached this indicative value. These provisions of the amendment have also enabled important demands of the Federal Government to be met or the criticism to be eroded on this point. Ladies and gentlemen! This has already been mentioned several times today: Many communities have made important contributions to the shelter of refugees in recent months and weeks. In cooperation with NGOs, with civil society, excellent care services have been built up, and I really say thank you very much for that. However, I am also convinced that this process will also be successful in all other communities. Finally, ladies and gentlemen: The accommodation of war refugees is one thing, the time after recognition as a refugee another. It is right to meet the refugees with humanity, to provide them with protection and security. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: These are business refugees!]] It is honest, but it is also to say that war refugees must return to their homeland when the reason for their escape falls away when peace returns there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e17651	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e17672	Ladies and gentlemen! This law puts an end to an unworthy hack. I remember the spring: The Minister of the Interior has accused the countries of not making the quarters available. The countries have pointed to the Minister of the Interior. The FPÖ is now bringing into play a debate of competence. You can say: All of this doesn't interest the Austrians, they have exactly two interests. The first is that refugees are not homeless and are accommodated. When you talk to the Austrians: They are quite proud of this tradition of helping; Hungary, Prague spring, Bosnia and Herzegovina, also Afghanistan, is often referred to. I also think that the FPÖ does wrong to the Austrians if it always acts as if one would not want to help. That's not true. When you call out: What if you don't want to?, that's what you're wrong with the Austrians. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] No, I meet many Austrians who want to help. The second need: The Austrians want to be able to deliver the integration performance in the reception of refugees. That means it must be the size of the place in relation to the number of refugees. That's exactly what the law is doing. I drove a taxi driver in Lofer, he said: We have 20 refugees – Lofer doesn't have a total of 2,000 inhabitants – they're not a problem. We want to help. Of course, if we had 300 or 400, we wouldn't do that, but we'll get 20 of them. And this very spirit follows the law: First, it ensures that in the future there are enough quarters to end the hack, and second, that the integration of refugees can also succeed in the places. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The second point is the discussion about the aggravation of the tractor paragraph. The terrible events of Parndorf with 71 dead have led us into thinking that it is criminal for people to flee under such conditions. However, it is also clear what the purpose of this paragraph is, namely the body, life and health of the refugees affected. This very spirit must follow the law. Therefore, it is less crucial whether the increased criminal framework now reduces the number of those towed from ten to three, but it is always crucial in what circumstances those affected are towed. In this sense, the increased criminal framework must also be understood; if someone is towed under particularly dangerous circumstances, an increased criminal framework will apply. In one point, however, there is a gap, i.e. when tractors are exploiting, i.e. either a disproportionately high fee or require sex services from female refugees. The law doesn't react at all. In fact, under these circumstances, an increased criminal framework is already being applied. That's why we believe that there, where this sharpening of the towing parachute is concerned, it should actually go into emptiness and sit down where, under particularly exploiting circumstances, action is being taken. That is why we are also making a request on this subject, which is intended to ensure exactly that. The request – it sounds very technical, but I have to read it so that it is introduced as well – is: [[Quoted print version removed]] It all sounds very technical. This should ensure that the tractor section is set up at the right time, whenever particularly dangerous and exploitable to the protection seeker is done. But one thing is clear – and I am sure that the Minister of Justice, as I know him, and I have a similar view: Criminal law alone will not be enough against dangerous and exploitable tractors. As long as there is flight as there are reasons for escape, there will also be a market for tractors. Therefore, the only answer that the towing will escape from the ground is a legal possibility to obtain asylum in Europe. That's the big challenge, and that's the most effective hit against towing. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e17774	The amendment is sufficiently supported, properly introduced and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e17856	Next speaker: Mr Wittmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e17877	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. Minister! High house! We are now adopting a law on the right of entry into force of the federal government in relation to the allocation of refugees to the countries to the municipalities. I do not understand at all how such a law can be described as unconstitutional, just as Mr Strache has done, if we are to pass a constitutional law here as a constitutional legislator. Mr Strache also said in his speech that it would be so beautiful in Hungary and no one would come anymore as there was a fence there. – Then I wonder why about the Hungarian Border as many people are fleeing as before. That means that it does not help to set up a fence, that does not solve the problem, but the problem remains the same. Despite fences, we now have the same number of refugees on the Hungarian border, so we do not solve the problem. Now we are making a law in which there are three escape clauses for those affected. First of all, we must maintain that there is an Article 15a agreement with the countries that have decided to accept quotas. These Article 15a agreements have not been complied with by the countries. Therefore, as a federal legislator, if the country's reliability is no longer given – it used to be the case when one has reached Article 15a agreements, then they have been observed; now they are not being observed – act. The League must act. And when the quota is fulfilled, it is the first escape clause. That is, they only need to comply with the Article 15a agreement, and no one is assigned to the country anymore. The country does not fulfil the quota, but the district, there is the second escape clause, because then the district is exempt from allocation. And the district does not fulfill the quota, but the community, then the community is the escape clause. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fekter.]] That is, anyone who is a bit active – because 1.5 percent is just a little bit – can be accused of this allocation. That means he doesn't do anything but help a little. And when I hear that you're invading the building order! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] – So, ladies and gentlemen from FPÖ, when considering whether I can save a human life or change the rules of construction, it must be clear that one does not opt for bureaucracy, but for people! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and representatives of ÖVP and Greens.]] I would like to draw your attention to this legal balance. If you act here with the building order that on the one hand the mayor is restricted in his powers to interpret the building order, but on the other hand people do not know how to survive – and we are discussing the bureaucracy that is restricted by the mayors!Unknown term type: "%s".? So, friends, I don't understand that anymore. No one in the population understands this either. This is a perfect – how should I say? – heartless, emotionless access to this problem. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jarolim.]] And you're pushing the building order before you deal with saving people's lives. So you have to explain this argument to me once! That's what I think last-class. In this sense, I think, this is a good law and a good approach to finding a solution here.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e17950	I call Mr Ertlschweiger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e17971	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Wittmann, I think, has put it to the fore and has put a lot of light on the right of access. Ladies and gentlemen! Austria faces a huge challenge through the flow of refugees: Nobody, nobody can say what's going to happen to us. But one thing is clear: The pictures we see and the reports we read and hear in the media trigger deep emotions in all of us. [[President Bures takes over the presidency again.]] Each of us knows we're only at the beginning of a state of emergency. That's just the beginning. But we must not give in to illusion, to believe that a country alone can cope with this flow of refugees, that a country alone can deal with this crisis. What we need is a pan-European shoulder closure. We need pan-European change, and we need a pan-European solution to reduce migration. This is just starting with the protection of the EU's external borders and the establishment of hotspots with initial recording centres and ending with a fixed quota in the EU, and also with the fact that we are finally moving back those riders who have found their way to us for economic reasons. The refugee question is a question that Austria must ask itself. We can't turn away and try to sit down on the problem. We must act, ladies and gentlemen. As a policy, we are called on to take action and set it up to solve problems. This right of access, which we decide today, is such a measure. My colleague, Mr Pendl, has done this very well before. It is a temporary measure which only applies if the countries fail to fulfil the quota agreed with the Confederation. And exceptional circumstances require exceptional measures, said Mr Gerstl. Winter soars. We urgently need quarters. We need the support of the countries and communities. Only in this way can we meet the enormous challenge together in a national shoulder closure. I say to you: The communities are the backbone of our society. Many mayors say: Yeah, we want to help. That is why I am convinced that the integration and supply of the 80 000 asylum seekers, which we are expected to have in the country by the end of the year, can be achieved especially in the municipalities. Colleague Schellhorn has done quite properly, integration works better in small units than in large bearings. These 80 000 people in need of assistance and protection must be integrated as soon as possible. Only if we quickly manage to reduce language barriers and also integrate people into society will we also succeed in reducing fears and resentments in the population. Integration works this way. The right of access – I say it again – is a temporary emergency measure that we have taken, because we are going the way of humanitarian reason. In addition to many other measures that are necessary, it will help us to agree on the enormous challenge posed by the flow of refugees. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e18025	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Muttons. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e18047	Madam President. My lady and my lord on the government bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Our most pressing challenge – that has often been said – will be in the near future to bring people who have been driven out of their homes by cruel wars into safe and decent accommodation. I'm sure we'll do this. But we have to act fast before winter comes. It must not happen to us that refugees must live in tents, in need of tents at snow, ice and minus temperatures. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Winter is coming faster than you believe!]] Ladies and gentlemen! This law gives us the opportunity to help quickly in the event of an emergency and to provide decent accommodation unbureaucratic. With this law, we ensure that, despite the haste, not individual cities and regions are left alone with accommodation, but that we approach this humanitarian action in Austria in solidarity and in common. It's feasible. Austria can contribute and Austria wants to make a contribution. This is demonstrated by the many volunteers who give tireless help, and this is shown by the many companies in Austria, who are committed to protecting those seeking protection. But this also shows the cities and municipalities, which have been very hearty, unbureaucratic and ultimately with a lot of creativity. In recent weeks, in the last few days, incredible things have really been done. That is why I also hope that this law will not have to be used, because there will already be sufficient accommodation. That's my hope. Austria can and wants to help. But fair and solidarity rules are also needed in Europe. No country, no country should get out of this responsibility. We must work together again in Europe. This includes a fair distribution of protection seekers. The redistribution of 120 000 refugees decided yesterday is a first step, but a small one. This will include external border control, but in accordance with human rights. These include hotspots at the EU's external borders, where protection seekers can be reasonably first provided and an orderly asylum process. This includes, above all, a strong European foreign and security policy, with which we cover the neighbouring countries of Syria, which account for almost 90 percent of Syrian refugees. We must work together with the United States, with Russia, Iran, the Arab countries, in particular with Saudi Arabia and Turkey for a rapid end to the civil war. Europe can and must play an important role in coping with this refugee crisis and in restoring its home to the Syrians and Syrians. We can do this if we act in solidarity. In Austria, we are now creating an important prerequisite for this, and we hope that we will also be moving forward in Brussels today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e18086	Mrs Diesner-Wais is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e18108	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mrs. Federal Minister! Mein Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would also like to warmly welcome the farmers from Ottenschlag district in the Waldviertel. [[General condolences.]] We are at a time when the departure of many people from other countries to Europe takes place. This is a time that my generation has not yet experienced in the form, and it is a huge challenge for Europe, but also for our Republic, the countries, the communities and the population. In dealing with this problem, we move between the moral and legal obligation on the one hand and the actual feasibility on the other. That is why this law is being passed today. We want to help, of course, because Austria is a country that already has a long tradition to help – also across borders. But I think we must also be very sensitive and recognize the concerns and fears of the Austrian population. And take them seriously. We also know that many economic refugees are striving for Europe on the train. We should clearly distinguish whether it is asylum or immigration. It is an exceptional situation that is now in place, and sustainable solutions are needed. Sustainable solutions can only be found together in Europe, but especially in local countries. But until then, of course, we also need to find solutions in Austria. This law allows us to create emergency quarters in the federal states, but only if the quota is not fulfilled. This is always done in consultation with the communities. The right of entry shall only apply if the country or community fails to fulfil the quota. Thus, the Ministry can use and use its own buildings, barracks, properties and properties accordingly. I would also like to say that it is just an emergency measure for a short period of time until 2018. In doing so, we want to help those in need of help and protection. But we have also – and this has already been addressed by my previous speakers – made sure that we find the change in the concerns of the communities in this law. So there has also been a request that there will be no cost-related or criminal consequences for the communities, because no one wants to go over it. I would also like to thank all those who have done excellent work at this point: all the municipalities, local representatives, mayors, associations, parishes, cultural associations, the Red Cross, all the aid organizations, the police, the federal army and all those who have already done a lot in this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e18159	Next, Mr Jarolim. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e18180	It's nice that the Ottenschlagers are here! My mother's ottenschlagrin. I hope that in the community everything is fine. Ladies and gentlemen! We have reached the end of this longer discussion, and I believe that, apart from this tense fervor of the FPÖ, we must also say the following: We are on the right track with all the measures we have taken. We have been confronted with a disaster. You can't expect all of this to be arranged in a general way. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Check if the voters see it that way!]] What we've done up to date is good. What happens internationally is also good. Finally, it must be said that Europe has taken up the task of redistributing on this issue. The Commission has taken the necessary decisions. We know that we will therefore have the prospect that refugees can find accommodation throughout Europe in the future, and that is positive. We also know that we are finally thinking of helping in those countries where this evil has actually begun, namely in Iraq and Syria, because the international community is slowly getting ready to stop getting around with the IS and other terrorist organizations. That's why you have to say: What happened in the meantime is worth seeing and positive compared to all that has broken in here about us all. I can actually do relatively little with this constant nostrils. You have to do one thing: I am completely incomprehensible, for example, why a Mr. Erdoğan in Turkey attacked those – actually – allies of us, namely the Kurds who do the work there by fighting IS, from behind, and for example last week caused 55 deaths by attacks by the army. I think it would be a European commitment to step in and take action against it in order to act really meaningfully and not to support anyone who wants to win a choice with all the means. [[In the case of the SPÖ, representatives of the ÖVP and the Agg. Windbüchler-Sauschill.]] I think that we can therefore be a little proud of what we have done so far in these very difficult times. We should also inform the population of this and not let these benefits be small. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e18225	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall be voting on each of the Committee's proposals separately. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 1: Draft Constitutional Act on the accommodation and distribution of aliens in need of assistance and protection in 792 of the Supplements. There is a supplementary or amendment tabled by the honourable Member, Mr Mag. Schieder, Dr. Lopatka, Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek, Dr. Scherak, colleagues before. In addition, Mr Strache, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, asked Members to submit a draft of the anti-substantial law after the end of the procedure under Rule 42 B-VG, but before his approval by the President of the Federal Republic of Germany. I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the amendment or amendment referred to above and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law which have not yet been voted on. The vote on the request for a referendum will be taken in accordance with § 84 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure shall take place after the third reading. Since the present draft law, as well as the said supplementary or amendment proposal, concerns a Federal Constitutional Act, I first put it within the meaning of § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. Deputies Mag. Schieder, Dr. Lopatka, Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek, Dr. Scherak, colleagues and colleagues have tabled an additional or amendment concerning Articles 1, 2 and 3. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a positive sign. – This is accepted by the majority. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Here, too, I expressly note the constitutionally required two-thirds majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of As this request was made by 20 Members, the vote must be taken. That's why I'm doing this. The ballots to be used are in the drawers of the Members' House and bear the names of the Members and the name "Yes" – these are the grey ballots – or "No" – which are the pink ones. Only those official votes can be used for the vote. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put the vote in the votes cast. [[Unrest in the meeting room.]] – Ladies and gentlemen, we are in the voting process! I would ask those Members who give their third-reading approval to this draft law to put “Yes” votes, those who do not agree with it into the urn. I'm looking for you to make sure you just put one vote in the urn. I now ask Mr Zanger's author to start the call for name; Mr Buchmayr will replace him later.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e18340	The vote will end. The officials of the House responsible for this task will now make the number of votes under the supervision of the Correspondents. The meeting will be suspended for this purpose. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e18379	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote. Members cast: 167; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 123, ‘No’ votes: 44. [[Correction of the vote by President Bures, see p.183.]] This is the majority accepted. In turn, I expressly define the two-thirds majority required for constitutional purposes. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[Abg. Hübner: A severe defeat of the Austrian population!]] According to § 66 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Alm, Amon, Antoni, Aslan, Aubauer, Bacher Walter, Bayr, Becher Ruth, Berlakovich, Brosz, Brunner, Buchmayr, Bures; Cap; Diesner-Wais, strike-through; Ecker, Ehmann, El Habbassi, Ertlschweiger, Eßl, Fazekas, Fichtinger Klaus Uwe, Fekter, Fichtinger Angela; Gahr, Gerstl, Gessl-Ranftl, Glavischnig-Piesczek, Greiner Karin, Grillitsch, Groiß, Grossmann, Gusenbauer-Jäger; Hakel Elisabeth, Hammer Michael, Hanger Andreas, Haubner, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Himmelbauer, Hofinger Manfred, Höfinger Johann, Holzinger-Vogtenhuber; Jarolim; Karl, Katzian, Keck, Kirchgatterer, Knes, Kogler, Königsberger-Ludwig, Kopf, Korun, Krainer Kai Jan, Krist, Kucharovich, Kucher, Kuntzl; Lettenbichler, Lipitsch, Loacker, Lopatka, Lueger Angela; Matznetter, Maurer, Mayer, Meinl-Risinger, Moser, Muchitsch, Mückstein, Musiol, Muttonen; Obernosterer, kilnauer, ottenschlager; Pendl, Pfurtscheller, Pillow, Pirklhuber, Plessl, Pock, Preiner, Prince; Rädler, Rasinger, Rauch Johannes, Rossmann; Schabhüttl, Scharak, Schieder, Schittenhelm, Schmid Julian, Schönegger, Schopf, Schultes, Schwentner, Sieber Norbert, Singer Johann, Spindelberger, Steinacker, Steinhauser, Strasser, Strolz; Tumandl, daughters, door; sub-railers; Vetter, Vogl; Walser, Wenninger, Willi, Wimmer, Windbühler-Souschill, Wittmann, Wöinger, Wurm Gisela; Yılmaz; Zakostelsky, Zinggl. With ‘No’, MEPs voted: Anger; Belakovich-Jenewein, Bösch; Darmann, Deimek, Dietrich, Doppler, Fuchs; Hackl Heinz-Peter, Hafenecker, Hagen, Haider, Hauser, Höbart, Hofer, Hübner; Jannach; Karlsböck, Kassinger, Kitzmüller, Kumpitsch; Lausch, Lintl, Lugar Robert; Mölzer, Mühlberghuber; Neubauer Werner; Podgorschek; Smoke Walter, Riemer, Rosary Barbara, Rosary Walter; Schellenbacher, Schenk, Schimanek, Schmid Gerhard, Stefan, Steger, Steinbichler, Strache; Refusal torpher, Worm Peter; singer.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e18441	We shall now proceed to the vote on the request made by Mr Strache, ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with Article 84 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council, to submit to the contested act after the end of the procedure under Rule 42 of the Federal Constitutional Act, but before its approval by the President of the Federal Government. There was also a call for a vote on this matter. As this request was made by 20 Members, the vote must be taken. That's why I'm doing this. The procedure is known to you. I would like to ask those Members who support Mr Strache's request, ladies and gentlemen, to vote in favour of putting 'no' vote in the mood. Please make sure to throw only one vote! I am now seeking the writing to begin with the name call.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e18501	The vote will end. I am again interrupting the sitting to count the vote. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e18541	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the results of the vote. Members cast: 166; of which "Yes" votes 43, "No" votes 123. The present application is therefore rejected. According to § 66 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Anger; Belakovich-Jenewein, Bösch; Darmann, Deimek, Dietrich, Doppler, Fuchs; Hackl Heinz-Peter, Hafenecker, Hagen, Haider, Hauser, Höbart, Hofer, Hübner; Jannach; Karlsböck, Kassinger, Kitzmüller, Kumpitsch; Lausch, Lintl, Lugar Robert; Mölzer, Mühlberghuber; Neubauer Werner; Podgorschek; smoke Walter, Riemer, Rosary Barbara, Rosary Walter; Schellenbacher, Schenk, Schimanek, Schmid Gerhard, Stefan, Steger, Steinbichler, Strache; Refusal torpher, Worm Peter; Singer. Members voted with ‘No’: Alm, Amon, Antoni, Aslan, Aubauer, Bacher Walter, Bayr, Becher Ruth, Berlakovich, Brosz, Brunner, Buchmayr, Bures; Cap; Diesner-Wais, strike-through; Ecker, Ehmann, El Habbassi, Eßl, Fazekas, Fichtinger Klaus Uwe, Fekter, Fichtinger Angela; Gahr, Gerstl, Gessl-Ranftl, Glavischnig-Piesczek, Greiner Karin, Grillitsch, Groiß, Grossmann, Gusenbauer-Jäger; Hakel Elisabeth, Hammer Michael, Hanger Andreas, Haubner, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Himmelbauer, Hofinger Manfred, Höfinger Johann, Holzinger-Vogtenhuber; Jarolim; Karl, Katzian, Keck, Kirchgatterer, Knes, Kogler, Königsberger-Ludwig, Kopf, Korun, Krainer Kai Jan, Krist, Kucharovich, Kucher, Kuntzl; Lettenbichler, Lipitsch, Loacker, Lopatka, Lueger Angela; Matznetter, Maurer, Mayer, Meinl-Risinger, Moser, Muchitsch, Mückstein, Musiol, Muttonen; Obernosterer, kilnauer, ottenschlager; Pendl, Pfurtscheller, Pillow, Pirklhuber, Plessl, Pock, Preiner, Prince; Rädler, Rasinger, Rauch Johannes, Rossmann; Schabhüttl, Scharak, Schieder, Schittenhelm, Schmid Julian, Schönegger, Schopf, Schultes, Schwentner, Sieber Norbert, Singer Johann, Spindelberger, Steinacker, Steinhauser, Strasser, Strolz; Tumandl, daughters, door; sub-railers; Vavrik, Vetter, Vogl; Walser, Wenninger, Willi, Wimmer, Windbühler-Souschill, Wittmann, Wöinger, Wurm Gisela; Yılmaz; Zakostelsky, Zinggl.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e18720	We shall now proceed to further votes. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Meinl-Reisinger, colleagues and colleagues on private accommodation of asylum seekers in the admission procedure. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 2: Draft Federal Act amending the 2005 Foreign Police Act 793 of the Supplements. The Members of Parliament have Magnificence here. Korun, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment. I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the amendment and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Mag. Korun, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment on paragraphs 1 and 2. If you're right, I'm looking for a sign. – This is the minority; rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those Members of the House who are here for an acceptable sign. – This is the majority; accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. – This is the majority; accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Pendl, Mr Amon, Mr Amon, on the evaluation of the provisions against tow. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 109.) This concludes the voting process, and I interrupt the sitting until the urgent question has been called at 15.45 p.m. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e18834	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I will resume the interrupted session. [[15:45:17]] Request for urgent procedure by Dr. Peter Pilz, colleagues at the Federal Minister for Justice concerning the Shadow Cabinet and the Indictment Bank (6523/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e18870	We come to the urgent debate on the written question 6523/J. As this has now been done to all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the author. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e19286	I declare Mr. Dr. Pilz as the first questioner on the grounds of the question referred for a preliminary ruling pursuant to § 93 para. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e19308	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have not proposed it on and on its own, but there is nothing left to me but to discuss a question of the Rules of Procedure at the very beginning. I refer to § 2 of our Rules of Procedure, which is surtitled with “loss of mandate”, and I quote briefly: ‘A Member of Parliament will lose his mandate: (...) if he’ – and this is the case – ‘30 days without a valid reason recognised by the National Council (section 11 para. 4) has failed to attend the meetings of the National Council and has failed to comply with the request of the President to appear or justify his absence within 30 days after 30 days to him publicly and in the National Council.’ [[Call at the SPÖ:Hear, hear!]] It is – nobody will be surprised – about Deputies Kickl. Mr Kickl is not apologised, nor was he apologised in the last social committees, nor was he apologised at the last plenary sessions, and from the decent and capable Member Kickl has obviously become the outgoing and volatile Member Kickl. [[It was in favour of the Greens as well as of representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Now, of course, for all of us, the question is: how do we bring Kickl here? , because there are no grounds for escape in the National Council's Rules of Procedure – so we have to comply with the Rules of Procedure. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Colleague Pilz...!]] [[Rejoicing with the Greens and with representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP]] [[Call the SPÖ:... apply for asylum!]] Member Kickl has already systematically avoided Parliament – I do not know whether it has more to do with the person of the Minister of Justice or with us – and then it is necessary to proceed in accordance with § 2. I appeal to you, Madam President, to consider whether the right time has come for the President to send this public invitation to the outgoing Member, Kickl, so that he can be reminded of his duties and if he does not comply with them... He casts well – we come back to this kind of cashing later in detail; this is what distinguishes the representatives of one particular party here in front of all the others –, he casts good, but he does not come, he does not take his responsibility, he flees from this Parliament. This is not so acceptable either politically or from the Rules of Procedure. I do not understand that a Member of Parliament who is politically on the run from Parliament is wasting taxpayers' money. [[As a result of the Commission's proposal, the Commission has decided to extend the scope of the common position to the Member States on the basis of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in the field of equal treatment for men and women in the field ……]] So, what's this about? We have here – and I am already very excited about the answers – an active member of the Federal Government, to whom we have addressed a number of material questions, and I count on a number of material answers. But here – or here – we also have something very special, namely a number of so-called shadow ministers. In the Freedom Party, it is common – Klubobmann Strache is now also absent – that shadow ministers are appointed by the clubman and party leader. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] One of these shadow ministers is the shadow minister Kickl – absent; Shadow Social Minister Kickl. Another is shadow finance minister Dobernig – currently employed elsewhere; I come back to it. [[Oh-Rufe at the ÖVP]] [[Call at the SPÖ:Hear, hear!]] There is shadow foreign minister Hübner, on whose blessed activity in connection with the Jemah Islamiyah I will then enter later. [[Oh-run at the ÖVP]] Let's stick to the problem we're dealing with. Today, we will discuss with the Federal Minister for Justice whether the conditions have already been met that National Council member Kickl – in presence or absence – be qualified as an accused person and a request for extradition is made to the National Council. I just remember one: There is an application and authorisation note, and in this application and approval note, the public prosecutor's office, the economic and corruption prosecutor's office, led Member Kickl from the outset as accused. [[the speaker shall keep a document up to date]] This act, which, according to our legal situation, is rightly a report act, has, of course, gone to the Ministry of Justice; first to the Chief State Prosecutorship, then to the Ministry of Justice. Something happened there, which I don't want to qualify now: There was an instruction not to lead him as an accused person, but as a victim – the victim Kickl. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: What? Such instructions...!]] We'll come back to this victim system. Now the Minister of Justice – and I think this is perfectly justified and objectively justified – has requested a report again. My knowledge remains that the economic and corruption prosecutor's office is still of the opinion that MP Kickl would be heard as an accused person. The decision is still open; before it comes to Parliament, this must be decided in the Ministry of Justice. We will then take note of this decision to assess politically if there is something to be assessed politically, but we already have the right to talk about what actually happened. There is a system, and the system is an element of a cycle. You know, I've been busy for many, many years now – not because it's so funny, but because it's so necessary – with free corruptions. If you let everything happen, it turns out that the Freedom Party has been the key party of corruption in Austria for more than a decade at least in the political sense. There's something like a free circulation – that's obviously a rather law of this party; I'm surprised it's not in the party's statute –: Phase 1 – opposition bank; Phase 2 – Government Bank; Phase 3 – Indictment bank. This is the free circulation, and it goes on and on again and again and again. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] If that's a little affair, you could say, Let's leave that up to the court! But we've counted together, we've made the attempt – Gabi Moser in the many areas she's worked on, from BUWOG to Telekom; I've been in areas like Eurofighter, Novomatic and many others; Rolf Holub and Werner Kogler in the area of Hypo Alpe-Adria; the list would be much, much longer, I am saving it now for reasons of time – we still have at least 15 billion euros in total. At least €15 billion! Go to Carinthia and talk there not only to the members of the state government, which is the consequences of freedom of the economy and corruption! The people in Klagenfurt tell me that they have to shut down bus lines and that children in the country can't be driven to school by bus anymore because there's no money anymore because everything has been plundered by free-lance comrades who have taken deep into all the cash registers. [[Abg. Darmann:... a free bus...!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e19456	Mr Pilz, despite all the emotions, I would ask you, in your choice of words, to pay a little attention to the fact that the dignity and the reputation of the House are not being violated. – You are speaking, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e19471	Madam President, thank you for the suggestion, but I am not sure what really hurts the dignity of the House: a discussion about corruption or corruption itself. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] What hurts the dignity of the house to clarify corruption...
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e19498	Mr President, this is also clearly set out in the Rules of Procedure, which you have in mind and from which you have already quoted in another context. It's just a matter of keeping an eye on the choice of words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e19514	Madam President, I am happy to do so, but you allow me to continue using the word “corruption” in this context, because I do not think it is more important. Corruption is corruption, not only when it is liberal, but usually and in most cases the quality mark is “free” on all these corruptions – and that has good reasons. It has good reasons why, whenever liberals rule, the same balance has to be drawn: The cash registers are empty, the public property is squandered, the table silver is gone, and the prosecutors no longer know how to deal with the processing of the liberal affairs. That's our problem. This is a problem for Parliament, and this is a problem of criminal justice. And at some point there is a political point where we, as responsible Members, also have to say for this budget: This cycle must be interrupted! It can't be that we don't know how we finance refugee aid! The problem in Austria is not: Financing refugee aid or financing the fight against domestic poverty – this is not the problem. Austria is rich enough to finance both. Do you know what it means if we have to discuss it seriously, Mr Schieder, Mr Lopatka, many others, that if we want to help refugees on the ground, we are currently missing €50 million? Do you know what that's related to? – 0.3% of the free corruption damage. 0,3 per cent! Do you know how much poverty we could have been fighting with €15 billion if they hadn't disappeared? Do you know how much we could have invested in health in schools, in social care? That's what it's all about. Now I come back to the ideas.smithy, because the ideas.smithy is important for a very special reason. So far, there has been the Mär, everything was different after the Knittelfeld party. It will be forgotten that Heinz-Christian Strache had been a member of the Federal Party Board of the Freedom Party all the time before. It's gonna be forgotten! He didn't even say: Stops grass, stops Eurofighter, stops Telekom, stops the ad corruption! – nothing at all, everything carried along, excited when he was allowed to be photographed with Grasser or Meischberger. In the meantime, the photos have been discarded, because there was Knittelfeld – but Knittelfeld was not a break with the free corruption, but the displacement of the last half-liberal elements from the Freedom Party. [[Call: Like Karl-Heinz Grasser for example]] That's the only thing that happened in Knittelfeld. What happened in Klagenfurt now? Ideas.schmiede GmbH in Sankt Veiter Straße 111 – first question: What is she doing? - The prosecutor says: Seemings, fake invoices, orders from the country of Carinthia are miscalculated from a very special office so that they can be disbursed. Fake bills! Who was the client? – Uwe Scheuch, Landesrat Uwe Scheuch! – This is the part of the ideas.schmiede, and this employs prosecutors in Klagenfurt and in Vienna. The second part is a very strange system. For many years, the Freedom Party has awarded millions of orders to the ideas.schmiede in Klagenfurt, mainly the Freedom Party of Austria and the Freedom Party of Vienna. In total, that's about €10 million. [[Oh-run at the ÖVP.]] What happens to the €10 million now? – Of course, there are a few ads, a few brochures, but besides ads and brochures there are also suitcases and envelopes, and they go back to Vienna. Mr Strache was quite right when he publicly declared: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no! – True, it was not always suitcases because it was partly money envelopes from Carinthian banks. What was in it? – Once € 20 000, once € 50 000, once € 70 000. In total, the public prosecutor is currently investigating where €700 000 have remained, where one does not know exactly how much of it landed with the FPÖ or some of its top officials. [[Oh-run at the ÖVP]] This is now the big question: Who got the money? – Two employees – one straining himself hard, becoming accused and buying it – say at the prosecutor's office: Yes, these suitcases, these Kuverts have gone to Vienna, yes, it has been spoken openly in the office, yes, it has been talked openly about, we have already 70 000 in the case for the HC!, whoever this HC as recipient is. Yes, this is all evidenced, and then the question we have to clarify – the prosecutor's office, but also we in Parliament, and I'll tell you why: Who got this money, and part of the answer lies in the construction. First of all, the prosecutor's office has insisted that this is not all a business of a small liberal official named Thomas S. in Klagenfurt, but rather that there is a hidden half-owner who has been assured by contract that he can be hidden at any price – that is, the Member of Parliament Kickl – and all that the prosecutor has found in the meantime – witness statements, constant joint meetings with the managing director in a tax consultancy firm, indications that he has worked, accounting for several years in this agency – suggests: Member Kickl is half-owner to this day. [[Abg. Rädler: “Social Home Party!”]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz.]] And it also indicates that in 2010 he also acquired the property together with the managing director – and again secret, and again trust agreement, and again secrecy clause! Why does he have to hide? What happens to the money? Why does the Freedom Party not answer the question: What is the meaning of this suitcase and envelope system? Why is money brought back to Vienna? Why will – and that is the rare one! – washed white money from the party in an agency to go back to Vienna as a black money? Usually money laundering works exactly the other way round! You usually make black money white money and get a little less. Why is black money made from white money? And what money is that at all? Look At the Court of Auditors, you can contact the list of donations of the Free Party! In the years to come, there will be once – in a single year! – more than € 1,000 in private donations to the Freedom Party. In a number of years, the total donation of the Austrian population to the FPÖ 320 € that it so loved. - It's not about the suitcases! [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Wheeler.]] It can't have been legally transferred to the party. The question is: Who collected it? Have there been black cash registers in the FPÖ? If so, what for? [[Call at the FPÖ: flowering imagination!]] There are certain purposes for which this money must not be spent, because it is not from private donations, but also from public and public party funding, that is, from tax funds. This is tax money in suitcases, hundreds of thousands of euros of tax money has been transported back and forth, and that is why the question of who did this and why it was done is justified. Has this been given to the liberal federal party – a lot of evidence – or have liberal officials said that the party does not need it as urgently as we ourselves? The FPÖ would also have a right to know where the money ended up. The FPÖ would also have a right to get on with what is happening to these funds. It is precisely this system that needs to be clarified now, and this must happen quickly, because there is another liberal speciality : [[Abg. Podgorschek: Before the Vienna election above all!]] If the transition from phase 2 to phase 3, that is, from the government bank to the indictment bank, then the liberals usually have only one interest: to blur the traces, simply and simply blur the traces. And here you have to imagine how the Dobernig, appointed by Strache as Minister of Shadow Finance, stands at the Glan River in Carinthia, together with a staff, and disposes of written files in the Glan. That's how it looks in the FPÖ! Scramble files, destroy evidence, and then see that a Carinthian river is still burdened with it down to the border. [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Is that not environmental pollution?]] These files are missing now, and that is why the Public Prosecutor's Office of Klagenfurt also carries out its own criminal proceedings against the shadow finance minister Dobernig for the suspicion of evidence destruction. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that the Federal Minister for Justice can at least answer some of our questions, but one must be clear to us: These links of corruption and politics, this threat to public budgets, these incredible losses to taxpayers by this kind of policy are not just about a criminal response, but simply about political responses. Where liberals have ruled, it is incredibly difficult – if they are never on the government bank, but just sitting on the indictment bank – for successors to reorganise all of this. Many of our representatives, together with people from the Ministry of Finance and other resorts, have been sitting for days, nights, weeks to find a way out of the greatest scandal of freedom in the Republic of Austria – Hypo Alpe-Adria. The Austrian Federal Army continues to suffer from the Eurofighter project. The Telekom company has been severely damaged. Novomatic – a gambling company! – has directly influenced parts of the legislation through financial grants to liberals and their related persons. It is now a matter of preparing this in order to make a political statement: This republic once survived, and the damage was immeasurably great. [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] Such a thing must not happen a second time – not only for reasons of humanity and humanity, but also for reasons of economic reason and for reasons of the responsibility of a Parliament which no longer sees such an unfrozen and responsible way of dealing with public property and with tax money. If individual Members already...
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e19650	Ladies and gentlemen, come to the conclusion, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e19666	I would like to conclude by expressing my hope that, if the criminal justice has clarified the essential facts, Parliament will also contribute a lot so that such things do not repeat. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e19693	Mr Brandstetter spoke to answer the question. Mr Minister, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that your speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e19714	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I will not exceed the speaking time of 20 minutes, but I will really make an honest effort to give you the information I can and can give you today in view of the legal situation. Yes, I, as a member of the government, if you allow me to make this pointed comment, it is not possible for such a session to remain as far away as a Member of Parliament. I have to be there, and this is still very short-term, but I do not complain, but I thank you for the opportunity to make some very important clarifications to me at first, in particular with regard to the relationship of state powers – the ordinary jurisdiction, the executive and the legislative. They all know it was more than 250 years ago when Montesquieu had this brilliant idea of the division of violence. There must be a separation between the state authorities, but the function of this division of powers also requires that the state powers remain in the balance and none of the others are hindered in their respective tasks. As you all know, respect for the legislative bodies and the control tasks assigned to them in a democratic rule of law are really important to me in relation to the executive. You can really recognize this – you know it – by the nature of my written answers to your questions, but also by my willingness to debate in the parliamentary committees and also in the speeches here in the plenary, but I must also have a special respect for the independence of ordinary jurisdiction as a state power on the other hand – and I also have it! – which, according to Article 90a of our Federal Constitution, also includes the institutions of the Public Prosecutor's Office in carrying out their investigation and indictment functions. Therefore, in the specific nature and scope of my reply, I not only commit the fundamental right to data protection, but also to a fair procedure and the constitutional respect for the presumption of innocence under Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Mr Bundesminister, you have to explain the term “fair procedure” for Mr Pilz!]] [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] Well, I think we can put aside arguments that the EMRK in Austria has a constitutional rank in toto, and that is good. It is therefore also very strict to pay attention to what this human rights convention actually states. However, as far as it is legally permissible and possible, I would of course also like to give you answers, also for a very different reason, which is very important to me personally: I really have a lot of transparency. Without transparency, especially in cases of particular public interest, confidence in justice suffers. Transparency is important, but it is precisely within the framework of the constitutional boundaries – and also at the right time, that must also be considered. It is not only about the fact that investigation procedures are not public, it is not only about data protection, it is of course also about investigational tactics, which cannot be given in advance. But in order to see how important I am personally to see transparency, I would just like to point out that at the beginning of my term of office we had to use this wise council, which was very helpful and which had to be used as an independent body in all cases by the Ministry's instructions within the framework of the supervision of experts. That was good, and that was right. And now we have – in power only with 1. January 2016 – a new law, namely the new law. This provides for three points – and I would like to draw particular attention to one because it relates directly and centrally to the question: In the future, there will be this completely independent guidance board, with the general procurator at the head. The members shall be appointed by the Legal Protection Officer. The Council of Instructions shall be responsible for all cases in which an instruction is to be given on matters of matter, i.e. all cases of instruction. He shall be responsible in all cases of criminal proceedings against supreme institutions of enforcement, members of the Constitutional Court, the Administrative Court and the Supreme Court and the General Procuratorate. The Council of Justice is also responsible – and now it comes; I have absolutely wanted to put something in place, that was really mine, which was originally in the expert group's proposal, in the context of which many experts, including constitutional law experts, were concerned about how to improve the law of law, not including – in all cases where there is an exceptional public interest in the criminal matter – in particular in the case of repeated and trans-regional media reporting or repeated public criticism of the actions of the public prosecutor's office and of the criminal police or for reasons of partiality – and the Federal Minister of Justice considers the referral of the Council of Justice necessary. What does that mean? You can believe I'm really sorry we don't have this legal situation yet. ==References== In January 2016, however, we have them, and then it is true that all cases such as those relating to the present question must run through the Council of Instructions, whether there is an instruction or not. And that was so important to me – because of the transparency I produce with it. Even if everything is clear from bottom to top in the decision, it is important that there is an independent body that checks the matter again. And this will apply to all these cases – including all cases where the question of whether extradition is permitted to a legislative body, to a legal representative body or not. All of this will have to go over the Council of Instructions, yes, of course. It will no longer be necessary in future to make appropriate proposals in these cases at all. It is also important that this new law also entails a real significant restriction of reporting obligations. You know, the WKStA doesn't have to report during the investigations already. In the specific case, we still have the legal system until 1. January 2016 that extradition requests to legal representative bodies are subject to reporting. You will no longer be with the new regulation, and I say quite openly to you, I am glad about it because transparency is really important to me. Well, these legitimate interests, which I must observe – if I now try to answer some questions in detail as far as it goes – you will find relatively new regulations in § 35b of the Public Prosecutor's Act. It is also about the need to take personal interests, the protection of fundamental rights seriously and to perceive them. Of course, that also binds me now when I address the detailed questions in a further series. As far as the question of the extradition of Members by legal bodies on the basis of a request from a public prosecutor is concerned, I would like to say one more thing here, because this is a little too little known: In the context of the re-regulation of criminal law, the law of the criminal proceedings with 1. In January 2015, we also received a new regulation on the definition of suspects and accused persons. We wanted to know this consciously and for good reasons limited. We didn't want someone to get the accused status immediately because of an ad – be it anonymous. This was in the interests of all the parties concerned. Every one of us can do that. Each one of you may happen that suddenly a demand for extradition is to be made. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: An ad from the fungus...!]] But I just wanted to say that to the explanation, because that's too little known. This must be taken into account in all these procedures. We have restricted the term of the accused for legal reasons, and that is with 1. January 2015 has already entered into force. Having said that, with all the restrictions, which are above all constitutional, I would like to inform you now on questions 1 to 8 as follows: It is in this case – and it is also the question of a lot of details to be found – that in the course of a search in the investigation procedure against me-re suspicious suspects, essentially because of infidelity – that is a procedure of the WKSTA – were found in a private apartment framework contracts, between the ideas already mentioned.schmide Werbungagentur GmbH and the Freedom Party of Carinthia. On the basis of the suspicion that arose, and some other facts, the WKStA then filed a complaint against several persons in its proceedings and also filed an application for an association fine against a privately organised company. An indictment notice concerning a person was rejected. The application for the imposition of an association fine was apparently withdrawn by the WKSTA in the context of the content. There were negotiating dates in August 2015, main negotiating dates, and there two persons were sentenced to conditional imprisonment. More details can and should not be said to you at the moment for the opening reasons. That would be counterproductive. The procedure is pending and is under way. On questions 9 to 24, I may reply to the written question by the honourable Member Mag. Beate Meinl-Reisinger, Members of Parliament concerning the financing of the parties of the parties of the 15th century. In September 2015, the Court referred to the Court for a preliminary ruling a question on the interpretation of Article 107(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union of the European Union relating to the interpretation of Article 107(1) of Since – this is accessible to everyone anyway – you will find all that is on the 15th. September was actually up-to-date. Now I have to add that recently, in the Federal Ministry of Justice, a further project report of the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office in Vienna and the WKStA for the prosecution of economic crimes and corruption has been processed. The Federal Ministry of Justice has only recently taken note of the projects reported by the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office. It was not necessary to deal with this proposal for completion to the Council of Wise Men – because of the lack of guidance from the BMJ, which did not exist here. The same applies: pending procedure; I simply can't say it anymore for the reasons set out in the introduction. Questions 25 to 35: Fair procedures, which are certain from 1st. The Council of Ministers will have to submit to the Council of Instructions. In the event of an intentional end between them, as mentioned, the prosecutors need not report at all. In this context, an investigation procedure against seven accused persons is also pending at WKSTA. It is led by the suspicion of the contributory to the infidelity, the false evidence, the false evidence in front of an investigative committee and the some of the money laundering that remained in the attempt. At least that's the suspicion. We expect to conclude the prosecution procedure in Bälde. It would be inconvenient to mention concrete data now. The Federal Ministry of Justice has also taken note of the projects reported by the Upper State Prosecutor's Office in Vienna, which are approved by the Federal Ministry of Justice. However, there is no formal agreement between the parties to the proceedings, and I cannot say at the moment for the reasons mentioned. Finally, I come back to the question of parliamentary questions, which are very useful in these procedures, in which things are in the river and can change very quickly. I also refer to mine on 20 October. On 22 March 2015, Mr Gabriele Moser, friends and friends of 22 March 2015 responded to the question – which now concerns questions 36 to 45. January 2015. This is both about the facts about BUWOG and Terminal Tower. The criminal proceedings are conducted at the WKSTA as well as at the Landesgericht für Punishas-chen Wien, a partial aspect of them, and are directed against 54 accused persons. It is about a whole series of crimes – infidelity, money laundering, false evidence, evidence forgery, as well as bribery crimes are the subject of pending investigations. It is about transactions related to the posting of Linz financial services to the well-known office Terminal Tower. In the investigation procedure concerning the fact-finding complex BUWOG and Terminal Tower, the WKStA returned a very comprehensive and detailed project report in May 2014 on the planned completion, which was thoroughly examined by both the Upper State Prosecutor's Office in Vienna and the relevant department of my home. Following this examination, the project report of the so-called Public Prosecutor's Office was reduced to revision in the short term, which had become necessary in view of the death of an accused person. At this stage of processing, however, a procedural defect occurred in the field of the Vienna Regional Court of Criminal Matters, which was actually a lack of delivery, which has happened, since there is nothing to be embellished, whose reorganisation is, at least, essential before the completion of the investigation procedure. It's about a visual investigation procedure. It's about the person of a lawyer. Yes, the inspection procedures, they can take some time. I can't do anything to speed that up. That's in court. It will only be possible to submit the revised project report to the relevant department of my home once again if the completion of the reorganisation of this defect by the Court of First Instance is legally completed. However, I assume that the planned completion will be decided very quickly, following the in-depth examination already carried out. However, I also ask for understanding that it is not possible for me to make concrete time forecasts. That wouldn't be serious either. In this case, at least the wise or wise council will have to deal with it. On questions 46 to 55: Yes, the subject of this criminal case of the WKStA is the fact complex Brehmstraße. This is about the payment of an invoice by an advertising GmbH in May 2005 by a “reality development AG”. And it is a suspicion that this could actually have been a lubricating payment in connection with the resettlement of the customs office Vienna in a property of UBM in Brehmstraße. The suspicion of crime is also based, among other things, on protocols of monitored telephone calls. The examination of the OStA Vienna Project Report in this Causa by the responsible department of my house was completed a few days ago. There was no need for supervision. There was therefore no need to refer to the Council of Wise Men in this case. However, I cannot tell you the details of the approved projects – even here, as I have said, no instructions – for the purposes of investigational tactics and also for reasons of the necessary personality of those who need to be protected, at least at the present stage of the proceedings. Yeah, I'm not telling you anything new. I mean, you are making use of the possibility of written inquiries. I'm telling you quite frankly that this makes sense. The written answers may then, of course, also be there or there a little more detailed. It is not so easy to filter out the essentials of information that you are actually interested in in just three hours on so many questions. I can only say: I will continue to try to answer all your questions, especially the written ones, because then we have enough time to do so. I will also try to ensure that we do not always have to take advantage of the two months provided for as a deadline. – But not that this would be an invitation to you all now. In any case, we have enough requests, but I think it is a sensible way to do so, since we really do have the appropriate control function in a way that simply allows more detailed reporting, as it is simply more time to weigh exactly between your legitimate information interest, the control function of Parliament, the necessary transparency, which is very important to me, and the limits to which we are all bound within the framework of the legal order, which we are all committed. – It would be temporary from my side once.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e19800	Thank you many times, Minister of State. We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes, with each club having a total speaking time of 25 minutes. Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e19831	Mr. Minister! They were really very reserved with your information. We will therefore, of course, accept your invitation to further written requests. But the following note has to be made: The former Minister of Justice Karl received two similar urgent requests and answered them in a much more detailed way. That means you've been very reticent today. It is also different, I must say, and I think you would have been guilty of this to Parliament. This time you would have been given by us to give proper information on this central question as well. [[Congratulations on the Greens and Members of the NEOS.]] But if you cannot or do not want certain information, then we can ask the FPÖ a lot. The first question is: Where's Herbert Kickl? He's not going off politically, but it's remarkable. And the chronology of disappearance has already been briefly presented by colleague Peter Pilz. On 7, 8, 9. He was still sitting here on July, and as always, he gave his speeches. ==References== July then revealed to the “Falter” that he should have been led for unfaithfulness and bribery as an accuser, in connection with sham bills, money cases and money envelopes. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: What is the meaning of “becoming had”?]] And then he suddenly disappeared. First special meeting we had on 17 November. July: Greece was the subject. – Well, a Herbert Kickl normally wouldn't have missed it. [[Abg. Hagen: He was in Greece!]] ==References== August was the topic of refugees. Who missed? – A Herbert Kickl. He wouldn't miss such a topic otherwise. Today we have a regular parliamentary session again. Who Is Missing? – Herbert Kickl. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Unapologised above all!]] My questions to you: Where's Herbert Kickl? Where's Herbert Kickl submerged? [[Call the Greens.]] And why is Herbert Kickl submerged? [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] But there is him, because he obviously exists as submarine, which occasionally sparks from the underground by means of press releases. In so far as: He may still be real-life, wherever he sends these radio signals; they should at least come deep out of the ground. Second question: Is it an ordinary business of the Austrian Freedom Party that, for example, in the case of government participations, as in Carinthia in a coalition at that time, through agencies, they participate their own party in the expenditure of the FPÖ national government offices? In the framework agreement – and the Minister of Justice has said that; he has been found in a house search – in the time when Kickl was obviously there hidden partners in the ideas.schmijde, it says: ‘In the case of contracts from FPÖ government offices (as well as affiliated or attributed companies, etc.) The FPÖs shall be credited to 20 % of the Agency’s order volume.” What is the basis for such a framework agreement? I'd say that's illegal party funding. I don't think that's a different concept. The aim is to convert taxpayers' money to FPÖ's party money through the detour of an agency through increased invoices. In Carinthia – and we have heard that too – a large-scale court case is pending, which former FPÖ members have in the visor. [[Abg. Schimanek: I didn't hear that!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Korun.]] However, it is also exciting that FPÖ will feed its agencies with money not only when it is in the government, but also with funds received by the FPÖ over the promotion of parties. The Federal FPÖ and the FPÖ Vienna paid more than €11 million to these ideas.schmiede. So, that's basically still imaginable. But what's exciting is: Why do the ideas.schmiede then come back again Kick-back or "Kickl-back" payments by, for example, the still in office Federal Managing Director Weixelbaum, against which it is determined, obviously receives payments by obviously making payments via Kuverts and suitcases to the Federal Party Obmann Strache and possibly making payments to the Secretary-General Kickl. There are only two explanations for this. Statement one would be: greedy officials who clear out their own party funds. That's imaginable. It may be criminally relevant, but this is mainly a topic for the FPÖ party base, whether they want party officials who may be giving access to the party funds via detours and then put the money in their own pocket via agencies. Possibility two, however, – and Mr Pilz has already done this – is to reorientation of funds from party funding into so-called free money, because the promotion of the parties is intended, because it is not possible to pay everything. But if you send this money back to an agency, and then it comes back as a disbursement through the Federal Managing Director Weixelbaum, possibly via Mr Kickl, possibly via Mr Strache, then suddenly more is possible with the money. For example: Federal Party Obmann Strache has an elaborate – how should I say? – an elaborate lifestyle, for example his invitation tours through public sites. It is a pleasure for citizens when they are occasionally invited to a beer. But if the citizens know that the beer is not actually paid by the parliament but that this Beer is actually paid by the taxpayer because, via a parallel bank, the promotion of the party is converted into free money, then you don't find it so funny anymore. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Another example is when partyobmann finds a fortune teller: The self-proclaimed mayor isn't a fun party and not the esoteric party, no, Federal Partyobmann Strache visits a fortune teller, can be looked into the glass ball there, created a protective karma, a protective robe and predicted the future. - That's it. All this costs money. From 2010 to 2012, this, as ‘NEWS’ revealed, cost €6 750. The bill went to the parliament club, and there was a dementi: The parliament club didn't pay for it. This has a good reason, because I think the average Austrian will say: Glass ball, protective coat, numerical mystics – oblique, my goodness, spinning. It is no longer funny, however, if it is paid out of the promotion of the party. By the way: The FPÖ has then promptly demented that this money has been paid out of the club promotion. And who did the dementi? – Secretary-General Kickl. And I say that he has to know, because perhaps exactly this parallel cash register is the cash register, from which such payments are made. All of this is the tip of an iceberg at the Freedom Party. There is no party that in recent years has had as many criminal proceedings against its promoters as the Freedom Party of Austria. There are three categories: There's the classic, the corruption crime. We all know them – Uwe Scheuch, but this goes from the top to the bottom, to the vice-president of Maria Rain; it is not possible to list all those who have been sentenced for abuse of office, for bribery and, and, and. – This is the first category. The second category, also not surprising, is the classical condemnation of Hetzerei et cetera. We have heard it again recently, with a candidate of the FPÖ Wels was re-activating the subject. We know that winter, a colleague of parliament, was condemned for being horrified; the former Member of the Royal Court was sentenced for being horrified. – This is the second category. I don't want to talk much about the third category. [[Oh-Rufe in the direction of the Abg going to his seat. Kickl.]] - Oh, he's been helped, he's up! Well, then he can answer all the questions. We're getting the things.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e19973	Next, Mr. Dr. Jarolim. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e20008	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. I am also glad that Mr Kickl is here because we have heard that he was at the strategic meeting of this urgent request today, but not here. I am glad that you have the time, but come here, otherwise it would have been a bit precarious to know these circumstances, Mr Kickl. [[Abg. Kickl: I'm glad you're worried! I work at the end of red-green! That can go faster than you love!]] You really have a lot of things, I would say, problems. I think it's important that we just deal with it very objectively. For whatever reason this documentation has been done, it exists anyway. It is, however, relatively clear, and I understand that you are reluctant to come here, Mr Kickl, but it is not for you to sit here for the time you can sit here and work together with us on your issues. We should do that together! In this connection, Mr Federal Minister, I must say that the statement you have made to us today was not entirely satisfactory, as we or I actually expected. The issue of the independence of justice and the separation of violence is, of course, an objective or a destination, but we all know – that was always the discussion – that this is not the case for the public prosecutor, because the prosecutor's office, that is, the investigating authority and the decision-making authority in all criminal matters, has the direct link to the Ministry of Justice. From there, there is also a string of instructions – in fact, formal or whatever, and so I also believe that the information on one topic or another could have been a little more extensive. But anyway, things are running, and I think you don't have to do much. All of this will take its course, and we will see at the end of the day how the money came to the Freedom Party. I would just say – our people's money is your slogan – you should just give it back now the money you've pulled out of the pockets of the taxpayers in Carinthia. So I'd say, Give us our money back, tell the Carinthians. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] – Thank you, that wouldn’t have been necessary. [[towards SPÖ]] But now, Mr Kickl: ==References== March 2005 – it has already been mentioned in part – a framework agreement that has been concluded between the ideas.schmiede and the Freedom Party, whereby Mr Manfred Stromberger – who is referred to as the "Provisions Manfred" internally – has signed with the Freedom Party. ==References== ==References== Ladies and gentlemen, you have to let this be broken on your tongue, you just need to read it and then you just know – Peter Pilz did some really great – what you're doing. It says, under point 5 of the Treaty, that the entire – i.e. all – advertising contracts of the country of Carinthia are carried out by society. And then there is – quote –: ‘In the case of orders from FPÖ government agencies’ – FPÖ government offices, which have already cashed themselves – ‘the FPÖ creditors will receive 20 % of the order volume from the Agency (...)’. That's in the contract, so what else do you want to say? That's why I'd understand that you're not here anymore – but you're here now, and that's good. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinzl.]] So we're obviously dealing with kick-back payments here, and on 31 December. March, that's right in the context, there's a trust agreement at once. So a framework agreement has been concluded. According to the framework agreement, the country of Carinthia – the taxpayers – pays money to FPÖ. Then Mr. Kickl appears for the first time and makes a trust agreement in a Graz notarial office with the managing director Sila – who is also the owner there – which says: You represent me! And although Sila must not have the shares without express consent, she must follow Mr Kickl, if he wants to, free of charge – without paying anything. Ladies and gentlemen, I mean, what else do you want? I do not really understand one thing: that the procedure takes so long, in such a situation! That's how it goes. Then Mr. Kickl said: The trust agreement has been abolished at once! The tax advisor – your tax advisor – just laughed and said: But I can't remember that! – And because we are so beautiful at the trust agreement, we will be on 21st. On 1 August 2007, a second trust agreement was signed. The parties are of course the same again, this time called the company Textacy, and it is also precisely the same set out in the Treaty: Mr Kickl can take the shares by zero at any time and is thus the person entitled to them. ==References== November 2010 there is a third trust agreement – ladies and gentlemen, that is not to stand! – which states that a property is purchased, namely the property on which the advertising agency’s office stands and where all the documents that should be hidden from the police have been brought. Only someone saw that, told the BAK, and then there was a house search. Boxily, thank God, the documents have also been brought out. That is why we now know everything in the Treaties. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going further: A witness who has been employed there for five years says there are two A4 folders in society, there is “Black folder” on it, and there are the entire invoices from the shops with the office of the Carinthian state government inside. And that's the business, where the 20 percent were taken off. Ladies and gentlemen, I have said at the outset that I do not understand what is happening here in human presence. I think you need to finally get out of here and explain what was really there, and then FPÖ certainly has the damn duty to give back the money you pulled out of their pockets to the Carinthias. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e20069	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Steinacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e20090	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Since the early summer, we have had another affair of freedom in the Austrian domestic policy, which is the one we are dealing with today in the urgent question. It is about illegal party funding, a FPÖ agency is said to have made excessive invoices to the country of Carinthia, and the difference to the actual invoice amount should have been transferred directly to the FPÖ. According to the documents from the newspapers that are known to me and that each of you can research on the Internet, we are here talking about about 1.8 million € tax money, well noticed. Contracts and statements by employees of this advertising agency – Mr Jarolim has just presented it – support this statement. Yes, please, who is voluntarily accusing himself – and this is not done by jux and tollery – when it comes to confirming that the Agency in which one was employed has been directly transferred to the Agency, precisely because of this framework agreement, which has concluded the ideas.schmijde with the country? There is another testimony; I quote only from the “Falter ” of the 29th century. July, page 12: One witness says he's heard from the agency chief himself that this “70,000 euros in the suitcase” has “brought out” to the HC street several times. That gives you a lot of thought, ladies and gentlemen, and I'll stop quoting right now. The fact that an agency staff member says that the Federal Managing Director Weixelbaum has received €10,000 in a envelope is also important – obviously so far normal in the former blue empire of Jörg Haider, one would like to say. But I am particularly concerned today with the subject of the incriminated advertising agency, which is half owned by no one other than the now present FPÖ Secretary General Herbert Kickl – at least it stands in the room. I don't know if it's still that way. [[Abg. Kickl: But this is a fine difference!]] The fact that it has heard of it proves the trust agreement between Mr Kickl and the strawmen. Mr Kickl has said that we have also learned about the media that he has announced this fidelity. Now I'm wondering, What does that mean? If you have 50 percent in a thriving company, and then you give it orally, although the company makes a profit by 500 000 € next to salaries, I ask myself as a lawyer: Where's the company contract? Where's the paperwork? Or I ask quite correctly: Where was the contribution for this transfer of these shares? [[Abg. Kickl: If you know the act, then quote my statement about it!]] Ladies and gentlemen, if you look at all of this, then the question is raised, and now I come to the subject of FPÖ and its agitation in this House: What are the sayings of the FPÖ of political cleanliness worth? What do the Austrians have of your poles? And what do your promises and promises bring to the Austrians? – Mein Ladies and gentlemen, the answer is clear: nothing, namely nothing at all, or perhaps even less than nothing, because wherever the liberals so far had the saying, they have created a disaster, see Carinthia, see the processes around the Hypo Alpe-Adria. Mr Kickl, you know a lot – everything, as some say – that you have a saying and sometimes a rhyme for everything, but can you also distinguish between what is public money and what is private – and what is generally heard? Now that you are present, you can give us an answer, because I only say: The prosecutors and investigative authorities are now called to evaluate this. [[Abg. Kickl: You just need to quote my statement about this!]] It hurts a lot when you clearly lose the image of the supposed cleaner. And I think it's actually a shame, because it would have to be perfectly clear to you what damage you are doing to politics as a whole should all this be true. The discussion about it is bad enough. I understand that the Federal Minister can no longer say this in the ongoing procedure: Data protection, non-publicity of the investigation procedure. There are sometimes questions about how the documents come to the public, but I say: I have confidence in justice, which is important, and that the right measures are taken and the necessary surveys quickly come to a conclusion, which is very important. You too, Mr Kickl, are subject to the presumption of innocence up to the evidence of the opposite. [[Abg. Kickl: Ah that!]] Ladies and gentlemen, we in the ÖVP also had such issues, but in 2013 we gave ourselves a code of honour, with very clear rules for an impeccable political behaviour. [[The speaker keeps them up to date.]] Each of us has to sign this code of honor as a Member of Parliament personally. I recommend the FPÖ also to set up such a code of honor and stick to it, it would be high time. Since Mr Kickl is present, I can hand it over to you – this is my last copy, but then you don't have to download it from the Internet.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e20179	Next word reported: Mr. Dr. Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e20211	Madam President. Federal Minister! You can see, the staging from the auditorium of the interested Green Group, you ask: Where's the kickl? – I can tell you: He's sitting there. So with the perceptiveness you are already a little limited. [[Abg. Walser: He's supposed to take a position!]] [[Further calls to the Greens.]] I am now the first speaker here – if you might have the goodness to listen! Perhaps these senses are less saddened, optically it has already gone into pants. But there's more going on. When I went to Vienna today, I already heard colleagues Pilz on the radio and what he is doing today on urgent request. I thought straight away, oh, he obviously slept badly in his social apartment at 150 € a month, he dreamed of whether he was with his political board, he is still in the old system, still his apartment will be able to afford, and there he is horrified with the thought, perhaps this privilege will eventually take away the FPÖ from him because it would not acknowledge that. Well, that's where we've seen what he's doing. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] – Now the comrades wake up again, but we are still coming to them. – What is it about? [[Abg. Lopatka: A Gaunerpartie!]] – Excuse me, of whom was the ‘gauner party’ call now? – Aha, thank you! [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: From Clubobmann Lopatka!]] Madam President, it was Klubobmann Lopatka! Very good. [[Abg. Wöginger: But that was in a different context!]] I take note – for the protocol – of: Mr Lopatka has turned the term ‘gauner’ backward, obviously to his ranks, here. That's for the protocol; all right. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Pilz has now spoken again in his well-known way. You've seen what he's already revealed, from BUWOG, from Eurofighters or anything else. None of this has remained until now, from no single procedure, where he has said full well, next week the revelation comes, then he invites to the press conference. When the next week was over, he said I had to do a bit of research, and next week the revelation will come. Nothing left yet, nothing at all! I have to tell you one thing, if you speak in your question of the fact that there has been a ‘case system’, I have to say that the only suitcase system I recognize is that at the end of such a debate a whole case remains, but nothing else at all. That's the only thing that's actually left behind. [[Cheerfulness and applause at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Schwentner: Is that all you have to say?]] But if the Greens are in a coalition, in Carinthia, for example, with a country president Rohr, with a state captain emperor, with a state councillor Schönig, who is all accused in a trial, they are very wortkarg at once, then she doesn't care at all at all. [[Abg. Brosz: What about the 20 percent that the agency has gotten?]] [[Abg. Brosz: What about the 20 percent he collected?]] Members of the Greens with the assistance of the Government Party in this House: Fear of election results must be really terrible. It must be something really terrible that makes you descend to such embarrassments. I have to say, Mr Pilz, you have already been much better in form, you can already do this here, because even in your request you have wrong annual figures when you speak of a "shadow cabinet" presented in 2011. You're not a historian, and I'm telling you, it's wrong. They are more economic, and what the problem is: You are not a lawyer, and you have never had anything to do with this activity – my idea of what a fair procedure is – so far, you have never had anything to do or can only discuss anything in this context. Let me tell you: A witness is not a suspect. At this point I also have to say that I would have been very interested in the way in which Mr Pilz took the view that the defendant had been victimised by the Ministry of the Kickl. I didn't think of anything like that at all, so I'd be interested in how he was referring to this act. Profile files: It is already a question outside – the Federal Minister is always waiting for questions; we have already done so – by colleagues Stefan, colleagues, in which it is a question of how first of all material parts actually went out and, like the second colleague Pilz, but also another colleague from the SPÖ Group, actually come to intervene with the public prosecutor: When are you going to put up with the kickl? I have to say that this is something so unheard-of that Members of this House are actively involved in the prosecutor's office and ask when something will happen at last! Mr Federal Minister, since this concerns the administration of justice, you can answer this very well. We are looking forward to this answer, because we will then be able to check them well with our information. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] Mr Brosz, you will certainly be speaking in the near future, then you can say everything you are moving. [[Abg. Brosz: You could say something about the questions!]] But one thing you obviously did not understand at all: the principle of the division of powers which the Federal Minister referred to in his introduction. You have no idea of that at all, you don't even care. For you, this is a political court, and you have to carry it out in the first instance and in the last instance. [[Abg. Brosz: You can say something about it!]] I can only tell you one thing: Unlike many others in the political field, by many different parties in Austria, Colleague Kickl is not an accused person. There is not even a desire for extradition! There are also the interventions: Please, when is it finally delivered?- Oh, my God! – Best in front of the Oberösterreich-Wahl, best in front of the Vienna-Wahl! We need a scandal in our hands against the kickl! - Polit-Theater! Mr Pilz, your intention today at this meeting before... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] - Yeah, I'll hear the next calls again. You have not even dared to make an immunity committee now, because you know very well that all these are pipe-creperers going backwards. They are trying to create criminal relevance in some form with constructed things. You won't succeed, you can hop and jump and do other gymnastics in your community apartment at €150 a month, you won't succeed. People don't believe it! If you are here to contact the BUWOG, Deutsche Telekom: Since when is Mr Mensdorff-Pouilly a liberal party? Since when is the Rudi Fischer free partygoer? Grasser was involved at a time in the BUWOG when he was already on the ticket of the ÖVP Finance Minister and no longer in the FPÖ, which he turned his back. [[Abg. Pilz: And Gorbach?]] - Gorbach? You don't have that yet. [[Further calls to the Greens.]] Excuse me, where is the Gorbach criminal proceedings? Tell me something at last! You only dream, you nightmare, my colleague Pilz, where there are criminal acts or anything else. In conclusion: One would never happen to Herbert Kickl or HC Strache or anyone of us: to be pictured with a pedophile for the purpose of political advertising. That wouldn't make any freeman!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e20421	Before I give the floor to the next speaker, I announce that in the final vote on the third reading, agenda item 1, two voting cards with the title 'Dr. Andreas Karlsböck. That is why I put the result right; it is: Members cast: 167; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 123, No votes: 43, invalid: 1. The difference is on the vote result without influence. [[See also p. 154.]] Reported as follows: Mrs Mag. Meinl-Risinger. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e20480	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I am very grateful to the Greens for this urgent request, because I already believe that it is relevant to the public, especially when we stand before two elections, especially the FPÖ is becoming strong as a representative of the small people: “Our money for our Leut”! Especially this FPÖ – and I will also come to this point – which in recent years, also the Federal Party Observer, constantly washes his hands in innocence and says: Corruption cases, that was all once, yes, it did, but under my supervision everything is fine. And I find it relevant when such accusations are in the room. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: To be put in the room!]] What's this about? It has been said several times here that it is about revelations made by the “falter ” in July. This is a framework agreement between the FPÖ Carinthia and the ideas.schmiede, on which you, Mr Kickl, are half-owners. This half-ownership has been given loyally, and you have medially announced that you have announced it orally. [[Abg. Kickl: Incorrect!]] - That's my level of information. I am a lawyer, Mr Rosenkranz, I would never, as a lawyer, announce such a contract by word of mouth, but it is about considerable assets. That means that it is not credible and comprehensible for me. [[Abg. Kickl: Then think about the time!]] In any case, there is a framework contract of ideas.schmiede with the FPÖ Carinthia, and there is – I repeat it again, it has already been said a few times – also that clause: [[Abg. Beautiful: We only heard it four times!]] The agency grants the FPÖ Carinthia on all its ads a 10 percent credit. In the case of orders from FPÖ government offices (as well as affiliated or attributed companies, etc.) The FPÖ Carinthia is credited by the Agency for 20 percent of the order volume. That's a forbidden determination, that's a kickback determination, and we'll explain that. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: You'll find out? That's right.]] Mr Federal Minister, we have received a lecture from you, but I would have liked to have a little more information – but yes, we will discuss it. We will therefore discuss this, unfortunately only on 19 June. October because we have been accused by Mr. Strache because in the course of this “Falter” story we have made the following Shareable three persons with a symbolic money case in hand, once with the head of Mr. Jörg Haider, once with the head of Karl-Heinz Grasser and once with the head of Heinz-Christian Strache. [[the speaker keeps it up-to-date]] It reads as follows: “These suitcases never change!” We have therefore been accused and have been charged on 19 July. October the trial, and we will be able to take a close look at that. You, Mr Kickl, are also invited as a witness, as are Mr Strache, the Managing Director of the Agency, Mr Weixelbaum, the two witnesses who were anonymized in the “Falter”. We're going to negotiate this causa under the duty of truth, and I'm looking forward to it, I have to say. [[Abg. Kickl: But at least where it belongs!]] What's this about? I have already started, Mr. Strache emphasizes this over and over again – there are several interviews in which one can read this, for example in the "Press" of 7. August 2012, also in the ‘standard’ –: Yes, corruption cases, dubious flow of money to the FPÖ, that was, that was once, but since I am a federal party, all of this belongs to the past! [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: you repeat!]] [[Abg. Kickl: Maybe you should have a conversation with Mr. Hazelsteiner!]] Because of these accusations, which have been made in the “Falter”, the suspicion is that there is a continuity in the question of these dubious flows of money, and that is also meant to express this Shareable in a satarian way. We'll be on 19. In October, talk about the question of this fact-substrate, namely that there is just this kickback agreement. [[Abg. Kickl: Do you really think the prosecutor's office needs you to clear this up? That's ridiculous!]] This is a criminal course if it were. It is the power of a member of the state government, who does not have his own money, but has tax money, and he has to have it properly that it is not used in that way – and this is clearly to the detriment of taxpayers – that a kickback payment to the FPÖ flows back. And yes, that's how illegal party funding works, as I finally explained it in a blog. I once said exemplaryly, illegal party funding for Dummys – you can take correct instructions from that. On these dubious money flows, this was also in the “Falter”: I honestly don’t care if that’s a suitcase or a money envelope, the fact is, there are testimony that a money has been “brought out” €70,000. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: No, no, that's important!]] It is a perception that someone has said that several times “the H.C.” money has been “brought out”. We will be able to talk about all of this under a duty of truth. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] One last point: humorlessness. Yes, of course, the word “case” is, as one should say, a certain value judgment in a satiric context. There are enough judgments, however, that there is such a classic public-figure standard here, i.e. that as a person of public life you have to make a few different expressions than a normal person. And we have also explained it in our response, there are a few judgments in this regard: For example, one can also say “Kellernazi”, one can also say that someone is an evil opportunist, one can also say: “Trottel”, and there was even one thing where it was allowed to say – that’s little flattering –: ‘Ass with ears’. So we'll just look at that, I'd say, on 19th. October, and I'm very excited about it.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e20663	Next, Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e20684	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Federal Minister, I am already concerned when my predecessor, Mrs Meinl-Reisinger, is holding up a court case here, on which “confidential” stands. I believe that it should not be in Austria, in a rule of law, in a country where we can believe in the rule of law. [[Abg. Pilz: This is their procedure!]] [[Cheerful for Greens and NEOS.]] [[Abg. Meinl-Reisinger: I am the opponent!]] Mr Pilz, I would not laugh at you now. The laughter would pass me in your place, because you, Mr. Pilz, are just throwing stones, even though you are sitting in the glass house yourself. [[Calls to the Greens.]] – Mr Pilz, listen to me! I think you should miss at least Mr Kickl, who is certainly not there often, but you are even less present. I am sitting here constantly, I am a folder of my group, and you are now and then, at some meetings, really present in this House for a maximum of one hour at a time. You shouldn't throw stones there, Mr. Pilz. I have to say that quite clearly. [[New calls to the Greens.]] But now on the real issue, ladies and gentlemen. I believe that this urgent request shows once again how questionable the financing of parties is here in Austria. This is already a subject, and I think we can talk openly about it here. We from the Stronach team had a clear line: Frank Stronach paid for the campaign in private. The State has been able to get tax money out of it. That is, all that has been used by Frank Stronach in the election campaign has settled down in taxpayers' money – that is, the state has benefited. Let us now look at this at Mr Pilz, what it looks like in his municipal apartment – which is also to the detriment of the taxpayer, because he hardly pays rent there, and someone who is in need and would urgently need this apartment, he does not get it. That's abuse of taxpayers' money! You have to say that clearly. [[Complementary of the Abg. Dietrich.]] Let me just say the following: Here's a case filed. I think this is where the courts should decide, and I think you can trust the court. We have no understanding of this private election campaign, which has been launched here by the Greens. So, first of all, we ask the judiciary, and then we can discuss it here, Mr Pilz. I believe that this would be the right and decent way, and that would be the right procedure for an Austrian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e20770	Next, Mrs. Dr. Moser will speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e20792	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! For me, 8 minutes of speaking time has been set – Mr Kickl, you can have 5 minutes away, I offer you a fine! Enter – one-time chance: green speaking time! [[Congratulations on the Greens and Members of the NEOS.]] You should have the opportunity to explain your motives here at the speaker's desk, because it is about two very clear and simple questions. Question one: 20 percent overcrowded bills, 20 percent of them, in “ideen.schmiede money” – under quotation marks – in blue cash registers, is the presumption. Please put the facts in the room so that we can distance ourselves from these assumptions! Sage Give us the following: What was really financed by the 20 percent additional payments that were not covered by any kind of service? Were those private stories? Were these any beer tent activities? Were the helicopter inserts? – We would have liked to know because it is tax money. Finally, the tax payer of Carinthia or the tax payer of Austria via the party financing in Carinthia then financed the ideas.schmide, and the 20 percent came into your hands in some way – suitcases are in the room too. Well, tell us: What happened to it? Mr Rosenkranz has not told us what happened. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: If I'm not there, what should I say? Should I flirt like my colleague Pilz?]] – Maybe you could have inquired? You could have inquired! Since spring, this Causa has been in the media again and again, and I am sure there is a FPÖ-internal argumentarium, as you justify, because you will certainly be asked in the beer tents. Finally, your officials also want to know whether the money has now landed in your home country or has been spent on any political activity. – So this is the one question: what happened to the 20 percent of additional payments. The other question is, of course, the following: Are you so generous, Mr Kickl, that you have given your share of ideas.schmiede – we have heard: three trust agreements, 50 percent of you once heard –? Do you have it in any form – and: to what extent? – then get it? What is it like now? [[Abg. Neubauer: That's none of your business at all! Where are we?]] We've heard it – it's yes, we've been talking about court lawyers who've been trying to get lawyers dressed in front of me – it's totally unusual to break up trust contracts orally and then somehow flee and practically abandon 50 percent of a gold mine agency – a gold mine agency that deserves a good deal of money to be washed or changed. – This is the second open question. That's why my offer: 5 minutes for you. You can answer any question in 2 minutes. We still have time. [[Abg. Kickl: It's not that complicated!]] These are the two central questions. All in all, it is about the approach of the so-called Cleanmann Party, which still needs some explanation and does not want to explain itself. - All right, everybody's supposed to take his picture. Minister Brandstetter, Minister of Justice! They also wanted to explain themselves to a modest degree. I am therefore in the second case, with no comparison in any way with the first, which reaches the extent and depth. But, Mr Minister, I am certainly one of the most consistent questioners – how to say – and you are also kind in the objection and give me comparatively detailed answer. Only: The written answer is, in most cases, not more comprehensive than if I ask you orally. Even today, you have been asked orally as part of this urgent procedure. My colleague Albert Steinhauser already pointed out that her predecessor was twice, once on 8. November 2012 and once later – I think it was September 2013 – on similar questions in the context of special meetings and urgent matters very well called names and procedural stands. I give you the stenographic protocol of one of these meetings. Yeah, she's here now. Thank you once again, Mrs. Ex-Minister Karl, for your way of doing this at the time, because you really presented a transparent response culture to the questions under the general title "Strengthening confidence in justice". Minister, I'll give it to you – beat you with Karl! [[the speaker submits a copy of the Stenographical Protocol to Federal Minister Brandstetter]] [[Congratulation with greens and NEOS.]] I mean, I'm clear, you're not a politician in the original sense or in the traditional sense, but a professionally oriented, very decorated university lawyer who enjoys international reputation, and maybe you're so overly careful. But you are in a political field of tension, and I'm now only characterizing this by an experience that – and now I look at the clock – is exactly one and a half hours old. You won't believe it: I'm going out of Parliament to get me these Karl replies from the office, and immediately I'm talking to a gentleman at the ring and I'm asking myself: Ladies and gentlemen, what is the point of the procedure? Sage You're telling me: Why is justice not working faster? I explain to him the way you explain this to me – a little easier, I have to say – and he says: How can I continue to trust justice if it all lasts so long and if there is little transparency? This, Minister, is another learning chapter for you. Please get on your way to Karl!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e20876	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Vogl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e20897	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! Mr Hagen's speech also made a little impression on me as if he were seeking political asylum. The urgent request of the Greens describes a little of this eternal cycle of FPÖ under Heinz-Christian Strache “opposition – government bank – indictment bank”. Many questions are raised, which essentially revolve around a person, namely Herbert Kickl. Mr Pilz has quoted him as a future Social Minister in the Shadow Cabinet of Strache to quote him. Minister of Justice Dieter Böhmdorfer has given us a number of answers, but also left a number of questions open. [[Abg. Tamandl: Brandstetter!]] Brandstetter, excuse me. [[Abg. Wöginger: You're not here that long!]] [[Call: They look so similar]] [[Call the FPÖ: You don't know each other at all!]] For good reason, he has left many questions open, since in reality the answer can only give one: Mr. Kickl, that's you. Now a party colleague from Upper Austria, Landesrat Haimbuchner, has written a book in an almost already visionary way. He gave this book the title “Mut to Truth. ” [[Abg. Kickl: Yes, you should stick to it!]] [[The speaker puts the above-mentioned book on the speaker's desk.]] [[Abg. Schrangl: You can still have some books like this!]] [[Call to the SPÖ: You should read this yourself!]] This is the picture of the Bocca della Verità, the mouth of the truth. I wonder, Mr Kickl: Do you have the courage to put your hand in here and tell us the truth? It is known that he who does not tell the truth is bitten his hand. Or like your party colleague from Upper Austria, Mr. Haimbuchner, who, when presenting this book, only pointed out that this is the party program of your party, also stood up for the election campaign, and said another time that this is a clumsy collection of ideas that has nothing to do with the editor. [[Call to the FPÖ: In this book a journalist writes!]] That is why the question to be addressed to you is, Mr Kickl: What is the truth you stand for? In the Committee, Mr Kickl, you will always require 1 300 € minimum pension. That's the demand you make. In this book you ask very clearly: 650 € Minimum board, down with minimum pensions, no claim! [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] What is your truth about this? When do I have a right to pension? Is it like in the book that the claim is only given when I'm 70? Do I have a claim of 650 €, just because in my life I had the wrong thing not to have a continuous working biography? Is your request – which you always make clear to us here in the House – an increase in child support, the truth? Or is the truth that this is actually – here it is described, too, and as a publisher, I think, should you stand by it – frozen over the next ten years? Is it your truth to work for widows and orphans, or is it your truth to abolish widow's pensions? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Mölzer.]] Is it your truth – which you have somehow tried to clarify to us in committee – that you are in favour of collective contract autonomy and that bees cannot be attacked? That is how you voted in committee. Or do you want and support what is written here, namely, interventions in collective contract autonomy, abolition of bees? That is the question to be asked. The question in the field of health care is also, Mr Kickl: What is the truth? Is it true that you are committed to egalitarian access to our health system – free access for all, no restrictions on access? Or is healthcare only interesting for those who can afford it? [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: This is more your way!]] [[Abg. Jessas, with you the hat has to burn!]] Is it the truth that there should be restraints, with all of us knowing – and this is also in the counterpoint to what you are calling for here – that self-retaining always dissuades the weakest of society from taking advantage of the health system? That's why the question is: What do you stand for? What is the truth? Do you stand for the abolition of the Chamber of Workers? Are you in favour of the first day of sick leave being a holiday? Are Against what you tell us here, do you think TTIP is coming very well? [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: These are more you!]] I know, Mr Kickl, that you are now going to let your eyes go on here from all that I have now said into the realm of fantasy. [[Abg. New builder: On Sunday in Linz we will see you again!]] Whoever knows the past knows very well what to say. That is why I should like to end by devoting to you the quotation on this book as a final sentence, Mr Kickl, and may I say to you: They lack the courage to the truth!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e21110	Next, Mr Wöginger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e21132	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! On and on, I am very careful when the colleague Pilz is setting up a urgent request, because you never know exactly how this is going to happen next time, but I have applauded twice today. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: But when it comes to the FPÖ, it fits!]] For the first time, I voted in applause when, in connection with Mr Kickl's absence, he presented the corresponding provision of the Rules of Procedure. That's just not all right. [[Abg. Hafenecker: Look into your own rows!]] [[Abg. Kickl: Count through your own rows once! Count once!]] I think it's good that you're here now, Mr. Kickl. Their absence at the last meetings is simply not worthy of a mandate and this House is not in order. [[Abg. Keck: Like the HC strache, it always lacks!]] We are elected by the people to carry out our work here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The second time I applauded when it came to the “Fall Carinthia”. This is not just about this road, which Mr Pilz called, in which this ominous company is located, but about much more – and that is what interests the people – it is about the largest financial debacle in the Second Republic, which is currently being prepared in the Committee of Inquiry, and about political responsibility. [[Call the SPÖ: So it is!]] The political responsibility, ladies and gentlemen, has primarily to bear the FPÖ, under the regime of the head of state Jörg Haider and with many responsible of the Freedom Party. [[Abg. Podgorschek: There is someone who throws stones in the glass house!]] [[Abg. Hafenecker: Who's in prison in Carinthia?]] [[Call the FPÖ:Martinz, Strasser, Grasser!]] Ladies and gentlemen, it has been mentioned very clearly once: Carinthia would argue that the Federation would not jump in! We must say thank you to all taxpayers for the fact that the Carinthian population has nothing to do with the fact that in Carinthia such a mismanagement was conducted under the leadership of freedom. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the truth! You should hold back once and also thank the entire population. [[Congratulations on ÖVP, SPÖ and Greens.]] It has negative effects, and what bothers me, that is the double morality that the Freedom Party has for decades immediately withdrawn into the snail house, from the perpetrator- to the victim role, going and saying, of which I don't know anything anymore, I don't know them anymore, then they have become orange or anything else, they haven't belonged to us. [[Call the SPÖ:Genau!]] [[Call the FPÖ.]] – Ladies and gentlemen, you must not let this happen! I found it interesting that our former colleague Stefan Petzner – who once called Haider as a human being of life – presented a book entitled “Haider’s Shadow” a few days ago. [[Abg. Podgorschek: Do you like it easily?]] There are some very interesting passages in it. When you read on page 119, a trusted person is told. This familiarity is never mentioned, but I'm allowed to read a few sentences. [[Abg. Kickl: That could have been Hazelsteiner!]] “Haider told me that he had put money aside in the time before the disappearance of this trusted one. It came from wealthy private sponsors and donors who promoted Haider from strategic interests but had no interest in being publicly associated with him. (...) Haider put the money on an account in Liechtenstein. He called it to me against the ‘not-gross’ for the party. ==References====External links== It was a double-digit million in Schilling. If he had an appointment in Vorarlberg or Tirol, few people with the amounts collected in each case went on – that is apparently how the fire brigade makes a house collection – “over the border and paid them in cash in Liechtenstein. I didn’t ask Haider if there were money from illegal sources.” I'm just wondering why he writes it if he didn't ask him anyway. The pages 121 and 122 are also very interesting: “I also knew the truth about Muammar al-Gaddafi’s party donations, which Haider’s people always demented in official statements. In fact, Haider, like other European politicians, had received donations from Gaddafi several times. The Libyan dictator gave Haider a gift on his visit. It was 150,000 to 200,000 dollars each that Haider also assumed. ” The curiousest thing at all is that these amounts had to be kept below € 10,000. He writes: “They therefore had to share the amounts in packages of 9 900 euros each and thus drop down bank branches. The exchange fees exploded in the way they declared, but the origin of the money did not go.” Ladies and gentlemen, that was only a small insight into the regime and into the system as was worked there. So don't always tell us that there was anyone else to blame! This is the main responsibility of the FPÖ under the leadership of Jörg Haider, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on ÖVP, SPÖ and Greens.]] We stand four days before the Upper Austrian country election, and I advertise as a convinced democrat and ÖVPler with every fiber of my body up to the last second so that the Lord God may spare us that this country becomes free. [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] [[Abg. Kickl: An outing of Wöinger!]] We have the best economic data and we have an excellent head of state. And, ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party, I would like to conclude by asking you two questions that have not yet been answered by any of you, and this is a matter of morality, which falls under the question: How do you deal with each other in an election campaign? I'm not talking about the fact that you actually remodelled our election song, and no one can say who did that to this day. [[Ironic hustle and bustle of Abg. Kickl]] In any case: The lady you mentioned has apologised to us because she doesn't know anything about it. - That's a story. We're not that sensitive. But if at election events a military vehicle... [[keeping a corresponding photo in height]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] Why is a military vehicle a electoral vehicle at an election event? – You haven’t explained this to this day: What's that got to look for? [[New call for tender of the Abg. Kickl.]] What's going on? We do not need such a thing in Upper Austria, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And the second: You've had a visitor to Wels. I mean, you can't do anything for visitors at events, but it's a sign why such people go to your events at all, namely people who wear a T-shirt with the title "Vizeweltmeister 1945" and with the image of a Reichsadler. [[keeping a corresponding photo in height]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, this has not lost anything in Upper Austria! This is a policy that we deeply reject. People in Upper Austria have not deserved this. And that's why I'm saying: Decide well, make decisions free, decideide for Pühringer and the People's Party!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e21377	Next come Mrs. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e21399	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr Wöginger, I am really grateful to you because you have now shown with your speech what this really is about. It's about: We are facing two country elections, and there is a group that will win all these elections – while all the other groups are trembling here! The ÖVP must be afraid to lose 1st place in Upper Austria. The SPÖ must be afraid to lose second place in Vienna. The Greens will fly from two national governments. And NEOS will probably remain below the perceptive limit. And that, ladies and gentlemen, is the reason why we are trying to throw dirt here! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And suddenly there is a four-coalition here, where one raises Mr. Peter Pilz on a throne, where at one time Mr. Petzner has become the new man of life of the Lord Wöginger to quote him, just to see that one throws quite a lot of dirt, because something will certainly stay pick, because with factual arguments one obviously no longer comes this FPÖ. [[Ironic cheerfulness and applause at the FPÖ]] And this is not just the case today, ladies and gentlemen, it has been so for months! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens.]] You know, Mr Pilz, I would have been almost inclined to deal with your speech, but in the meantime the mood here is already so explosive, already so aggressive that there are only intermediate calls. Just as chaotic as this meeting is, this Republic will be ruled! It is so chaoticly ruled by the federal government, and it is so chaoticly ruled in the countries: both in Upper Austria and above all in Vienna! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And now I come to the only real scandal of the last days, and it has been in Vienna. And that's a democratic scandal! There's a Member of Parliament... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Keck.]] – I don’t know, perhaps you could somehow calm down Mr Keck, perhaps. Give him something to drink, I think he's got a little fluid problem! [[Hello call and other calls at the SPÖ.]] There is a member of this House who turns to the speaker's desk and says – I quote now, Mr President, just so that you do not believe that these are my words –: “Raus with you! You have nothing to do with each other in a democratic Parliament! And bye!" – That said a green countryman two days ago in the Vienna Landtag. And it was applauded not only by the Green Group, but also by the coalition partner SPÖ. That's the real scandal, and that's exactly what you're trying to hide now! You don't want to talk about it, and of course you're afraid that's going up! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Calls to the Greens.]] I have here the Stenographical Protocol from Vienna's Landtag, where Mr Margulie's Member of the FPÖ accused them of shooting. Margulies literally said: “If you put a gun in your hand and put it at the border with Mr Gudenus, he would not hesitate to push it.” These are your family friends! [[towards Greens]] That's your way of thinking! That's what it's like: They want the Freedom Party out of the parliaments! No more democratic elections, because they could lead exactly to the opposite! They could lead to the FPÖ being winners on this Sunday, but also to the 11th. October, and they could also cause all other political groups to have a minute ahead of the result, and this minus is not only likely, but quite certain when looking at the surveys and looking at the mood in the population. And if the only answer of the Greens is to throw in here with dirt, if the only answer of the SPÖ Vienna is that a city councillor stands up and the Federal Party officer beats out, because she obviously has no other argument if the SPÖ shoots and interrupts its own event, then you know... [[Abg. Arbitrators: You mean where the bulwark has been ruptured on the church day!]] – You are quite right, 20 people are whistling out HC strache, of which ten are district councillors, among other things your clubwoman, among others the city councillor Sima. – Well, I congratulate you on this great argument! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: Tell the whole story!]] With all due respect, if this is the only response of the SPÖ that it has, at the same time does not offer people any solution skills in this city, with the highest unemployment, with an exploding asylum problem, with a crime explosion, then I must say: Just because there are no answers from all of you to the burning questions, there is today this theatre that you have staged here! You have tried to keep it well under the cover until Mr Wöginger has failed his own emotions and has said what it really is about. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen: Think very well about who you are giving your Kreuzerl!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e21531	Next, Mr. Dr. Walser. [[Unrest in the meeting room.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the next speaker also deserves your attention! Please, Mr. Dr. Walser.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e21562	High house! Mr Kickl, after two months you have come back surprisingly. We asked you massively. They were there in a very short time. That means you were in the house. [[Abg. Kickl: Yes, eh!]] You will appear on time at 4:32 p.m., one hour after the debate has begun in which your development in criminal cases is addressed. It's a little late! Two months of hiding, that's a little cowardly too. [[Abg. Kickl: Be a little careful!]] Apart from that, I would say that you owe us an answer now. I've seen you writing hard, that calmed me down. I am convinced that at the end you will still come out and answer the essential questions – you can write back, you have already written a lot. I ask you: Why does the FPÖ cash 20 percent for public contracts to an advertising agency? - First question. That's where we're excited about your answer. Write it down! But we'd like to tell you again. The second question I would like to ask you is the ownership structure of this incriminated advertising company, in which you were proven to be the owner and the proven commissions that, in terms of contracts, are unexplainable. And since you have been persistently refusing to explain these 20 percent, these “kickl-back payments”. Please come out, tell us why the public, why the taxpayers have to pay 20 percent more for orders, so that in black cash for the party, in black cash for FPÖ officials, whatever, have more available – colleague Pilz has pointed out it penable that there has obviously been a change – so why the taxpayers have to pay for it and how your property relationship is! [[Abg. Neubauer: We are not a Volksgerichtshof here!]] – That’s the second question. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But I would have a third question. This is about the well-known Strohmann Sila, who apparently managed the shops for you – you say: no – and then performed the ownership function for you. I would be interested in the following: There is a trust agreement from 2010, in which it says that Mr. Sila must provide you with a property free of charge if you request it. How can such a contract come about? [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Only Mr Jarolim can explain this to you!]] Can you explain to us how to force an owner to make a property available free of charge? How could that be? Except you were the owner of this property. So, Mr. Kickl, you see: Questions about questions! You have now had two months to think about it. We are all excited about what the result of this reflection phase is, what you have considered below in the “catacombs” of the liberal club and what you will give us as an answer to these central questions. This is also interesting for those taxpayers you hope for at the weekend! Maybe you'll manage to give us some information. The total damage to corruption – co-worker Pilz has calculated it – is €15 billion. I just converted it a little bit. This means that we could have hired 10,000 teachers in Austria for 30 years. [[Abg. We have always celebrated it.]] What the Freedom Party has done by corruption alone would solve our education problems at once. So, in view of these facts, I think: We have a right to you coming out of here today. We are all waiting for your answers.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e21663	The next item is Mrs Bayr's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e21685	Mr President. Minister of Justice! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Belakovich-Jenewein already has the escape – no, since she stands at the back – has not taken the flight. I would like to say to you what you have done here: The concept of ‘I’m making the world, wide-wide as I like it’ is a funny concept, but it does not make facts more true if you just repeat them. And I can tell you: Official figures and statistics show that crime has fallen in Vienna. There are figures from the Ministry of the Interior, from the police to that. I'd like to talk to you about it if it's necessary, not a problem. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] To the urgent question: The FPÖ is the party that is decorated as the party of the cleaners and the consummates. But at the same time, there is nowhere in any party of this Republic such a high frequency of convicted, suspected as in this FPÖ. And so that the people who are considering giving this party their voice and thus their confidence, knowing that, I now bring a short list, a short extract of people who choose them, to whom they give their trust, the party that unites all these people. For example, Bernhard Gratzer, former Lower Austrian state party: legally condemned for infidelity. Karlheinz Klement, former FPÖ National Council: judicially sentenced for hatred. Ernest Windholz, former FPÖ, then BZÖ National Council: legally condemned for body injury. Wolfgang Haberler, former FPÖ member of the country: legally condemned for fraud and false evidence. Karl Mayrhofer, Vorarlberger FPÖ politician: legally sentenced for hetification. Ferdinand Spielberger, former FPÖ City Council in Graz: Judicially condemned for sexual necessity. Michael Winter, former Landesobmann of the Rings of the Free Youth: Judicially condemned for hatred. Josef Trenk, successor of Peter Rosenstingl in Parliament: legally condemned for automatic fraud. August Penz, top-ranking candidate of the FPÖ at the municipal council elections in Linz: legally condemned for hatred. Wolfgang Fröhlich: Rightfully condemned for denial of the Holocaust. Reinhart Gaugg... [[Call the FPÖ:Request!]] - Yeah, I'm on the request. I'm right on the question, I'm with the environment, I'm at the swamp where you're moving where the FPÖ is moving. Reinhart Gaugg: Alko-Lenker. Karl-Heinz Grass: Investigations due to various offences are taking place. John Gudenus, former FPÖ Federal Council: for NS re-activating, denial and gross harmonization of the Holocaust legally condemned. Jörg Haider – Mr Wöginger has listed what you can put to the test –: Attitude of the investigations for death. Werner Königshofer: Judiciously condemned for evil renunciation. Walter Meischberger – probably the inventor of the FPÖ slogan “Our money for our Leut’!”, says “Your tax money for our people!” – is condemned for tax evasion; further investigations are under way. And so on and so on. I could go with Uwe Scheuch, Peter Westenthaler, and I don't know who else is. The Susanne Winter allows you to call me, because it is among us: it is legally condemned for the degradation of religious teachings and hatred. Unfortunately, my speaking time is not enough to quote my other lists, which I still have here. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, Greens and NEOS.]] But apart from the real convictions, apart from what is taking place in court, FPÖ politicians act in a way that I do not even want to touch. They hate people who are really fleeing for their lives, who come here and find a ground where they are not persecuted by war, while doing business with them at the same time. I mention only the Vienna-based ex-FPÖ district president from Ottakring, namely André d’Aron, the mattress camp – 60 € per dirty mattress – has rented asylum seekers and asylum seekers in a cellar in Ottakring, making an illegal money. If Mr Rosenkranz accuses Mr Pilz of his residence in a municipal apartment, I must say what you should not forget: There are FPÖ politicians who illegally rent Vienna municipal apartments to 500 € per piece. [[Oh, call at the SPÖ.]] – So don’t pretend you’re innocent! There are FPÖler, who house well-known jihadists in their private homes, renting them their private homes, such as the Gmündner district partyobmann Albert Willert very concretely. [[new Oh-Rufe at SPÖ]] And there are a lot of other crimes that I just don't want to list anymore. I'm very sorry, but my speaking time is running out. But what I think is particularly objectionable, these are the things that are taking place here, which is the political arson, which comes from many of the officials of the FPÖ, where they are concerned only to be afraid of what it is about them to be insecure where they are concerned to raise a group of poor people against another group of poor people. And then, when we all stand together when it comes to dealing with really big and also difficult challenges, and when we try to solve problems in concrete terms, the FPÖ is guaranteed and pours oil into the fire and is not prepared to contribute only to a problem solution – apart from continuing to sow hatred, insecurity and witches! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] You know, people look through you. They think people are stupid, but people are not stupid, voters are not stupid, they know exactly who they are, who are willing to solve problems, how to address problems, and who are a constructive element in this republic. They are not willing to choose the party that unites all those who have been condemned across the criminal code. One does not trust you with your own past, nor does one think that the FPÖ is able to deal with problems of the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e21760	The next item is Mrs Tamandel. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e21789	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen on TV screens, connected via live stream! Ladies and gentlemen! I am now almost 13 years old here in Parliament, but I think this debate today is almost a low point. This debate is therefore a low point, because now a system that is undoubtedly in place – we are dealing with it in the Committee of Inquiry; Mr Wöginger has quoted from Stefan Petzner's book that he has now published after more than five years of death by a head of state who has dominated everything in Carinthia – and that makes it possible for Mr Kickl to be so high today. Yes, Kickl is accused, yes, he should tell us where he has been for the last two months, he should tell us why he is not carrying out his duties here in the National Council, but I do not think it is necessary to devote Mr Kickl a whole urgent question to a Federal Minister, especially since the Federal Minister cannot report anything before the National Council from an open procedure. [[Call the FPÖ:Who?]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: This is an evil under stand! The fact that he's accused is a very bad assumption!]] But one thing I would like to say: The liberals always demand that all members of the government who are not so successful here or there are to resign. [[Abg. Kickl: That's exactly the problem in the whole matter!]] There are many examples of this. For example, following the Griss report, which was very objective, which is why Mrs Griss was also praised by all the parties, it suddenly said from Mr. Strache that Mr. Bundeskanzler should resign, because the Griss report would have found out exactly that Mr. Bundeskanzler should resign. It has also been demanded that the woman should resign from the Minister of Family as soon as it does not agree with the family policy of the woman family minister. Now I wonder, Mr Kickl: If you are being blamed for corruption, if against Members, against former national leaders such as Mr Gerhard Dörfler, for example, why don't you and all the others withdraw? [[Abg. Kickl: The system you're trying here is also a problem!]] Why is Mr Dörfler still sitting in the Federal Council, if you always behave as the cleaner party and always attribute the responsibility to everyone else and never want to be guilty yourself? [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I believe that it is clear that the Blues – Blue/Orange/Blue – are responsible in Carinthia, child-moving, and that is to blame them on most of the time. If we are always talking about the fact that under the blue leadership in Carinthia the largest financial scandal, namely Hypo Alpe-Adria, has happened, where the Republic then jumped in, what you always criticise, although Carinthia would have been argued, the Republic would not have jumped in, always say: Well, that was just the BZÖ, and the Haider was the BZÖ. Gernot Darmann was in both parties, in 2009 he was even Klubobmann's deputy in Carinthia. Before that he was at the FPÖ, then he was at the BZÖ, then he was at the FPK, which according to the stretch is no longer integrated into the FPÖ. What does that mean? There are a few of them, for example, Mr Dobernig, who has abstained from the committee of inquiry, who has led us around the nose twice. Thank God the Federal Administrative Court has now imposed a fine of €3,000 on him, and if he does not come, he will be presented. Or: Mr. Uwe Scheuch, “part of the game”. Perhaps you can explain this to us once, Mr. Kickl, which means “part of the game”. What does that mean? We cannot ask Mr Scheuch because he is not a member of this House. [[Abg. Neubauer: Ask for the sheep!]] [[Abg. Neubauer: Write a text message to him!]] – Yes, I could write him a text message, which is a very intelligent statement from the honourable Member. As I said, The FPÖ, who would like to rule everywhere that the Federal Government always judges, has no solutions, no concepts at all! [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: That's right!]] If you don't have to bear any responsibility and have no responsibility, you don't have to find any solutions either. You can criticize everything, but you never have to put a solution on the table. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: And if you bear responsibility, you have no solutions either!]] And God forbid you to rule somewhere in a federal country: Then this federal country will be just as pleading as Carinthia! [[Abg. Kickl: Then you should climb in Vienna in light heights!]] This must definitely be prevented, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e21937	Mr Dr Rosenkranz spoke on an actual correction. Mr President, you know the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e21961	Thank you, Mr President. – In the heat of the fight, Mrs. Tamandl called Mr. Kickl “accused” here. This applies in the context of this request and elsewhere: Mr Kickl is nowhere is criminally accused. That's the truth! There you can hop as you want!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e21988	Mrs Dr Belakovich-Jenewein spoke on another actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e22013	Thank you, Mr President. – Mrs Bayr said in her speech: The former FPÖ Head of State for Foreign Affairs of Ottakring would have operated an illegal foreign quarter for asylum seekers and thus made a lot of money. – That’s wrong! I'm actually correcting: Mr. d’Aron has never operated a district of foreigners at all. He was the owner of a rental house and had rented a housing unit, and in this housing unit were supposedly housed foreigners.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e22056	Ladies and gentlemen, perhaps we can go down the level of excitement again! We still have three words in this debate, and I would ask that we bring them on stage in order! The next item is the speech by Mr Podgorschek. [[Abg. Krainer: Perhaps Colleague Kickl could also make an actual confirmation like the colleague Belakovich-Jenewein! That was a real confirmation!]] – Mr President, I do not find this instrument in the Rules of Procedure. Please, Mr Podgorschek.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e22088	Mr President, thank you for receiving the floor. Ladies and gentlemen! To a certain extent, I even understand the debate today. We are faced with two decisive elections, and I am perfectly clear that the two government groups in particular are hypernervous, because they are likely to be losses. That's why, I think, I have no reason at all to go down to this level now. The only thing I would like to say: I still have a hundred percent confidence in the Austrian rule of law and in Austrian justice, and I also believe in a separation of violence. We do not have to decide whether anyone is innocent or guilty, that also has Mr Pilz not to decide, but it still has the independent justice to decide. [[Abg. Krainer: Wow, and that from a FPÖler!]] – Yes, exactly from a FPÖler, because I am a prime Democrat. Some who sit here confuse this Parliament with a tribunal, and especially the party of leased tolerance is characterized by intolerance and exclusion. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The Greens are for me the worthy successors of the Jacobinians. What's going on here? – You want to do nothing but set up a welfare committee, and if it were possible, you would also introduce a mental police force. They swing with morals on every occasion, people, when you skip your frustration in Facebook – sometimes quite stupid postings, that is right –, every statement is placed on the gold scale, and sometimes even existences are destroyed. All this thanks to the Greens and their police, with Mr. Oillinger, with Mr. Sailer, who does nothing but approach people. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kickl: This is your own secret service!]] Ladies and gentlemen! These virtue keepers should come in front of their own door. Imagine the liberals making sexist posters or broadcasts, as was done in Upper Austria. Here we have, for example, of the Greens: ‘Put the fun between your legs’. [[The speaker places the image in front of him on the speaker's desk.]] If this were to be done by the liberals, that would be the result of a shitstorm in Facebook. These are the Greens: toss even with dirt, but if free people are involved somewhere, follow and condemn them accordingly! Now I come to these eternal accusations in connection with the hypo. Not for nothing is my colleague Werner Kogler present today. [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: He has a meeting with the Minister of Finance!]] I very much appreciate him personally, because he's been through this perfide game for a long time. In the case of the Hypo Alpe-Adria, it is only about turning its own failure, namely also by the control of red and black in Carinthia and also of the liberals to a deceased country captain. Dear Gabi Tamandl, I don't want to tell you which information people have been there until now, but if I look at the second level and the leadership level of Hypo Alpe-Adria, then I can say that there has not been a single freeman with it until now. This scandal is only a bank scandal that unfortunately happened in Carinthia, but the Carinthian head of state has never – and the Committee has so far clearly stated – never intervened in the operational business. And that is crucial to me. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Dear Wöginger Gust, you've been better before. I'm sorry, but I understand, because on Sunday you'll have a long face, and I'll grin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e22194	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Meinl-Risinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e22244	Mr President. I have a little credit for my speaking time and I would like to say something about it. Mrs. Belakovich-Jenewein, you said it was defying, it was about the elections. – Yes, I said that in my speech: It's about the choice! I am not saying this here as a NEOS member, but as a citizen of this country: I don't want the FPÖ to become so strong! [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] I can explain this to you. Everything we have heard here today, everything we have debated here today – but not only today, but also in recent years – shows one thing that we have seen about corruption: The responsibility for public money to put tax money in your hands is really simply not possible, and I do not want to do so as a citizen of this country! [[Congratulation with NEOS and Greens.]] You will receive – as of 2015 – € 23.5 million in party funding, € 23.5 million tax money! [[Abg. Kickl: How much do you get?]] But that's not enough for you, you still have to open channels, how else you get anywhere else. – What should change with you in any responsible position in this country for the better?- Oh, my God! I mean this very seriously: I don't want that! [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] I would like to quote Stefan Petzner again – he must have Schnackerl – because he said something very remarkable in the course of his book presentation. He said that right-wing populist parties are important in democracy because they have the ear to the people, to the citizens, what are the concerns, what is being discussed. - Yeah, okay. But he also said two other things. Secondly, he said that right-wing populist parties must not rule because they cannot. It would be completely wrong to give them a responsibility regarding tax money. The third point is even more remarkable, because late insight: Right-wing populist parties should receive no more than 10 percent in a living, in a good democracy. – And I really share this opinion. I would like to make a proposal, also very constructive. This report by the ‘Falter’ on these accusations of illegal party financing was published that week when the Court of Auditors presented its report on the accounts of the parties on Monday. We have seen that in these accounting reports there are gaps among all parties as regards party financing and possible handles of the parties in the tax pot on other grants, such as on public contracts to party companies. And then there are the accusations of illegal party funding. We know that there are loopholes, and the Court of Auditors always points out. If you – and I suppose you will say yes – are also interested in closing all the loopholes, then I have made the proposal – and I am delighted if you support me – that we are addressing the Standing Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors to cover all these gaps, to introduce genuine sanctions mechanisms and to really debate how we can make them more transparent and cleaner in this Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e22308	The last speaker in this debate is Mr Magistrate. Darmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e22329	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Here in the Honourable House is very often spoken of by systems. This debate makes one clear: We clearly have two types of systems to do here and today. One system is that which clearly states that the judicial system alone is responsible for investigations. And this system is also held up by the liberals accordingly. The second system I am talking about is that, ladies and gentlemen, it is obvious – especially in pre-election stages – that a parliamentary club is responsible for the accusation, but also – in the person of Mr Peter Pilz – for the conviction. This is the other system that is obviously carried by red, black, green and NEOS in this way. This is extremely questionable – and in particular I am now putting this allegation towards SPÖ, ÖVP and towards the Greens – when we know that in Carinthia there is a state government in charge, whose head of state is led as accused in a corruption procedure, whose councillor Schaunig-Candut is led as accused in a corruption procedure, whose country day president number one – including SPÖ – is led as accused in a corruption procedure. This is clearly not a problem for the ÖVP and for the Greens at all, to have a coalition with this so-called "smooth" party – there are investigations in progress. That means that everything here is nothing but a spectacle in the run-up to the Upper Austrian and Vienna country elections, because if you were indeed about corruption, you – and you first of all, Mr Pilz – would have to get up right now, throw out your mobile phone, where you are always so keenly typing around, call Mr. Landesrat Holub and say: [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] Cancel immediately this coalition with the SPÖ in Carinthia! – But that is not the case, because the Greens do nothing but a spectacle. This acting is nothing new, we remember all the last elections. [[Calls to the Greens.]] When else than before elections is Mr Pilz, who has no other task in this Green Club than to defamate and misrepresent people, a performance, ladies and gentlemen? To be honest, that is the access of the Greens: without arguments, without dealing with facts at a personal defamatory level against people, and then, if it turns out to be unstoppable, not even to have the cause – as at the time in the debate on the judiciary – to apologise to the rulers who were previously defamated! This is the access of the Greens. But it is understandable and equally embarrassing to the population to make such a spectacle here and today, and only because of the elections at this level political competitors without facts, but only because of an election motivation, to make these accusations because of your panic against the results of the elections, as they have been made today – and to forget what work in itself would be necessary for the population in this country in the face of half a million unemployed, with 1.2 million people on the poverty line, with an inedible life for the population in our country, with indistinct apartments for the population in our country, with a hypo-stateization by SPÖ and ÖVP, which has inflicted billions and aberbillions on us of poverty, in ESM detentions, have been decided by Red-Black Greens, which have led the population with twenty billions of the Greek and other Pleite States aid, in the asylum chaos, with the right of entry into the Red-Schwarz-Green with the countries of the country, and with the countries of the most strongly transformed to the countries of the population, and to the countries of the population, as well-developed as the countries of the population, as well as the countries of the population. [[Abg. Jarolim: such a nonsense!]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am not talking at all about slipping out the social system for economic migrants, which you allow, of expanding the health system which you allow from SPÖ and ÖVP. – All the problems that our Austrian people have to bear because you do not care about because you act responsibly and prefer to make a spectacle here before a election against a political competitor who clearly represents the interests of the population, namely, against the liberals. That is what the people have fully recognized – and, accordingly, it will punish you in the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e22389	Next, Mr Krainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e22410	Mr President. It is not enough for the liberals to turn a discussion on relatively simple, clear accusations against their party and its Secretary-General into a refugee debate. But this seems to be so common at the FPÖ: No matter what the subject, it is always against the European Union and against foreigners, refugees or whatever. Although in reality the reason why we are now holding this debate is relatively simple, clearly understandable accusations to the liberals, the four speakers of the liberals have not managed to say one sentence on the accusations. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP, Greens and NEOS.]] [[Abg. New builder: Just like you right now!]] I've been sitting in here for hours and listening to the debate. But the liberals still have a remaining speaking time, and MP Kickl has found it worth it to appear here in the House after two months, perhaps he can also bring light into the dark. It's relatively simple: One accusation is: If the state government has ordered services from an agency to lay out ads or the like, 20 percent – be not as nervous now, please; that is relatively simple – have been credited to almost 20 percent of the FPÖ's order. [[Abg. Stefan: Is this a court?]] [[Call the FPÖ: Is that a witness agreement?]] [[Further calls to the FPÖ]] [[Abg. Neubauer: You only confuse the location!]] [[Abg. Stefan: This is a request here!]] This is clearly illegal party funding, where public procurement is actually overturned in party banks. – one accusation. Four speakers from the FPÖ: no word on this accusation. [[Abg. Stefan: Seven!]] The second accusation is that money, I say, that the state government and the FPÖ have paid to this agency, almost in cash, in the case of the case, in the envelope – no matter what – has been paid to leading party officials. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: White money!]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: White money!]] [[Abg. Stefan: If you know!]] There's no answer. Is that true, and what happened to this money? [[call to the FPÖ.]] A speaker and three speakers have spoken here about the FPÖ and no one has found just one word for it. Instead, we have heard untruths, such as, for example, crime would rise in Vienna, although we all know that it is sinking – but it is election struggle, so you have to say that. We hear from our colleague Darmann from Carinthia some fairy tales – but it is a campaign, not in Carinthia, but there seems to be always a campaign. And we hear any stories from Podgorica who says in the investigation committee that the FPÖ would never have had anything to do with the hypo. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Podgorschek: I didn't say that!]] It's a very interesting thing. [[Abg. Schimanek: He didn't say that! That's not true!]] - Oh, that's it? No, it's true, he said they never intervened in the operational business. [[Abg. Podgorschek: That's...!]] – Yes, but it was of course... [[Abg. Podgorschek: Tell me a proof!]] – No, we are obviously sitting in different committees, because – just an example, without looking into it, only what I remember – a liberal finance council responsible for looking at the fact that the liabilities do not go up through the ceiling, has only resigned when he had the promise of the hypo to get a 300 000 € contract, a 300 000 € contract as a consul! [[Call the FPÖ: Like the Linz swap!]] Or did you get away with that? [[Abg. Podgorschek: Where did this come out?]] – Finance Councillor Piper has himself said that he had the promise of the bank for this contract before he resigned! [[Abg. Podgorschek: This is the interpretation of Kai Jan Krainer!]] That's just an example. [[Subsequent calls to the FPÖ.]] The other example is: The shadow finance minister, that is, Dobernig, who does not even want to come before the committee of inquiry, who scrapes the files and shoots them in rivers, has now received a penalty of €3,000, because he is refusing to come to the investigation committee and to speak and answer, why he is responsible with other liberals for the fact that the liabilities of the country of Carinthia are shot by the ceiling and cost us billions of euros. [[Abg. Podgorschek: Now we also know why he is not coming!]] [[Call the FPÖ: This is unfair!]] [[Call the FPÖ: We've heard that, you just repeat everything!]] And to strain the bow on refugee policy Do you know how long we could finance the accommodation of refugees in Austria alone with the money only for the hypo from 1945 onward? – From 1945 to 2272 we could finance all refugees, the accommodation et cetera. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: What does this have to do with the indebtedness of Vienna?]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Why do you make a refugee debate out of it?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Darmann.]] Only so much to the responsibilities of the liberals in politics. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Do you want to talk about the indebtedness of Vienna? Tell me a little bit about it! Why can't you run a campaign in the third place?]] But that also shows what you leave if you are in the government, not only for the present, but also for the future. We will pay hundreds of years for what you have done in this short time. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and representatives of ÖVP and Greens.]] And one last word to Mr Podgorschek: I would really be careful if I read in the “Oberösterreichische Nachrichten” and others – it’s not just about these posts regarding refugee boats and “Schifferl sink”, hahaha, or when asylum homes burn to “fine, gasoline pure” or something – that call for free officials to boycott a business because the husband’s wife is committed to refugees. At some point it really ends with the way in which the liberals act. [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] You can only say that. At some point it's over, and you should come out and apologize to colleagues from your party!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e22768	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Pilz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e22789	Ladies and gentlemen! I would have expected a liberal speaker/vocal speaker to say a single sentence: The accusations are wrong, they're not right. - No one said that. Nobody defended Kickl in this. No one found a counter-argument. Either the liberal speakers know that all the accusations are true, or they have another reason to let their representatives and Secretary-General down publicly. – I cannot answer this question. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: But that's the only thing you can't answer!]] There are four open questions. The first question is: Why is Hans Weixelbaum, who is a suspect in this process, still the Federal Managing Director of the Freedom Party? The second question is: Who cashed the 20 percent of the country's Carinthia in FPÖ? The third question is: Who has received the money case and Kuverts, the party or its officials behind the back of the party? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stefan]] And the fourth and perhaps most important question is: What does Member Kickl need three times a strawman, twice for his agency interests, once for the secret purchase of a property? [[Abg. Kickl: Incorrect!]] What does he need a strawman three times? Mr Kickl, when You can answer these questions, then there is only one possibility: You are now speaking and replying! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Stefan: Investigator Pilz!]] I'll tell you what the alternative is: If you are unable or if you are too cowardly to answer these questions, then pull the consequence and put your mandate back, because then you are no longer able to complete your function as a member of the Austrian National Council. [[Abg. Kickl: I think you missed your job, Mr. Pilz!]] [[Abg. Kickl: Apply to the prosecutor's office!]] I ask you to answer these questions or step back!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e22903	No one is reporting on this. [[Oh, call at SPÖ and ÖVP.]] The debate is closed. [[18:08:14]] Short debate on a deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e22933	We shall now proceed to a brief debate on the request of the honourable Members. Meinl-Reisinger, the Constitutional Committee for Reporting on the motion for a resolution 840/A by Mr Mag. Meinl-Reisinger and colleagues concerning a Federal Constitutional Act amending the Federal Constitutional Act, a period of time until 11. ==References== After the end of this debate, the vote on the proposed deadline will take place immediately. We are going into the debate. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with the first speaker having a speaking time of 10 minutes for reasons of reasons. Statements by members of the Federal Republic of Germany Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Meinl-Risinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e22972	Mr President. Yeah, we'll discuss this for the second time. I'd like to apologize for that, but I was a little surprised. I looked at this constituency in the Vienna newspaper for the Vienna election a few days ago, and there is the question: ‘The function of ‘non-official city councils’ is to be deleted. Only government fractions will be represented in the city Senate in the future.” You know, I've been making this up months ago, and you've been discussing it here. It has already been discussed in the Constitutional Committee, but unfortunately it has not been discussed, but has been postponed without major discussion. What really surprised me in this constituency in the “Wiener Zeitung” is that the SPÖ answers this question with “Yes” – weighting of four points at least three points, that is, very important – the FPÖ with “more yes”, the ÖVP with “more yes”, the Greens with “Yes” – weighting even four out of four points – we fight with “Yes” – clearly, we have been fighting for months – Vienna otherwise also with “Yes” and list Pollishansky also with “Yes”. I'm surprised at that, because we discussed here and I didn't even hear any unmistakable arguments about it, especially of the liberals, when I open up this constituency, and I think it's a little bit like this: Populistly, you give the answers – even if you do not represent them here in the House – that perhaps fit in with the constituency. Yesterday or yesterday, by the way, there was also a vote on vienna.at among citizens or readers on this question, whether these non-official city councils should be abolished, and 98.7 percent answered it with Yes, exactly 232 votes in favour and three votes in no. I wonder, do the three votes of nos perhaps come from the three non-executive councillors of the FPÖ? – That could be quite the case. What am I talking about? . We have the need to discuss this here in Parliament because, as we know, in accordance with the Federal Constitutional Act, all political groups are to be represented in proportion to the municipal council. This rule in the Federal Constitutional Act does not open the way so to speak, that the Vienna Landtag – and the Vienna state parties obviously all agree – simply abolish these really unnecessary posts. It's four. Now you can say that it's not about a lot of money, but it also sums up, it gets everyone over €10,000 a month, and there's actually no function in it. I know now that the arguments come back again, it is an essential control function. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: But it is!]] Well, but we also have a government here in the National Council – democracy works – and corresponding control functions on the part of the opposition in the National Council. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: We get the government documents! That's the difference!]] You can also anchor control functions in the municipal council if they are so important. They also say that the FPÖ is “more like yes”. Perhaps you can talk to your colleagues in Vienna. You say you're for it. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Yes, but under conditions!]] – We can talk about the conditions, but we have not talked about them, nor have we in the Constitutional Committee, and that is the point, and that makes me so angry, because it is so symptomatic. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: But this is not our fault!]] There is just election time, this question is asked, and all the parties answer with Yes, we don't really need these pointless posts, and nothing will happen again. We will probably not discuss this in the Constitutional Committee, because it will certainly not be adopted, and even if it comes to the discussion there, it will be postponed. And so there are really fifty examples in this House of how inadmissible the political system is actually. All parties agree that there is no need for these posts, and nothing happens anyway. I don't understand that, I mean, because it's really about a standstill. There is a mini-structure reform that we could do, as many other things, and not even that happens. I'll give you other examples. We have repeatedly been committed to reducing the really absurd high level of party funding in Austria, and have put forward some proposals. [[Abg. Neubauer: Why didn't you repay it?]] At that time, Mr Kickl, who unfortunately is no longer here, said that we are now making a coalition of reason against this – I am actually wondering what is so reasonable about it? – We have the highest party funding worldwide. It's insanity high, and I don't see that. [[Abg. Neubauer: How much have you paid back?]] We have to bring a move in here. [[Abg. New builder: We can't do anything if you don't pay back!]] Another example: My first request here in the National Council was – and allow me to carry it out – at least the last few hours I have spent here – a request for the introduction of an Information Freedom Act. I think it is really necessary that we have this in Austria, because it actually prevents corruption and the economy of friends, because there is a right for citizens to understand what administration and politics are doing. We have the constitutional secret. I know this isn't easy, but that's almost two years ago, and we're still discussing it and we don't have a solution on the table. I really wonder what you are actually telling the citizens out there who ask you the question: Are you for the abolition of non-official councillors? – You probably stand at the election stand and say: Yes, yes, we are. But then you also have to make the question what you are actually doing here in this House – quite openly. We postpone all the opposition's requests, and I know that the accusations come over and over again that all of this is humbug and nonsense, what we're doing there. It may be that you're picking up half of me, maybe a third of it's still so complex that you need to negotiate for a longer time. But these are essential structural issues, and we need a move in Austria. It is simply not appropriate to postpone everything. That is why today my request again with the date 11. October. After all the parties agree, at least in the constituency of the Vienna newspaper, I assume that maybe before the 11th. October can change this mini-determination in the Federal Constitutional Act so that we can free the way for the Vienna Landtag or the Vienna Municipal Council to take this decision in accordance with the will of the parties here that there are no longer these non-official city councils. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e23089	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Doorer. – From now on, a speaking time of 5 minutes will apply. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e23112	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! There is NEOS' request for the abolition of non-official city councils in Vienna. In its application, the NEOS quote states: ‘The Vienna system (...) does not fulfil any recognizable democratic policy purpose.’ I can assure you that the Vienna Constitution attaches importance to the inclusion of the opposition, the information and the control rights of the opposition, which you yourself have referred to in your speech, Mrs Deputies. However, if the Vienna Landtag may discuss the non-official city councils in the context of a major democratic reform in Vienna, reassessed, and decides that a change in the federal constitution will be sought, I think, this is the occasion for the Austrian National Council to also discuss and decide on such changes. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: There she moves one institution to the other!]] I see no reason for the National Council to become active on its own and to change the current political practice in Vienna, in the Federal Capital. I see your proposal as rather a lex election struggle to subtracte a populist-actionist show still in the final phase of the Vienna election campaign. [[Interlocutory calls from MEPs Meinl-Reisinger and Scherak.]] I think there is nothing more to discuss here, just a few weeks before the election of the country day – as long as it still exists. There are political declarations of will by the candidate parties for the new Vienna Landtag, that the Vienna women in the bodies look at this once and set themselves the right course. I believe that rapid shots in relation to the federal constitution are not part of the living political practice, and that is why the SPÖ will clearly reject your proposal. [[Abg. Neubauer: But that was different!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e23169	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Gerstl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e23190	Mr President. Mrs Meinl-Reisinger! In your application you have two small errors in it. One error is: They say it would be an Austrian-wide unicum that there are non-official city councils in Vienna. - That's not right! Rather, there are non-official city councils in Innsbruck – first point. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Then we'll get rid of them too!]] [[Abg. Lugar: Then it's much better!]] Second point: They claim that an amendment to the Constitution is necessary for the abolition of non-official councils in Vienna. That's not right. You only need to amend § 36 of the Vienna Constitution, then non-official city councils are immediately cancelled, then in Vienna it is just as much as in all other municipalities of Austria that each member of a city Senate is also assigned a business area. [[Abg. Mile-Risinger: Do you want to go back to the proportion?]] Ladies and gentlemen! Do you want to make a change to all the communities? [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: You also want to “yes”!]] – So far, in more than 2 100 municipalities, it was practice and use that you have the same access in all communities. If we want to change this, I am happy to be ready to say that to all the communities if the community, the town government, says that, I am willing to change that. So far, the majority of the communities, the great majority for me, have always had the experience and also said: We would like to have extra-partial cooperation in a community, because in a community it is about the immediate needs of the people, because we do not want such a party-political Hickhack to happen. If you want it to be different with the communities, we can do it. [[Abg. Meinl-Reisinger: I'm just talking about Vienna, Mr. Gerstl!]] We can do it differently if the other communities want it. If you want to have a change in the control system in Vienna – for this I am immediately to have, because I believe that these non-official city councils are not the good instrument to really exercise control in the city. There are certainly many other possibilities, and in the course of an expansion of the control system, we can of course also talk about the fact that there will be no more non-official city councils in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e23293	The next item is Mrs Dr Belakovich-Jenewein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e23315	Mr President. Mrs. Colleague! You yourself have said that we are already discussing this for the second time today. The abolition of non-official city councils now simply as you imagine it would mean that all opposition parties are cut off from the information flow. It's a little different in the country day than it's going on here, that's point one. That means you have to think about it before: Is there any other way to get information as an opposition party? - That's one. The second is: If we say that non-official city councils in Vienna are nonsense, then you're right, yes, we don't really need that. It would be wiser if every city councillor also received a place of business, because it is actually not to be seen. If you look at the history of these non-official city councils, then this is a far-reaching decline, namely, in times when in reality there were only SPÖ alone governments. At that time, the opposition was almost wanted by the SPÖ to keep the opposition out of the city government, mainly ÖVP and a little bit more FPÖ. You know, if you do it as you say now, then it's not an optimization of the constitution or the administration, but actually a step to more transparency if you decide how you want it to be today. I don't think you want to. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] They first stood up and said: It's my last days in here. Mrs. Meinl-Reisinger, even if you are elected to the Vienna Landtag, which is not yet fixed, do you not believe that you are still sitting in here in October? – In Vienna the clocks go differently, they go slower, you will have to get used to it, and the opposition rights are something different than we are used to here. It may be called good or bad. But what makes me particularly happy, and I would like to say that at the end of the day, is the change of sense in the SPÖ. Last time, I remember, Mr. Arbitrator was here who said, so it could be abolished immediately from him. Today the SPÖ speaker said it should stay that way. - That's a good thing. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: You want that too!]] I also point out that city councillor Ludwig said this, he's for maintaining it, and I also think it's a good, important and right system. And to your accusation, we want to take a nap, Mrs. Meinl-Reisinger: Believe me, we'll talk after 11. On October. The FPÖ on the way to number one may not have to have city councils without a place, because all of our city councils will then have a place.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e23357	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Musiol. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e23379	I have to admit, I am somewhat inconceivable, as can be done from a debate that could be democratically and democratically conducted, such an election force, as my previous speaker has now done. I am full of colleague Meinl-Reisinger, and I do not care why she has put this on the agenda today. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Because election is campaign!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hagen.]] This is a demand that has been in existence for a long time, not only on the part of NEOS, who are a relatively young party, but also on the part of the Greens, not only at the federal level, but also at the Vienna level, where we would even lose a so-called post if it was implemented – at the time when we were still in opposition – because it is simply a democratic political history. Modern democracies are characterized by the fact that government and opposition are meaningfully separate, and that what exists in Vienna is simply a mixture of how we know it at different levels in Austria, but it could be regulated more clearly and better. [[Abg. Wheeler: Coalition partner!]] We have a similar request in the committee, and I understand the frustration as regards requests as a whole and in particular in the Constitutional Committee, that when you bring in an application as an opposition politician, you often have to take part in the campaign for years. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: But we do!]] – I also meant not only the left side of opposition policy, but everyone. But we have a comparable request, and perhaps ours is different in one point – and I think you see that in terms of content, but we have written it in more detail: What is important is that, if this previous system is abolished, the information currently running through this function of non-official city councillors towards opposition parties is regulated in a different way – in the sense of transparency, in the sense of control, in the sense of the possibility of being able to exercise clear control. But for that I do not need the post of non-official city councillors. And against this background, Mr Türk, I do not understand your speech at all, because I also remember – Klubobmann Arbitrators are just coming in – that the SPÖ... [[Abg. Arbitrators: I've been there for a while! Bad watch!]] – Just come down, wherever it comes down from. I remember that the SPÖ has shown itself very openly to this project, and I do not understand your blockade at all now. And fast shots can't be the talk at all. I mean, you've been in the National Council for some time now, and you've been in Vienna City Council/Landtag before. That is an old demand, even our requests have been in committee for months, if not almost a year. We are not talking about political rapid shots, but we are talking about long-standing democratic proposals that could have been implemented. I don't share either. Your opinion is that you have to wait there for any calls from rural or municipal councils. We are a self-confident Federal Constitutional Legislator, and if we believe, in majority or in constitutional laws with two-thirds, that something is to be implemented, then we do not need resolutions of country days or councillors. They may sometimes help to estimate how the others see it, but you can have a self-confidence there and don't have to wait for Vienna's politics, especially since I am at least aware that there is a very broad consensus in Vienna about making reforms, even between the SPÖ and the Greens. That's why I didn't understand your previous word. I find the democratic political sense, the political importance of democracy, and therefore I support this concern – no matter whether it is elections or not.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e23461	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e23483	Of course, “fast shot” is exciting if we have a request from 11th. On December 11, 2014, we are now setting a deadline for the 11th. Do October 2015. That is if I can count correctly, and I hope I can do it now, exactly ten months in which we have done it. This is, of course, absurd as a political rapid shot, and I also believe that the population would not understand it if we needed ten months for such a topic. We need much longer for many other issues, that is right, but it is precisely there, again, how slow this Parliament is working, because certain things are obviously not desirable. I remember a discussion in the Constitutional Committee. Mr Schrangl said at the time: Well, the NEOS in Linz, they'll look at them when we raise this demand. – So, I don't think they're going to look at each other, because they have exactly the same opinion. What it is about is that one does not receive such unnecessary posts – and unfortunately, Vienna is particularly good at that, because there are many unnecessary posts – even if we know that, obviously, all parties in the Vienna Landtag are of the opinion that we could abolish this. The only thing we ask for here and what the Greens have requested is that the Wiener Landtag has the possibility. Mr Gerstl has just said that he now has the opportunity to create a pro-prising government. That's right, he has the possibility, but obviously he doesn't want to, otherwise he would have done it for a long time. This is my access if he hasn't already done it. Now we can discuss whether pro-porz governments are in principle meaningful. I also think that it is a more lively democracy, if not all parties are involved in the government from a certain size, and that does not lead to a number of outrages, which are repeated in pro-prising governments. A nice example would also be the topic NEOS: In Salzburg, our city councillor, the SPÖ mayor, has almost been deprived of the resort because she has done something else. So, obviously, the pro-pore government didn't work so well either. Nevertheless, it is an option. What we want here is simply to give the country day this option, because it is about a lot of money and very little influence. It is true that control rights are important, but I can also make these control rights quite different. Side by side: There are very different posts in Vienna. We know the situation with regard to the Vice-President of the Vienna City School Council. It was very exciting at the time when the FPÖ really quickly pointed at these posts, because there is no time to distribute money again. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] He's pretty powerless, too. We know the Vice-Chairman, and we are all not quite sure whether it needs to be done in this way. As I have just read in the newspaper on Sunday, – in the event of a corresponding election outcome of the FPÖ – the Mr. Nowzige Klubobmann Gudenus in the Wiener Landtag will be Vice-Citizen's Champion, however, because from a third of the votes you will obviously receive a vice-Citizen's chair directly. This also does not involve a very large number of rights. The only thing he can do is write on his business card “Vice Mayor”. “The press” has written – I quote –: He will most likely like it. I can't judge that. But that is something that is simply not necessary. Finally, to repeat this: No one here wants to decide whether and how the Wiener Landtag has dealt with it. The Wiener Landtag can decide for himself, and he should decide for himself. The only thing we ask for is that he has the opportunity to decide for himself: whether he chooses the proportion variant – he can choose it now, but he can't choose the other variant. The fact is: There are currently no councillors who get a corresponding salary, and de facto no one knows why you should equip someone who has little rights with such a princely salary.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e23531	Next item is the report by Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e23553	Mr President. High National Council! The colleague before me has already just said what it is all about. I don't want to pull this out for long. Proporz, this is also our line from the Stronach team – quite clear thing, reducing administration. This could be done quickly with a spring stroke. I do not understand why the government parties and, of interest, the FPÖ in Vienna do not want this. When I listened closely to the colleague Belakovich-Jenewein from FPÖ earlier: In Vienna the clocks are different and a little slower. – That's where I'd recommend: Look at Vorarlberg, the watches go fast. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] We have for a long time abolished the proporz system, and there has not been any councillors there for a long time, a proporz government has not been there for a long time. So the Vorarlbergers are known for this, and I am a Vorarlberger, that they are very economical, that they have an Alemann vein and that is thought with reason. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: I meant Mrs. Reisinger...!]] This should also be a little bit in Vienna. That wouldn't be a bad approach for you, maybe you can take it a little bit. I come across this point with the speed of the Duracell rabbit. I don't want to advertise anything now, but maybe change Once you get the battery in your watch, it may go faster, and then it works the way the citizens really expect it: that their tax money will be handled reasonably, that their tax money will be used sparingly. They all have a little bit of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e23597	No one has made any mention of this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the honourable Member. Meinl-Reisinger, ladies and gentlemen, the Constitutional Committee on Reporting on the motion for a resolution 840/A by Mr Mag. Meinl-Reisinger and colleagues concerning a Federal Constitutional Act amending the Federal Constitutional Act, a period of time until 11. ==References== Whoever is for this, please give a sign. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. [[18:34:47]] 3rd. Point Report of the Parliamentary Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the strengthening of democracy in Austria (791 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e23640	We are now starting the negotiations on the agenda again. We come to item 3 of the agenda. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr Magistrate. Stefan. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e23667	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We are discussing the report of a committee of inquiry on the subject of "strengthening democracy in Austria". To do this, I have to say: In principle, I am grateful that she has happened. There were a number of events in which very interesting lectures – from various sides, from representatives of the Austrian countries, from international representatives – were held on the subject of direct democracy, i.e. a very interesting view. I am also grateful for the support given by Parliament, by Parliament's staff, by the club staff who again had much more effort. I am also grateful for the fact that we have now, as a result of the report by the government parties ÖVP and SPÖ, because now this Gretchen question: How do you keep it with direct democracy?, was finally answered openly. Name: There is only one step back, we do not want to have an honest continuation and further development of direct democracy. That is the result now, and that is now God's open on the table. So far we've been stopped, now we know. Very briefly – the spectators certainly want to know a little about how things come about, how things develop –: About four years ago, there were the first concrete requests in Parliament on direct democracy, for example from the FPÖ, but also from the Greens. The FPÖ has a clear concept: We believe that what Parliament has to do must also be able to do with citizens. This means that there must be a real legislation that is also initiated from the population, i.e. an honest participation in decision-making. This means that a popular desire, which is successful with a certain number of signatures, leads Parliament to have the opportunity to take this initiative, and that, if that does not happen, it will come to a referendum, and then at least that becomes a law that has been initiated. The second essential point is that there is a so-called Veto folk vote. This means that there is a possibility for citizens to demand that a referendum be carried out through a law already adopted in Parliament. That was our clear concept, as I said. That's about four years ago. The reaction was that a working group was set up under the direction of President Prammer, who, unfortunately, had died so early. For a year there was a discussion about direct democracy. It didn't really go much further, but after all, you once tried to approach yourself. Then there was a bill of SPÖ and ÖVP, not out of the working group, but just so. That was very weak. There was a so-called citizen's request that, in the National Council, as part of Question Time, requests from citizens can be read. That was, I think, the only really innovative, and that was already hair-throwing. Then the opposition has found – which is not often found, over which otherwise very much, as you have heard again today, sharp boundaries –: We have a completely different view here. And we have agreed on a compromise proposal in the sense that we have said that at the end of a successful popular desire there is at least one popular survey. A popular survey is non-binding. It's not what we want, but anyway. This was a compromise proposal because we thought: All right, maybe the government parties could be involved. Then, next step: The Greens are shredded and then, together with the government parties, have made a new proposal, just like the opposition proposal, only with much higher obstacles that are almost unreachable – 700 000 necessary support signatures so that one can come to a popular survey at all, and a massive subject limitation. There was an opinion on this proposal for a law – that is to say, there was a review here, not the same as the right of enforcement that we have decided here today; so we are not, but you are largely – and this review process has then come to the conclusion that there are, of course, still open questions here. Luckily, then, the choice has come, and the thing has fallen asleep once. After the election, the following assessment was carried out: So you can't let that become law! It has to be further discussed. And then the Enquete Commission comes: Again for about a year now these events, and the result is: We do not even want to have a popular survey at the end of a successful popular desire. We simply don't want anything that goes in this direction, nothing that can force the population, which, in the end, may be decisive for federal legislation, though not directly binding, but still somewhere, we say, almost binding. That is, at the end of this survey commission, we simply have a massive step back – and that is very disappointing. We have today tabled a request for a referendum on the right of entry, because we have found that there is a great deal of ground in this area. It is a matter for the Commission and the Council to take a decision on this Unfortunately – I am sorry because we are also making a request with the Greens today – the Greens are not going along with it, with the argument: It's the wrong season because winter is coming. So there is no need for direct democracy, that is very disappointing. But otherwise, I have to say that we here, together with the other opposition parties, have a minority report that we are presenting here. It will also make a corresponding request to help direct democracy to progress. I can only hope that you think about it and that you are serious about it and that you will give the citizen the opportunity to participate in the decision-making process. I assume that the results of the elections They will be winged.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e23749	Next item is the report by Mr Wittmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e23781	Mr President. High house! I believe that this Committee of Inquiry will be a very sustainable Commission because many good ideas have been introduced and we will gradually draw from these ideas and implement them. If it is now complained that we are not maintaining this request, then it must be said that this request was not approved very well in the course of the review and, of course, the world is also turning and one says: If you now have a request or a popular desire and then joins a popular survey – which is not mandatory – you will still be instigated by this. Then: First, people get involved in a popular desire, then people get involved in the poll, and then it can happen that nothing comes out anyway. Whether this is the yellow of the egg, I dare doubt. The second story is, and this could not be disassembled at this Commission of Inquiry: At a time – and here in Austria has really done much more than we expected, in practice – to which billionaire parties buy, we would still be able to provide them with the automation to buy a legislative text on a referendum. I think that's a misdevelopment. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lugar.]] Then: Who can encamp? – The media can campaign or those people who have the capital to drive and carry out campaigns. This would mean that those people who buy parties would also be given the opportunity to buy themselves legal texts. I think that's a misdevelopment. [[call to the FPÖ.]] In your report, California is repeatedly mentioned as a model example, but it is Your report does not mention that those direct democratic decisions have led California to live on the edge of the bankruptcy, because precisely these surveys have led to the withdrawal of public funds and have not been able to afford them anymore. [[Abg. Beautiful: But that's all...!]] These are all the growth you have to consider. The third is – in a situation like now, in an emotionally charged situation –: Who would protect the minority from the majority, for example the refugees from a popular vote? – A temporarily heated situation that does not exist permanently [[Abg. Lugar: Someone should do that once...!]] Who would be able to protect this minority? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nice.]] – One should ask these questions very well. This is a question of doubt which has also been raised in the Committee on Inquiry and which has not been able to be eliminated. But there are still positive findings from this Commission: We will open the door constitutionally to a strengthening of democratic instruments at national and city level. We'll try to look at best practices, too. It has been a great deal of inventiveness – including the representatives of the countries and communities that gave their lectures here – and I believe that this opportunity must be given, because it is not possible to intervene in federal legislation, such as tax legislation and other legislation. I think this is a good way to look at how it works at this level. I also believe that this Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection can be derived from the fact that people want to participate in concrete legislative projects in the run-up to a draft law; that information is to be given to what projects are to be carried out here; but also that they resolve the silence of office, which is now under negotiation, in order to allow more transparency here, that the Federal Government should make project reports, and that an objective voting booklet, such as in Switzerland, will be introduced before voting. I think these derivatives from the survey are very good. I also believe that it is necessary to introduce a participation in the political process before becoming a law. I think the crowdsourcing according to the Finnish system is excellent. That citizens should be picked up as early as possible in the face of a problem of burning interest, I think this is a very good result of this committee of inquiry, and I also believe that this is an essential upgrading of the legislative process. The direct democratic instruments are also being upgraded. In the future, every popular desire supported by at least 100 000 votes is to be treated and addressed at at least two so-called popular meetings in Parliament, and in these popular meetings a right of speech is also to be given in the plenary session of the National Council for the contributing persons, for the Plenipotentiaries. [[Abg. Cute: What does this bring to the people?]] That means there will be something in this direction very well. I do not consider the core question to be resolved by the proposal submitted here, and I even think that this proposal is counterproductive. As a matter of fact, those concerns that I have mentioned here have become bigger in the Committee on Inquiry than smaller ones.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e23868	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Musiol. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e23889	Mr President. I am pleased that you are currently in the chair, because we have a common history in this project, and I also look at the Clubobmann a.D. Josef Cap: we three who have negotiated this so-called compromise in June 2013 and set it up, unfortunately, have not decided because the election came. At the time, however, I had the impression that it was here, both by the ÖVP and by the SPÖ, or at least by their two representatives, that it was seriously meant by the further development of direct democracy. Now it is more than two years later, and of course today could be a good day for the further development of direct democracy. It should be left to everyone to judge whether it is a good day for him or for her; for me it is not a good day. We have had the opportunity, both then and now, or would have had the opportunity to really bring about a good reform here, if you want to. What has happened, however, is that for a year we have been dealing with the development of democracy, both in direct democracy and in parliamentary democracy, very intensively, but if I have listened to you, Mr Wittmann, now and also in the last session of the Committee of Inquiry, and also Mr Gerstl, I have a clear question on the tongue that you can either call out or cannot answer: What have you learned this year? My impression is that all the arguments you're making right now have been presented a year ago. These are not arguments I just want to wipe off the table, but in the In the meantime, there has been this process, in which we have even given eight citizens the opportunity to contribute, and in which Parliament has also learned for the first time how accessible – not now in the sense of physical access – for our discussions and debates for eight citizens, which were held on 26 May. October 2014 are – and you have to say in the findings: not so barrier-free at all. These citizens have come in very intensively, they have critically reported to us how they see both the process and the outcome of this process, but during the Commission of Inquiry I did not have the impression that SPÖ and ÖVP are looking for the answers to these questions. Come now That is why you are again, and I must tell you that I have often heard this argument with the billionaire who buys parties – we all know who is meant – from you. Yes, this is a problem, but it is also a problem for democracy as a whole. Many arguments that are mentioned – people need political education, people need to be sufficiently informed, there must be transparency about who is actually behind various projects – do not apply only to direct democracy, which can be put 1 : 1 to parliamentary democracy and thus to elections, and no one here will certainly call for us to abolish elections, right? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That is, everything you put forward here applies to democracy as a whole. I am not at all of the opinion that we should develop direct democracy, because there is political starkness, but because I believe it is fundamental that the sovereign, the citizens – and I am quite clear about this concept, not only the Austrian citizens, but people who live in Austria who pay taxes here, even those who do not pay taxes, people who so to speak in Austria – should also have the opportunity to decide politically. This is a fundamental question of democracy and not a question of political starkness. This has to be met differently, namely, with really well-founded discussions in discussions, far away from the often party-political hack we are giving in to here. My conviction is that direct democracy or the further development of direct democracy would also contribute to this. You have seen this in the context of this unsuccessful popular survey on Wehrmacht – pardon, I correct this promiser – military duty. What I have heard about qualified statements by people who have long been disputing about politics: How should I decide, what is the better variant now? Both were actually bad, I also needed a third variant. There have suddenly been discussions, and politicians have been forced to discuss in depth and not just to give any common places of their own. All of this can be achieved by further development of direct democracy. [[Abg. Kitzmüller: What “Wehrmacht” do you mean?]] The real question next to what you actually learned is what you're afraid of. Now I look very consciously toward SPÖ, and I really don't mean that now. I know you have a long history, which was rightly addressed at the last meeting of the Committee of Inquiry, that you have a long culture and history of skepticism towards direct democratic instruments. We Greens too have had to discuss it very long and intensively, but just the last few weeks have shown us how much Austrians are able to do when official politics, institutional policy, fails. And, Mr President, I would like to say now – Stefan – sometimes it is difficult with the distinction, but I make a very clear difference between the two, at least on this question, you said that we did not agree to the referendum before. Yes, because it is precisely a referendum on a question where we say that this includes the state of emergency. We do not want to vote on, for example, fundamental and human rights. [[Abg. Stefan:... Right to strike! We did not vote on asylum law!]] In other words, the question that we have also discussed about the minority report is: Where are the limits, where do we say, things simply are not negotiable and not agreeable? We have agreed on a minority report, and that is so to speak, I believe, our great achievement, because we, NEOS, Team Stronach, FPÖ and our Greens, are quite different in some questions, including in the field of direct democracy. We have said, however, that we are at least Compromise, we are ready to talk. Unfortunately, I have not observed anything of this willingness to talk in recent months on the part of ÖVP and SPÖ. In a press conference at the end of June, you directed us that you actually blew the project off. Mr Gerstl said at the last meeting that we did not see any evidence that we were getting two thirds somewhere. Yes, but you did not make any offers, nor did you come up with concrete proposals. I'm very excited about how you're going to continue. Your report is rather thin compared to ours. At this point, I would like to stress two people who have worked on this report in particular. Tina Rametsteiner and Dr. Marlies Meyer, who are actually the authors of this report and who have to be mentioned here. Exciting will be what you do with it now. Come now with concrete legislative proposals on which you can negotiate, or hope You insist that everyone forget that we had this survey commission sometime? Then we've given political starringness back to nourishment. They heard this from the eight citizens: They were disappointed that no longer went on. They have invested their time, they have spent a lot, a lot, and have now, as it were, been fed with a result that they say is too little – they have also made an opinion. One of the first points will be: How serious are you with this direct democracy at country level, how does this empowerment look? Make Do you really get it so far that the countries can also go up to the three-stage national legislation? That's our goal, that's our demand, and if you do that and it's designed in a sense that we want, we'll be happy to go with it. But now you have to submit, and that is quite soon, because we no longer have much time to develop our democracy. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e23950	Mrs Musiol, I am mistaken, or would you like to make a motion for a resolution? I haven't called the next speaker yet.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e23966	Then I submit the following joint request from FPÖ, Greens, NEOS and Team Stronach: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e24011	This motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e24933	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Gerstl.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e24955	Thank you, Mr President. Even though you, as President, have certainly made this statement, which has helped my colleague to make the request, I would also like to know it as a sign of willingness to speak further. I don't think you could have given a better sign at all. We are always open here for further discussions, and we regret that there has not been a national legislation in the sense of how we have already made up. But, Mrs Musiol, you know that very well: The talks were such that you said you would make us a proposal as we can do it again, and we have said to you that we have a proposal, but we have now received so many negative opinions from the Federal President, the Constitutional Court, the Administrative Court, tell us in which areas you are willing to change that. [[Abg. Musiol: You didn't say that!]] And, unfortunately, we didn't hear anything. I felt quite honestly that you were simply bound to this very proposal and you no longer had any support in your group, that you should have gone beyond this draft to which we once agreed. Okay, that can happen once, it was once an accident of approval of a government template. I do not want to blame you for that either, I understand, but the fact is that we have not taken a step forward right now. We must also note that we have very different ideas on this matter. We have also noticed it, and it was probably not you alone, but also the Freedom Party, which at that time also showed support. If each party demands other support quarters – which one party would like to have a referendum if only 200 000 people have agreed to the other at 400,000, and the third say, as our proposal was, at 10 percent and 15 percent respectively – then one simply does not come together if no one is willing to take one step in one direction or the other of these quotas. That is the point why this has not been achieved in this area, which I also regret. Nevertheless, I believe that this proposal can also be calmed down and well said that this is a step into the future, because we are now making it possible, Mrs Musiol, to do what you have called for at local and country level. We want to make this possible. We want to make such a constitutional law that gives the countries the power to allow for the communities and the federal states in their area of responsibility popular desire, referendums and veto-ferrants. [[President Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).]] That is a step in the right direction, because you have to say that would also be a point where you could agree. And if we had not yet reached the point I would have liked to have, at the end of a popular desire, the possibility of a popular survey or a referendum in order to reach a national legislation, we have now managed to find a consensus that at the beginning of the legislative process, we should involve people more closely. In the future, therefore, it will not only be the government officials to write a draft law, but before he writes it, he will involve the citizens and will get what they need to solve this problem and how we can make it better. That is to say, the probability that at the end of this legislative process, at the end of which is already the opinion of the citizens, is much greater with our proposal than we had before. I assure you, the participation of people is very important to me. It is sacred to me – I even want to say – because without participation democracy is not to be maintained. And this is the highest good in the Republic: the safeguarding of democracy. It is very important to me that each individual's participation is very important. [[Abg. Darmann: That's why you voted against the referendum!]] That is why we are always ready to talk on these points, and you can be sure that we will bring our proposals in this direction as well.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e25013	In order to make a corrective statement, the honourable Member has the power to do so. Musiol. You are aware of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e25037	Mr Gerstl has claimed that you have asked us to make proposals where we would be prepared to make amendments. This conversation and this offer of yours has never taken place, at least not in this universe; perhaps in your dreams, but that is beyond my knowledge.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e25064	Mr Scherak is speaking on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e25086	The aim of this Committee of Inquiry was not only to develop direct democratic means, but also to discuss what is important around direct democratic means. One essential point is that there are many different ways of co-determination. On the one hand, there is the already mentioned crowdsourcing, which the government parties propose in their majority report. There is civil participation as we had in the Committee of Inquiry itself, and there is the possibility of real direct participation on popular surveys, popular desire and referendums. All these co-determination possibilities have a basic condition, that is transparency, which is comprehensive information so that citizens know what they can at all say about. Accordingly, the optimal result of such a committee of inquiry, which we have here and whose essential part is the further development of direct democratic elements, is that I have, on the one hand, comprehensive transparency and information and I have developed further there, which the citizens need, and on the other hand, really direct co-determination. If you read the majority report of the government parties, they are miles away from the optimal result. They have not managed to formulate concrete improvements – and really concrete improvements – in terms of direct co-determination, nor have you managed to bring about any changes in all these basic conditions of co-determination. The final report of the government parties states that there is a need to abolish the silence of office. That is already in the government programme. We would not have needed the Committee of Inquiry to do this. It says that there should be an objective voting book, there is also a need for Parliament to be strengthened and for Members to be strengthened in their work. You are all sitting here in Parliament now, and you know that we should be strengthened in our work; and that there is an objective voting book in a direct democratic procedure is actually quite a matter of course. We would not have needed the Committee of Inquiry to do this either. They demand – I then found it particularly funny – that, in addition to abolishing the silence of office, the subject “Political Education”. This is also part of the government programme. Request in the final result It is not very much, therefore, when it comes to the measures to create transparency and information, namely, what is already in the government programme. Now we can say great what the government programme says, but that this should be the final result of the survey commission on the level is a little bit. As far as the other situation is concerned, that is, the real direct co-determination, has not gone much further. You know the wish of the people, you have read all the opinions of the citizens who were there. They are quite clearly calling for a compromise which these eight citizens have negotiated, as they have also told us, that there should be a popular survey after a successful popular desire which the Parliament does not match. You know that. If you look at your majority report now, you can see that this is not happening in it either. In other words, you have not introduced any corresponding innovations in both areas. Mr Gerstl, you say that there were so many negative opinions on this original compromise. – In principle, I find that we have already taken part in a committee of inquiry based on a compromise that we are now relinquishing behind. You have not taken one step, you have gone down one step. They say that this is due to the opinions – the Federal President, the Constitutional Court and so on – but I know there were negative opinions that can be explained differently. I believe that it is still possible to achieve clear results. Nevertheless, in the Committee on Inquiry we have heard so many positive comments exactly from this model, so they are at least quantitatively superior, and in qualitative terms I do not want to judge them now. In any case, there have also been very, very many positive opinions. The result of your majority report is now expected to be this country empowerment. I have already said in the Committee on Democracy that I do not necessarily consider this to be a great proof of trust for the people, but it was even more beautiful what Professor Öhlinger said. After all, he said: What then should we vote on in the countries? For example, about building law? These are essentially technical rules which probably do not necessarily fit directly into democracy. One could vote on basic traffic law, which is 90 percent of EU law. We could vote on the law of hospitals, which, as you know, is federal law and only implementing legislation in the countries. People could vote on fishing law and dance school law. He ended with the words: They hardly find a topic at national level that really moves the population. – This is what Professor Öhlinger said. [[Abg. Wittmann:... Jugendschutzgesetz!]] Mr Wittmann, if you are quoting the vote on the Youth Protection Act in the federal states as the great success of this committee of inquiry, I am sorry. That's what I'm Your opinion, it's not mine. It can't be. I am already of the opinion that the federal states should have these possibilities, I also believe that crowdsourcing should be possible, but I think as a final result for this committee of inquiry that is really very, very little. What happened in the final effect with this experiment is that you discussed in an survey committee how to further develop co-determination. You have invited citizens and have discussed with them how to better involve citizens. The result was that you've come to believe that you don't really like it, that they're there and that maybe you shouldn't let that happen every time. I personally regret that. Mr Petz said he was shocked in the Committee on Inquiry. It's more likely to happen.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e25124	I call Mr Cap. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e25146	Of course, the effort was made when we negotiated too third at the time, that this is not only the basis of a committee of inquiry, but that it will eventually be further developed and decided. I would like to thank you for the really good discussion climate that we had. It was very, very interesting what the various experts had to bring in, it was also a good idea that we had these eight citizens in it. There have also been real discussion processes, so in principle I see this very positively. I would not judge it as it has now been done by individuals, that it is almost nothing that has come out of it, but it may even be very, very much. But I only want to address a few points of the previous speakers. Mr Stefan, in his speech on the subject of thought, then said: real legislation. – What does that mean? Does that mean that we are making an incorrect legislation here? – So this was a choice of words that you should think about and stop using next time, because there are the representative democratic institutions that are democratically legitimate. As we know, with regard to the National Council, it is the majority of the Austrian population, the electorate who takes part in this task. The parties start with programmes and try to implement them here, decide – and then again the voters and voters decide whether this has succeeded well, whether it is useful and so on. Accordingly, the majority ratios are shifted or not. I think that this is once a very positive establishment. Many have fought here – and we have fought in particular in the context of our history – for these representative democratic institutions to exist. That is why we need to deal with this very responsibly. There is an essential point, and that is the question of transparency or the time when decision-making processes are initiated. In this point, very many things are included: I wouldn't underestimate crowdsourcing. The timely involvement of a government – the parliamentary plans. [[Abg. Brosz: The Parliament plans have you outstretched!]] The involvement before a law becomes a law at all. Another treatment of popular desires in Parliament. The creation of the public in a media-dominated democracy has a value that – if it really becomes practice – cannot be estimated to be high enough. I know. The expectation was another one, but I think that if you really deal wisely with it, and if you really use it rationally, then I see a great perspective and believe that many things that we want to achieve in more democracy are also possible. Look, we have to be honest. The pressure in the public was not a limitless one. The popular desire had 68 000 signatures – that was not very much. There were opinions that were positive. However, there have been significant, weighty opinions, which have already been quoted, which have had real concerns about the draft which I and my colleague, Head and colleague, Mr Musiol, have put in place as a basis for this work, and this has, of course, already had a certain influence on the work. A little bit we've been thinking about what would have given any application to these – I say now – rather automatic direct democratic elements. In this respect, the first contradictions and problem areas have really developed in the discussions, where at the end of the day the accusation came: Well, you don't mean that seriously, because that, that, that's all excluded! I think we should look forward. That's not one thing, but these are many steps in the right direction, you're supposed to fill it with life and really implement it. However, I would not go as far as Mr Gerstl, who said it was “holy” to him. The term holy which you used there may not be a very happy term in the state of internal Church democracy. But this is another discussion that we can hold at another time.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e25201	Mr Hagen. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e25223	Mr President. High house! Yes, direct democracy is an hour's commandment, and I believe that it is important, especially in the present time, in which political starkness is very great, to let people and citizens decide more directly. In my opinion, Switzerland is a good example of this. As a Vorarlberger you will of course get directly in the border region, how there the people can really decide on important things. In my opinion, this is a good approach. I also personally carried this out in my community twice with a referendum and once with a popular survey. We have all won these votes at home. – The citizens have decided. Mr Wittmann! You know, I appreciate you very much, but your statement has come up a little bit. Who protects the majority from the minority? Excuse me, not to be angry, but if the majority had not decided there, in my community the local core would be destroyed, the motorway customs office would not have any reuse as we have planned, and we would have a vice-bourgeois master with a huge salary that would not be granted to her. These were three referendums we have enforced. The citizens have become persuasive. They didn't want that, and that's why we now have a beautiful village center and soon a motorway stop in a place where everything is now broken. I think that was a good decision. The Stronach team is for more citizen participation anyway. You know our programme and the electoral system that we want to change: For the National Council of 150 Members, of which 100 can be proposed directly by the parties, which can then be elected, and 50 representatives – directly elected from among the people – who do not belong to a party. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Cap.]] I believe that this would be an important approach to greater citizenship. Frank Stronach is of course quite right in this regard when he attacks it and says: There must be more citizen participation in the house so that we can have more democracy here. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Abg. Wittmann: Is it democratic to be proposed by Frank?]] I think you can only sign that. [[Abg. Wittmann: Is it democratic if the Frank proposes to you?]] [[Abg. Cap: Is Frank a democrat?]] As an example, I would like to say one more thing to you. We now have the Vienna election in front of the door. They all know that we have supported a platform for more direct democracy with our signatures so that it can be run. That means we want more freedom of choice. We have supported this platform and given the signatures so that it can run for more direct democracy to come to Vienna City Hall. I think that would be necessary. That would be a sign, and that is why we have also done these signatures. This is a real step towards a democratic decision in Vienna, so that this party-proportion we now have can no longer be taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e25317	Next speaker: Mr El Habbassi. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e25338	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! If you somehow want to comment on the outcome of the Committee of Inquiry, the question arises: Should we now choose a somewhat pessimistic approach or perhaps an optimistic approach? After I think... – Yes, a more realistic is definitely good. [[Abg. Brosz: A realistic one!]] I will try to remain realistic-optimistic, because pessimism has already been sufficiently sprayed today. Of course, we would all have wanted us to reach an agreement. I think realistically you can say quite clearly: Unfortunately, the notions of direct democracy, of the involvement of citizens, were simply too far apart, as if there could be an agreement here. Nevertheless, I believe that we have learned a lot from this committee of inquiry. This starts with the fact that we had something like a Twitter wall here in plenary for the first time – a public that participates in the debate about a live stream, about the possibility of discussion in social media. For the first time, we have integrated citizens into a random system and have given us the opportunity to reflect a little. They have explained to us their perception, which, by the way, also share many citizens from outside, and sometimes put their fingers in the open wounds and showed why perhaps many people are frustrated, why perhaps many people are not always completely satisfied with our present representative democratic system, which I consider to be quite reasonable. When I listened to the people and also to the experts, one thing remained for me: If I choose parties that have a program, politicians who say something but then have no influence on whether these things are implemented if government programmes are not necessarily binding on some actors here, then frustration arises. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Katzian.]] The same frustration arises among the people who have worked here, and have expected that there is a result. They may not have imagined the present in the way. Nevertheless: At the end of the day, we may have a profit from this committee of inquiry. Instead of reaching an agreement that makes a very scary instrument, we have now opened up and have been thinking about many things and have made a recommendation for real change. I would like to draw up two points on this: Transparency and freedom of information. Democracy – whether representative or directly – lives on the fact that information is available. This is not only so far that one knows what the government is up to, but also so far that one has information about how, for example, a budget is managed, for which money is spent, which contracts exist, which have been negotiated. We can now discuss all of these things on the basis of these recommendations. I would like to see, at the end of this legislative period, that we also create facts in this regard and finally get through to something like the Information Freedom Act and more transparency, for which we have been fighting for a long time by the Young ÖVP. I think that an experiment by Finns to involve citizens in the legislative process at the very beginning is very exciting. I would like us to imitate the Finns and start an experiment in Austria, showing that we involve citizens from the outset in problems that affect them in fact and on a daily basis, attracting them as experts, instead of confronting them with a final proposal, and then allowing them to comment on it by experts. I would like to have the citizens involved and involved in the opportunities we have through digitization, the Internet, crowdsourcing. We can thus show that democracy is much more learning-loving, more positive and, above all, more prepared to take a step into the future, into a modern Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e25384	Next speaker is Mrs Steger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e25405	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP! If you start to launch a reform package in Austria, this is equivalent to a first-class funeral. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Call the SPÖ:Na super!]] They have once again proved themselves to be the greatest administrator of the standstill. It will be a committee of inquiry to expand direct democracy – and that is why it was actually about direct democracy in this committee of inquiry! ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... A giant show will be held. There's a press conference. There are eight meetings where all possible specialists are invited where lawyers come, journalists, representatives of the federal states, representatives from the countries, there is an extensive selection procedure, so that for the first time eight citizens can also discuss, so that citizens' participation is lived in this survey for the first time, once plausibly. Everything seems always with the thought in the back of the head to turn the whole thing off in the end. By the way, the citizens, too, were disappointed about this, because they – Mr El Habbassi, you are right – were disappointed about it! Then there is frustration, there has been disappointment, because if a committee of inquiry, in which citizens are involved, are actively involved for the first time, in which 99 percent of those present opt for more citizens' participation, at the end of the day does not make any substantial progress in the participation of citizens, then that is more than absurd. [[Accompaniment with the FPÖ and the Abg. Musiol.]] Since September 2014, we have been together once a month and have discussed the various aspects of direct democracy. Of course, we have also discussed a few minor issues, how to improve parliamentary working methods, keyword: Crowdsourcing or review procedures. There are certainly a few things to do. What did you do? – You have taken these secondary issues, those that hurt least when you translate them, packed them into a triangular majority report and presented them as a result. That was certainly not the point of this committee of inquiry. While the opposition parties have dealt seriously and in terms of content with the subject in order to enable genuine citizenship at the federal level in the sense of the Austrian people – that is, a three-stage popular initiative with a final popular vote for us, that, if Parliament is not determined in the sense of the popular initiative, then this referendum is also mandatory, with lower obstacles and with veto votes – you were only interested by SPÖ and ÖVP to play on time and to find arguments against the expansion of direct democracy. You have made this Enquete Commission the symbol of the mogel packs, with which you unfortunately work here every day. However, there were hardly any arguments against the expansion of direct democracy in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. What alleged concerns have I heard from you? – Austria is not supposed to be mature yet. I wonder, How do you measure maturity? I say Austria is ripe. The only ones who seem not to be ready for it are you from the SPÖ and the ÖVP. [[Accompaniment with the FPÖ and the Abg. Musiol.]] What else did you suggest? – Who protects the minorities in Parliament? Who makes sure in Parliament that all minorities are always protected? Of course, the same fundamental rights and principles apply as in the parliamentary legislative process. Do not pretend that there is no such thing as direct democracy! A particularly absurd argument was put forward by Mr Wittmann at the last meeting. I really had to find out with amazement that you brought this again this time: California has direct democracy and is therefore advocating! – Yes, right, and Switzerland is also very close to bankruptcy, because it has direct democracy, which is very narrow! [[Abg. Wittmann:... vote on everything...!]] [[Abg. Heinzl: In Carinthia you have democracy...!]] What else did you say? – The population is too easy to influence. – Right, and the MEPs are completely immune to any kind of influence of media, power, businesses and organizations. All the arguments you put forward here are equally for democracy and also for elections, and you do not want to explain to me that you want to abolish the elections or democracy – I hardly imagine that! Be so honest and tell us honestly why you do not want to implement direct democracy in Austria! – Because You know very well that your decisions out there, in the populace, have not been majority-able for a long time. This is the case in the case of asylum, which is true in the case of immigration, and so is the case with the EU. They try by all means to prevent direct democracy in order to cling to power – and they ignore the fact that this will lead to your losing power in the next election. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Your task as a Member of Parliament is to implement what the people want. [[Abg. Heinzl: Only at Orbán it's better, isn't it?]] What, do you think, are you capable of implementing what the people want better than the people themselves on the path of direct democracy? We from the FPÖ even go a step further than other parties: We want the population to be able to vote on all that Parliament can do. There is no mention at all that one wants to exchange this with the other. No, both exist in Switzerland, and only a small fraction is determined directly democratically. Instead of looking for and finding concerns, you should have focused on finding solutions. But that you lack any solution expertise, you have been able to observe very well in the last weeks and months – keyword: Asylum. That's where you went towards Germany, but you'd rather go straight to Switzerland, and that's both issues. Switzerland has been proving for years that parliamentary democracy, combined with direct democracy, can work excellently; that this does not mean a weakening of Parliament, but a strengthening. It means greater interest and greater information, much less dissatisfaction and political dissatisfaction, and above all it means a better and failed policy. Under the rule, your persistence is always greater than any idea of reform. But don't worry: Direct democracy will be implemented, which is just one question of the next election date.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e25536	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e25557	Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Steger, not everything that does not meet your expectations, is a bad result. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I think we have worked very serious in the Committee of Inquiry and each from its point of view, from their point of view, we have accordingly balanced the arguments that have come from the experts there. Mrs Steger, there is a very substantial difference between parliamentary democracy and the dynamics that can develop direct democratic instruments, namely that the majority of the parties here in the house – but not all! – not acting populistly and taking the responsibility to take unpopular steps even if they are socially important, even if they are only important for certain smaller groups. I hardly want to rule out anyone in this house. However, you and your party are at the moment on a completely different course, and this is an essential difference between parliamentary democracy and direct democratic instruments. In this context, our concerns, also expressed by Mr Wittmann, could not be undermined in the expert representations and also in the discussions in the Committee on Inquiry. [[Abg. Pah!]] I should also like to briefly sum up our concerns and analyses: Against the background of the experience we have made in recent years, that people who have a lot of money simply buy themselves parties, we did not want to also make the possibility to buy the relevant laws. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haven't you seen him?]] That is, I think, a very serious concern, which is not so easy to depress. The protection of the minority from the majority is also essential. The colleague, Mr Musiol, asked earlier: What is the difference to the elections, and there must be limits in the basic values here? That's what I'm saying: I understand, it's just not enough for me. As far as the basic values are concerned, of course, this is clear, but protection must go beyond the basic values. For example, some basic social protection in our country is not a fundamental value, but it is absolutely a safeguard value. In this regard, a dynamic can be developed in a voting situation, based on media interests, based on the populist appearance of a certain political force, where, at once, measures important for the security of a part of the population will be swept away from today to tomorrow – and I do not, of course, assume that this is your interest. So: It was important discussions, we held them very seriously. We will continue to discuss. Important measures will be taken, and of course we will continue to discuss with you all.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e25615	The next item is Mr Brosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e25636	Mr President. It has been rightly discussed relatively in detail about direct democracy; My colleague, Musiol, said everything I could say. There has been a second area, which has generally been called a strengthening of democracy. And as one concludes in such a report, if one is completely disposed of one area, one has to think about it so that it does not look quite embarrassing to write things into the other area that offer a certain perspective. I would like to say this right now, and we have already started in the Presidency, where there has been a finding that we already want to talk about what is contained in the majority report in the next Committee on the Rules of Procedure. That means, for all those who believe now, it's taken away: It's not that easy, we're going to stay on it. There are things that are quite positive. Crowdsourcing has been addressed. In the report one reads that crowdsourcing is good anyway and should be done, it just doesn't stand inside who should do it. At least it would have been interesting if Parliament were to do what resources it is going to do with, which is missing in the report. In my view, there is a long-standing point that would bring about a significant improvement in the legislative process: In fact, if genuine review procedures are opened first, not only for those we formally invite, but also for citizens, and secondly, if the results of this review procedure are also presented. In fact, it is inconceivable that we now have laws where there are a hundred opinions – you can read it in every single one, there is no summary – and there is no obligation to explain how the request for amendment has been dealt with so far. This is also the case in which changes must be justified. If this were to happen, it would be a clear advantage not only for the House but also for the people, because legislative drafts could therefore be better assessed. Members are to be strengthened by the fact that there is, among other things, direct access to the legal and legislative services. That is to say, no longer the President must decide, as for example in the Committee of Inquiry, that the Parliamentary Directorate is also involved in a legislative process, but, if I take it seriously, that there are direct possibilities – from me only one quota from the clubs, from the Members – to also accept advice and service from experts there. I would like to thank you very much for the fact that this is inside. Now you can only ask the question: How serious is that? There are already some concerns, because funding: zero. On the contrary: They have written that the financing of Members' parliamentary work should be strengthened. One can also discuss this, but not by saying that democracy costs something, but by a retransformation. And a redeployment can only mean that it remains the same in total, but for the performance of the legal and legislative service, for the processing of legislative drafts is then less money. If that's the solution, it's just not possible to do what you wrote. There will be a need to acknowledge that certain things also need to be financed. Some things then drift into a certain degree of currency. I don't know now whether it was sloppy or whatever that happened when you read exactly and you know the Rules of Procedure a little bit, you're going to be loud: They seriously write that the public committees should be streamed live. - That sounds great. If you know what committees are taking place publicly, it's less great, because there are no public committees in the house. There is one reason to make committees public, and this is true of reports that are being completed. That is to say, they are the reports, for the spectators at home, who are so uninteresting that no one thinks they should come to the plenary session – that is, a few things are already inside – and they can then be reported live. However, the Committee of Inquiry must not be reported live, which might be interesting. By the way: Nor should the debate on popular desire in the Committee be streamed live, because the debate on popular desire is not a public committee. [[Abg. Wittmann: This is polemic!]] – This is not polemics, that is reality, Peter Wittmann! This really is my mind now, every time a call comes that is unqualified. The last time it's called, the public prosecutor's reports are important. Yes, they are important, but they are in non-public committees; no single Court of Auditors report is publicly negotiated here. Let's not talk about polemics! Let us talk about preventing transparency in this House, which it has been operating for decades and a long time! That's where I'm gonna be great! [[Congratulation with greens and NEOS.]] And then there is the proposal – which I think is particularly great as chairman of the Sports Committee – that the committee members and representatives should report in an objective manner, i.e. not on their own opinions, on what is happening in the Committee, four times a year in the constituencies. So, objectively, this looks like this at the Sports Committee: If it goes well, it takes place twice a year, i.e., four times I can drive to the districts twice and say that we have not had a committee, because I can only tell objectively what was, I cannot express opinions. At other times, I can tell you about what committee proposals have been postponed, because this is the reality in the Sports Committee that we have opposition requests that are postponed. So if you make such proposals, I feel a little bit played, honestly, because that can't be serious, because it's about any constituency payments that people can drive around, but that doesn't have anything to do with the involvement of the population. I have mentioned positive things, we will take this seriously, we will continue to do so, but we will measure how it will be implemented. And if there is a desire, report decided, ad acta: You can say that already, there won't be. We will understand these points, which you have written in the report, both in the Bureau and in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, and we will demand that what is decided by a majority in this House will be implemented in any way.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e25684	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Steinacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e25705	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! [[Abg. Darmann: There's not much left!]] “Democracy is not running, but it is more secure.” – Johann Wolfgang von Goethe said that. And he is right because the further development of democracy must be carefully reviewed. This means that the proposals made and discussed in the Committee of Inquiry, which have then resulted in recommendations, will ultimately have to meet our rule of law requirements. Much has already been said about the automatic poll and referendum. I can only say: Yes, there were, of course, positive opinions, but, ladies and gentlemen, concerns of the Supreme Courts, the President's Office, the Constitutional Service of the Federal Chancellor's Office on the text of the application, which is available, cannot simply be swept away from the table. That is why, I believe, it makes no sense and we must not decide laws where a failure in the rule of law is pre-programmed in the past. On the recommendations, I say: It's a shame you don't carry them in broad front, because I'm saying one thing: Each of these recommendations supports the development of democracy in Austria, which is not running but is more secure. The participation of citizens at local level, and the countries, for us, are of course the subject of the EIA, and we will implement it. Mr Musiol spoke about political stardom: Yeah, that's where it's to fight, of course. But the essential thing is that there is sufficient information for citizens at first, and all the recommendations that are contained in the Commission's final report on this subject are essential and important. A new school module on political education: You cannot be opposed to transparent, medial monitoring of parliamentary processes, very important, early information on legislative projects. [[Abg. Musiol: We have been demanding this for years!]] All of this is an extended objective information that is good and right. Then, to political participation, also mentioned, the crowdsourcing, platforms, involvement in the review process, more intensive employment with popular desires, which also enhances direct democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, Austria was established as a representative republic with direct democratic elements. We are elected politicians, we also have responsibility as managers of this republic. Mrs Steger, before that, I cannot and do not want to push myself, and many of us do not, because we have this responsibility to make decisions, and we also have to negotiate, discuss, bring to the citizens and explain the relevant laws. That is also an important part of our task. In addition, there is the involvement of citizens through the direct democratic elements and they are now being expanded. And please, you can't go there, I'm really wondering where you're standing. We from ÖVP support the development of democracy and the implementation of the recommendations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e25758	The next and for the first time the last one is speaking in this debate, Mr Dr. Wier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e25779	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry has worked properly, the impact of paper, work reports, working protocols that have been drawn up in more than a year, demonstrates the intensity of the work. The final report is, of course, more modest, is shorter, but that is the basis that should be implemented relatively quickly. All in all, however, I believe that you can work well in the future with the work here. I want to deal with a key area, which is information and education. I believe that information and education are an essential basis for participation in democracy. A project is already on track, it has been set up with a basic decree from the Ministry of Education, on the principle of political education at schools, something where we are finally getting to do so. However, we have not only decided to do so, but the Committee on Inquiry has also come up with a concrete proposal to involve those young people who are no longer in a school. That is to say, with the means of adult education, by extra-school methods, to reach those 15 to 20-year-olds whom we would not reach with the subject of political education in school. Secondly, Democracy in municipalities and federal states. I believe that we have taken a big step further, with a change in the federal constitution, we will create the basis so that the municipalities and the federal states can shape the framework conditions in such a way that the people in the federal state, in the municipality, can ideally decide. I am particularly concerned about accessibility. Accessibility, as has already been mentioned, in the sense of avoiding a complicated computer with passwords or texts in official Chinese. As a Social Democratic, I do not want elite democracy, but a low level of access to direct democracy in municipalities and federal states. To the model Direct Democracy in Switzerland: It's going to be a little absoluted. I would like to give an example of the motto that it is not all gold that shines: for example, the referendum on the law on compulsory unemployment. insurance. The facts: With 35.5% of the population, almost 53.4% voted with Yes, i.e. 18.9% of the population. They have decided on cuts, these 18.9% of the population have opted for more wage deductions despite the reduction in performance. If you think it is ideal for such essential social decisions – in the case of restrictions – to be made, okay. I don't think that's all right! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I am referring to the Austrian path to the development of parliamentarianism and democracy. I think it is good that eight citizens have been released – this has been a new experience in working here in Parliament, with the citizens who have been released – and I would like to say thank you for the efforts of Parliament's Directorate. The report and the overall basis in these papers are a good basis for developing democracy in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e25837	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request by the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry to take note of this report, together with Appendices A to F, in 791 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Musiol, Mag. Stefan, Dr. Scherak, Ing. Dietrich, colleagues on the implementation of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection 'Strengthening democracy'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[19:44:46]] 4. Point Report of the Transport Committee on the Government Template (775 e.g._Other Organiser The Federal Act amending the road transport regulations in 1960 (27. StVO-Novelle) (786 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e25895	We're on the 4th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Heinzl came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e25922	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! He's disabled who's going to be disabled. – This old wisdom can confirm all people who have to do with disabled people in their daily work and family life. Situations, so-called normal people, so people without disabilities, do not even notice, often cause very serious problems for people with special needs. With the road transport regulation novelle to be decided today, some of these problems, I believe, can be solved. The first enormous improvement concerns people who are restricted in their mobility. You know, ladies and gentlemen, especially in cities, it is often the case that the specialists or therapy facilities are central to pedestrians. ed. On the one hand, this makes sense mainly because of the good accessibility with public authorities, on the other hand, this situation is often a real challenge for people with disabilities. And in order to make it easier for these disabled people to access the doctors, in the future owners of an §-29 ID can access the pedestrian zone and park there, of course, if they need to go to a doctor or to a treatment facility. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! But there will also be two important improvements for some 300,000 people with visual impairment in Austria. First: Keeping and parking on guidelines is explicitly prohibited in favour of people with visual impairment. This ban, of course, also includes the fact that no bicycles may be placed on the corresponding markings, a problem which has unfortunately arisen over and over again in recent times. Secondly, Traffic signs mounted at the head of the road can become a danger for people with visual impairment, so it is welcome that new or replaced road signs will have to be installed at a height of at least 2.2 metres in the future. In addition to these improvements for people with disabilities, the Road Traffic Regulation Novelle also facilitates the domestic economy. The ban on advertising in industrial areas, at sports sites or at the airport is void. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! With today's STVO-Novelle, a whole package of improvements can be implemented for people with disabilities. I would like to thank all those who have contributed to the development of this package, especially our Federal Minister Alois Stöger. I think that the daily lives of 345,000 people can be made much easier. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e25968	The next item is the speech by Mr Ottenschlager. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e25989	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I will also report on this 27th anniversary. Novelle of road traffic regulations. Mr Heinzl has already done so, there are some, from our point of view, gratifying regulations, especially with regard to accessibility, which we want to decide here, with the aim of removing the difficulties for people with disabilities, especially with visual impairments. In addition, there will also be an administrative simplification for the municipalities, namely that the road signs must be reviewed every five years instead of every two years – a simplification for our communities. Furthermore, § 84 contains a legal clarification in the application of advertising on the edge of the road. As an example, I would like to point out that there is not only one sports club but several in Austria. In particular, it should be noted Football pitches so far have an uncertain location to what extent it is permitted or not permitted to place advertising signs on the outskirts of the street. This is particularly important for these sports clubs, and here there is a clarification that what has been allowed within the area so far is also allowed on the outskirts – of course, taking into account road safety and the spatial and construction regulations. However, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to take this opportunity to thank me, Mr Federal Minister, for having been with us in transport policy. In the Committee on Transport, we are looking for mutual collaboration and here at the federal level we do not play out the individual road users against each other. I am also saying this because elections are about to take place in Vienna. What happened yesterday at the Ringstraßensperre in Vienna can only be called a shock to the drivers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The ring became 74 this year. And I just happened to be in a business in the 1st century. District. The business owner has recognized me, packed me, and really complained that, when these blocks are present, they always have massive losses. It is certainly not the only one, and we should also take this into account – especially in the economic situation we now have – except that the congestion for the environment cannot be good either. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm a motorist, I'm a pedestrian, I'm a cyclist, I'm on the tram, and I'm guessing – I repeat that – that we're here at the federal level trying to keep a match of all road users as the top premise. It is wrong to put transport policy only on one pillar. That's what you're going to fail with. I think it's all right if you try to create incentives to give up on the car, but you can't do that with brachial force, but you can do that with positive incentives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e26046	Next speaker: Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e26068	Mr President. Federal Minister! This little but not uninteresting 27. Novelle of the road transport system has a few points that are worth discussing and getting closer to being illuminated. First of all, these are the points that affect disabled people. Mr Heinzl has already done so in detail. It is important and good, regardless of whether it concerns the creditors according to § 29b or whether it concerns blind people. It is a clear and clear improvement. The second point is the special transport accompanying vehicles, which is also not uninteresting, because they can now pass over ground markings, for example, and there are some other improvements for them. Mr Federal Minister, I think we have not yet reached the end of the improvements in the area of accompanying vehicles. Some time ago I had a conversation with the popular lawyer Fichtenbauer, while some of these transport companions complained of her suffering, and there was no one – that was the remarkable – “failure” – under quotation marks – of the executive. It was simply legislative flaws; that is, they intercepted penalties for laws that were not yet really proper. The authority that they had received their criminal mandates was quite given, but the question was, it was wise that they had received the mandates. Now we are coming to the third point – and in this case we have also sought a separate vote for the second reading – namely the point with the billboards. On the one hand, it is good that we have created clarity in the advertising boards – that is one thing – but if at the same time we note with the Committee that one can assume that a reduction in speed is also required when these advertising areas are granted, then this will be exciting on the county headquarters and wherever they are treated. If you then have a climate-aware and auto-enemy speaker, then the theoretically only need to wait until it has corresponding advertising areas, and then he can finally extend the speed limits of the local area to all “infinity” – under quotation marks. Whether we really want to do this, whether we really want to limit the drivers we milk every day with the money, even at speed, I put it at home once. Otherwise, this novelle is good, perhaps you can rethink the point with the billboards at speed and clean it again in one of the next novels. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e26110	Next item is the report by Mr Willi. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e26131	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The road traffic regulations novelles belong to parliamentary everyday life – about like brushing teeth. Every few years there are one to two novels, so now we're at 27. Of course, there are things inside that make sense, so we will generally agree with this novel, because it is primarily about improving people with disabilities. I am concerned only by the fact that an important law, which concerns all road users, is being changed every year, because the transport of innovations to the legal subjects must always take place. So if we have to do the driver's license test today, I'd say we'd almost all fall through because we don't know anymore. - So that's delicate. But now I am going to look at the points that we see critically. – The good has already been emphasized. I find the following critical: If, in order to ensure that our disabled people, especially those with disabilities, and above all the large, do not cut their pears, because a road map is too deep, one says that one goes with the light height at 2,20 meters, then that is correct; but that only applies to the new panels. So there is no obligation to check whether the other panels are high enough. So it will take a long time for all panels to be at a light height of 2,20 meters. The second is: Has You think we have too little advertising in Austria? – § 84, which is changed, is an advertising section. Today, we have the requirement that we should only advertise in the local area, with the exception of advertising that serves road safety. These are these large posters, which, for example, invite motorcyclists to think about their guardian angel and to drive slower. This is allowed outside the area, not anything else. Now there was the occasion of a sports stadium in the Zillertal outside the area. There was an advertising on it, which was not possible, and that was what you wanted to clean up. But instead of doing something simple for this occasion, it is said that you are allowed to advertise when outside the area is a site-like structure. What will be the result? – Lands, the land, but still unbuilt – of which there are enough – are wonderful to earn money by allowing billboards to be placed there. I already see the woman mayor confronted with requests that one should be able to advertise in local structures outside her community – and I don't want to! I want a beautiful landscape where I don't have to keep looking at billboards. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Auer and Mr Pirklhuber.]] We do not want these paragraphs and we have also called for a separate vote. Finally, Mr Minister, I would like to ask you that not every year we should again make a circlingly, but once again a really clever road traffic regulation novelle, into which we can properly pack everything in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e26192	Next speaker: Mr Pock. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e26213	Mr President. Estimated Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! I'd like to make a move, too, in the 27th century. Road transport regulation-Novelle. I would like to mention one or two points, which is why we are important and why our approval is given. The first point raised several times is the facilitation in various areas for people with disabilities. That is necessary, that was even overdue for a long time, and this is very supportive. The second point that applies to the communities is the reduction of red tape, which means that in the future, not all two things need to be reviewed, but only every five years. That too is what our support is. Where have we seen critical points? What have we discussed in the Committee for a very long time? Mr. Georg Willivon also referred to the Greens; it was about poster advertising, which should also be allowed in future in local areas. My argument is less appealing to the beautiful nature – since I would have great confidence in the communities that one agrees here – my argument is much more concerned with the impact on the communities and the surroundings of the communities. We have often discussed – more rarely in the Committee on Transport than in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection – that the separation is a major problem in Austria. As a result of this separation, we have higher operating costs in the municipalities, which in turn also leads to lower budgets for citizens. What's the point behind that? – Of course, there is a higher motivation to also relocate areas, and there is a higher motivation, land and commercial ground to use in addition elsewhere, namely not in the very sense of the matter. That's what we criticized. But there was no movement on us here, no proposal for improvement. On the other hand, as mentioned by the liberals, this leads to a reduction in speed; this is also to be questioned whether we really want it. A second point I would have expected from the Greens, which has not yet been mentioned, is that we have left the cyclists outside in the existing novelle. There were some ways to make corrections here, knowing well that there are conflicts between drivers and cyclists. I am now submitting the following request and would like to advertise your consent: [[Quoted print version removed]] I ask for your consent. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e26309	The amendment is sufficiently supported, properly introduced and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e26423	Mr Stöger spoke on a point of view. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e26444	Mr President. High house! I say it again and again and would like to mention it again today: Mobility is the external form of freedom for people. When we get the 27th. Let us say that we also support people with disabilities who have restricted conditions to be mobile in public space. That is why we are continuing to develop road traffic regulations. I think it is important to adapt the road traffic regulations to changes or conditions. We've been out there for a long time. I have also said the following in the Committee, and I say it here again consciously: We have ensured that we will have greater legal certainty in relation to billboards. The district authorities are familiar with local conditions, which must be decided. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] I think it's not just in the area, because the mayors would otherwise be under pressure to expand the area. The issue is that the district authorities can take decisions here in accordance with local conditions. Thirdly, I am always ready when we have regulations that do not comply with the practice that we are discussing – for example, in the case of special transports. We have made a contribution here to making legal practices more effective and thus more legal certainty. Overall, it is about adapting to the mobility of people. That's what we're doing with this law. – Thank you for your approval.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e26483	The next item is Mrs Hakel. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e26505	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, we have heard it a few times today, and in the last Committee on Transport, it was a special point when it came to the debate on road traffic regulations that it was necessary to create legal certainty for road users when they are on the road with the ID card. This is the story of the fact that you can also drive a pedestrian zone by car if there are doctor's practices, therapy centres, ambulatorys or Ähnli- Ches are located. So this will be facilitated in the future. There is now also a clear regulation on this point. In the event that vehicles and objects block traffic signs, there has been no clear handling of punishment or removal, and this is now being changed and these ambiguities are eliminated. And, of course, there is a clear relief for people with visual impairment. However, I would like to respond to Mr Pock's request that bicycles can be driven against the direction of the road in the future in speed 30 zones. To this end, I would like to say: We are going to reject that, for one reason, that tempo 30 zones are not simply determined by about, but already there is a great danger. For example, it is about facilitating the way for schoolchildren or the like; it is already very dangerous there. If you still allow automatically to pass through bicycles in all tempo 30 zones, then it is simply too dangerous. That is why we will not agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e26544	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Aubauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e26565	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! It is hardly understandable for us here in the hall how difficult it is for people with disabilities in everyday life. This meeting room is also not accessible, and we are looking forward to the conversion, Mr President. I would like to add another aspect which has not yet been illuminated. We are all getting older, society is getting older; more attention is being paid to this in all areas of life – of course also in transport life. That is why we have set ourselves the goal of removing difficulties for people with disabilities. Mr Minister, thank you: They have called mobility a great freedom. Yes, for us mobility means a very high good. It means independence; social contacts become easier – especially for our seniors – and everyday life becomes easier. You are more mobile – from shopping to important medical visits. Here is the essential relief – we have heard it several times – that you can also complete medical visits in pedestrian zones and park in pedestrian zones. This may sound like a detail to some of you, but it is very, very important for our seniors who are not so good on foot. So there are substantial reliefs here. For us, it is also clear that not all 44,500 inhabitants of a disability card under the road traffic regulations will now live near a pedestrian zone, but every single person we can help is already a profit for us. I come to the 300 000 people with visual impairment for whom there are reliefs. Mr Willi, of course you are right; the sooner, the better. That's where we're all with you. We also want road signs that cannot be found and injured, but of course we also have to see the area of the municipalities and the mayor. Here's a possible way, and I think that's a feasible way for all of us. It's going in the right direction. Ladies and gentlemen! Facilitations for people with disabilities should apply at all levels. In this sense, I am very grateful to you – including the valued opposition – that we also place a common sign here. We want to go on take greater account of these people and, as far as possible, together. – Thank you all.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e26611	The next item is the report by Mr Ing. Schellenbacher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e26632	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Appreciate High House! Ladies and gentlemen! I can do with this 27. StVO-Novelle only confirms that it is the right step in the right direction, because it helps people who need this help most. It is mobility that brings quality of life, and all the benefits for those persons who benefit from § 29b really help. However, as a transport engineer, I would also like to have constructive criticism. And I believe that this novelle could have repaired a lot more. I would like to add § 48 para. 5 and § 48 para. 1a of the STVO. There's a regulation on which traffic signs we're talking about. We are talking about static traffic signs, we are talking about optical, fiber optic traffic signs and we are talking about the elements of LED technology, i.e. electronic elements. In § 48 para. 5 the minimum altitudes for the passage before tunnel portals are regulated. From my point of view, we should have fixed this: This paragraph states that the road signs must not be mounted above 5,50 m, except if this is an exception or if these traffic signs are illuminated. But to § 48 para. 1a: An optical fiber optic or LED traffic sign is not illuminated, it is self-lighting. I wonder if there is any legal certainty at all that they are properly announced, so that even at reduced maximum speeds, where IG air or VBA facilities are punished, there is legal certainty. – This is my first criticism. The second criticism concerns – also referred to by colleague Willi – this section 84 para. 5, where outside advertising was previously regulated: only in the local area, exclusively with special use contracts with road operators, with construction negotiations, with transport negotiation. Although I am in favour of the advertising industry, because it revives the economy, I believe that it may be a quick shot to simply use the land as a criterion outside of the local territory, and to set something in motion, so to speak, without prejudice to the permitted maximum speed. This should be considered again, because I think there are better solutions. Transport areas should also be involved. In any case, it is not just perhaps not nice, Mr Willi, but at least in terms of traffic and therefore a safety aspect. That is why I would ask you to think about it again. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e26669	Mr Keck spoke as the next and, for the first time, last speaker in this debate. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e26691	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! You can't say it often enough: ==References== Novelle of the road transport system has set in motion a number of innovations, which, in particular, mean improvements for people with disabilities. The priority is to eliminate difficulties for people with disabilities, especially for people with visual impairments, who were still considered to be unsatisfying. This innovation takes into account the legal and actual situations of people with disabilities. Ladies and gentlemen, for example, it was increasingly common to block control devices for people with visual impairments by isolated vehicles or objects. In these cases, it was not possible to apply without doubt legal arrangements for punishment or removal. An explicit ban on holding and parking will now ensure the use of control devices for people with visual impairments and also enable the removal of vehicles or objects that affect this usability. In order to facilitate people with visual impairment, a minimum height is also provided for the affixing of road signs if they are situated in the area of pedestrian areas. Thus, these legal ambiguities are also eliminated by this novel. These measures benefit some 340 000 people with visual impairment throughout Austria. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, people with disabilities should be facilitated access to medical practices, ambulatorys, treatment facilities and the like. For this purpose, the possibility is provided to allow the holders of IDs in accordance with § 29b of the STVO to continue or at certain times allow pedestrian zones to operate. So you see, ladies and gentlemen, with these changes in the law a legal gap will be closed and, on the other hand, people with disabilities will be relieved of visiting doctors and similar institutions. It is a good thing that has been done there, and it will hopefully find the approval of all the political groups.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e26739	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law in 786 of the Supplements. There is a supplementary amendment tabled by Mr Pock, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Mr Willi and Mr Deimek have also made a request for a separate vote on paragraph 12a. I am therefore going to vote first on the supplementary proposal mentioned, then on the part of the vote concerned by the request for a separate vote, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Members of Parliament have tabled an additional proposal concerning Sections 7, 12, 19, 68 and 76 of the Rules of Procedure. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who speak for it. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall be voting separately on paragraph 12a as amended by the Committee's report. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting for this part of the bill to be a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – This is an in agreement, so the draft law is also adopted in third reading. [[20:17:42]] 5. Point Report by the Transport Committee on Amendment No 589/A(E) by Georg Willi, colleagues on Alpine transit (787 d.b.) 6. Point Report by the Committee on Transport on Amendment No 578/A(E) by Mr Christian Hafenecker, Members of the Committee on Transport and Tourism, on car checks at eastern borders (788/B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e26831	We now come to points 5 and 6 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. This is what Mr Hafenecker has to say. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e26859	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! In my statement, I refer to our resolution 578/A(E) concerning car checks at the eastern borders. It should be said that this request is actually over a year old, because I already made it in July 2014. It has also developed as a response to the 2013 figures obtained at the time of the on-road checks – these are the 2013 figures and not, as mentioned in the Committee, the 2011 figures. He was also a response to the massive increase in these figures compared with the years 2010 and 2011. These were, in part, very alarming figures which we could draw from the report. For example, I can report: In the case of 25.7 percent of checked vehicles – the Austrian vehicles are not included – there was a risk of delay. Furthermore, 31.79 percent of vehicles had serious defects. So you see: Risk in default for a quarter of all controlled vehicles, which were 10 291 vehicles, and still a third of vehicles had serious defects. We have also compared the share of vehicles at risk in delay with the Austrian vehicles controlled: The proportion of foreign vehicles is twice as high. It was therefore also the intention of this request to start exactly there and to develop and intensify the controls accordingly. Unfortunately, in the Committee on Transport, we had to deal with the typical reactions of the government parties. There was a negative attitude towards the opposition request, the application has been left more or less “sleeping” and is now left lapidar. There is no serious discussion about this. I think the schina arguments, which have also been put in committee, explain this to her. It has been said that the figures are not representative because only foreigners are stopped. This is not true, of course, because anyone who knows these points on the motorway knows that the whole traffic is being diverted and diverted and, of course, a cross-section of the whole traffic is controlled, and not only selective foreigners. Then there was also the argument that the Austrian cars would also be so poor together. It is also necessary to refer to the report, where it says that the double amount of foreign vehicles was in a much worse condition than Austrian vehicles. There too, I think, one would have had a basis for discussion. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Then there was the argument that many Austrian freighters are already on the road with foreign markings. I cannot understand this argument, ladies and gentlemen, in this sense. If this is really the case, perhaps you should consider what economic circumstances you have created, and not argue as an argument in this debate. There is therefore a clear objective of this request to strengthen controls where the deficits have been identified. It would be important to establish a level playing field for the Austrian farmers through these controls. A reduction in the number of accidents would have been in the foreground. It would simply be a matter of saving human life and health in the first place. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I believe these arguments can be seen that this is not an ideologically coloured request, but it would simply have been a practical approach. I really expected that we could enter into a serious discussion. I think it must be in all our interest to control specifically those who have been on public transport so far with public vehicles in order to ensure the safety of Austrian roads accordingly. Perhaps one thing to conclude, given the current debate: If we had been talking about this request a year ago and if we had intensified the controls, perhaps some human tragedy would still have been prevented in the field of towing.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e26923	The next item is Mr Hell. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e26944	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I can deal with item 5. It is about the demand for an Alpine transit exchange, i.e. an influence in the shift of freight transport from road to rail. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen, we know from many discussions in the area of transport that such a shift is a very complex issue, because of course there are many different approaches in the countries. An essential condition for serious discussion of this issue, however, is that certain conditions are needed to create a better and more advanced offer. Switzerland and Austria have in their rail infrastructure measures, such as the construction of the Gotthard base tunnel, the Brenner base tunnel, but also the Sem- Mering base tunnels and the Koralm tunnel have taken proper steps and conditions. From this perspective of the two countries, it could be assumed that the Alpine transit exchange can be a attractive topic and a charming system for these two countries and that this will certainly bring a discussion with them. Ladies and gentlemen, the conclusions in this proposal that the introduction of an EU-lawable Alpine transit market is not an obstacle to the introduction of an EU-wide Alpine transit market is unacceptable in this form. This has also been clear from the study mentioned above. A Alpine transit exchange would not be compatible with the current EU legal system and would clearly contradict Switzerland's agreement with the EU, the so-called Land Transport Agreement. In both cases, it required an EU derogation from the ban on quotas and therefore a change in EU law. There will currently be no political majority in this area. That is why we will not vote in favour of this request either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e26990	Next, Mr Willi. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e27011	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! One thing you can believe me: I know quite well about transit questions. This accompanies me for almost a quarter of a century, and I have experienced courageous red transport ministers and courageous red Chancellors. They implemented the ecopoints system in 1994. [[Abg. Deimek: That was Westenthaler!]] The ecopoints system was from the idea exactly what is contained in this request for the Alpine transit exchange, namely to say that we need a certain number of ecopoints and every truck so that it can pass through Austria, a certain number of points, and the cleaner it is, the fewer points it needs. The aim was to provide an incentive for trucks to be cleaner, thus sparingly dealing with the ecopoints. At the same time, the number of ecopoints has been cut down year after year to force the shift to the rail next to the cleaning of the trucks. That worked ten years. It was set up for ten years; Austria has proven that it is. It is also proven that it is legally possible because it was negotiated with the EU and entered the EU Accession Treaty. If it were illegal in the EU, it would not have been possible to do so. That is, Austria has shown that it is. Now the Swiss build the huge tunnels – next year they are finished with the Gotthard base tunnel – and say they need a shift instrument. They offer the Alpine transit exchange, which from the system is exactly what the ecopoints were. What about Austria? – Austria even builds three tunnels that cost €15 billion – €15 billion – and will be finished in ten years. Then we've got empty tubes around because there's no freight trains there, right? In June, Pat Cox invited the head of state of Tyrol and the Green Transport Councillor Felipe, saying that it is urgently necessary to develop strategies for the relocation of goods because it takes time. Cox as the TEN responsible for the TEN 1 line Scandinavia-Mediterranean has said that we should finally do something for the relocation of goods. And now Austria should turn the Alpine transit market into an Austrian position in Brussels, and the Minister says that it is not EU law. First of all, this is contradicted by the ecopoint system and secondly by a very good opinion by Professor Epiney. I'll give you that, Minister. It says that it goes, but what it needs is also inside, namely political will, ladies and gentlemen. If you have the political will to build three tunnels for €15 billion, I demand from taxpayers that you ensure that these tunnels make sense. And they only make sense if we bring together a shift in goods. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We need transport policy conditions. The best idea that exists so far is the Alpine transit stock market, which would almost force a shift in goods with market instruments. At least I expect you to have at least an alternative proposal if you say today that it is not possible. So far, I've only heard I can't. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Donate.]] You have a responsibility for €15 billion, and these are due to the fact that you are presenting recipes, how these goods are actually to be shifted. That is your duty if you reject this request today.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e27070	Next, Mr Ottenschlager. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e27091	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The argument, Mr Willi, that we are justifying the projects that are very expensive – that is true – so to speak, in the end, because we are justifying businesses, companies and, finally, consumers who pay for them – we all pay as taxpayers – and then put something back on them – a Alpine transit market would be especially a burden on Austrian businesses and therefore on consumers – I do not see that. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Willi.]] In addition, there is a whole sluggish line of arguments which are against accepting this request today. I would like to stress that I understand that there are considerations. But I believe that this proposal is not mature and that it still needs a lot of brain narrowness to go in the right direction. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Make a better one!]] It is in fact also according to our information that it is not possible in the form of EU law. There is a ban on quotas in EU border traffic and amendments require the consent of other Member States. Perhaps you remember, as well as all the other ladies and gentlemen who were there when the Swiss delegation was with us in Parliament, when a significant part of the members of this delegation said, well, they are not very excited about their system. Maybe we should find out more about this, so there is not everything. [[Abg. Willi: Extreme rights were these!]] These were also economic representatives, that has nothing to do with extreme right. We must also consider how we deal with our economic location. In particular, Tyrolean companies would be affected, because it is not that we can make a preference. This certainly does not hold true to EU law. And the ecopoints system was a transitional provision, which was negotiated by the then Federal Government with a clear expiry date. We already have to distinguish between how the internal market works and how it was then. If we assume that there is a ban on discrimination, then, of course, Austrian entrepreneurs would be affected, and that consumers pay at the end of the day. I don't think that should be our idea. As I said, I understand that one is discussing and thinking about this, but that is not the solution from my point of view. I think we must be more honest throughout the debate. I sometimes have the impression that here I like to be one-sided about the transport industry – I don't want to say now, being skinned, but at least one tries to burden them. And I don't think that makes sense either. It is also about the need to transport food, medicines, goods of daily use – over a few kilometers, but they must be transported. It is good and right to produce and buy regionally, but there is not every 20 kilometers a corresponding factory that produces and, so to speak, distributes it there. Transport is important. I object that we are thinking about further loads here, then that goes to the cover-up truck toll. And at the end of the day – I repeat it – entrepreneurs and probably consumers pay, and we don't want to.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e27147	The next item is the speech by Mr Pock. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e27168	Mr President. Estimated Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! I have just about a minute's speaking time, so I'm focusing on a agenda item. I would like to refer to item 6. Mr. Hafenecker, I very much appreciate you personally, but I have the impression in the request that it always happens to the liberals that they are only outright... and then read anything behind it, then there is a diver and then it flashes. [[Abg. Hafenecker: This is a selective perception!]] But in that case, there are the foreign licenses, someone was only passing through. Your request does not work in any way! The first point is: The statement of reasons is completely wrong. You are right that more than half of the stopped vehicles that have shown defects had foreign markings. But more than three-quarters of the vehicles we stopped had foreign markings, as we are already focusing on them. The second point is: If you insist that it is not about any discrimination now, but simply about foreign vehicles: Then why only the eastern border? I mean, there are countries everywhere else; why the East border? [[Abg. Hafenecker: Because the Rostlauben all come out of the East Block!]] It is companies that are mostly driving through Austria, because we are a transit country, and we would block them in addition. They also deliver to Austria! I am truly grateful that the request does not include the fact that the fence you want to lay around our country is also across the motorway. That would probably be a planning mistake. In principle, however, the application has no substance and there is no reason to do so. There is a Schengen area, it is controlled, the controls are successful. [[Abg. Hafenecker: That's how it works!]] It does not make sense to find the fences and border controls and the demolition, nor does it make sense that you are looking for a scapegoat. But it is not the right time for hetze, just because two country elections are on the doorstep, especially not in transport policy. [[Abg. Hafenecker: Who is hectic? Mr President, I would like to ask for more seriousness.]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e27248	The next item is the speech by Mr Antoni. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e27269	Thank you very much, Mr President. Federal Minister! I too would like to comment briefly on the item on the agenda. Application 578/A(E) concerning car checks at eastern borders refers in particular to the operational statistics contained in the report of the Bundesanstalt für Verkehrs (Bundesanstalt für Verkehrs on technical on-the-road checks) in Austria ‘in 2013’. In the present proposal, BMVIT is also called upon to step up its use for on-road controls on non-Austrian motor vehicles with markings to the eastern neighbours. Based on the usage statistics, applicants have concluded that vehicles from third countries have been identified at an above average rate of frequently severe technical deficiencies and therefore pose a high transport risk. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that the non-Austrian marking, based solely on the criterion set out in this proposal, clearly contradicts the legal provisions on the implementation of technical on-road checks, which is also applicable to the problem of the prohibition of systematic, regular checks on persons at EU internal borders, in accordance with § 58 para. 2a of the KFG, vehicles must be carried out on site and on site regardless of their origin, i.e. on-road technical control. And according to Art. 8 of Directive 2014/47/EU of the 3. On 4 April 2014 the inspectors shall refrain from any discrimination on the basis of the nationality of the driver or of the country in which the vehicle is registered or put into service. Finally, I would like to point out that a maintenance of vehicles only due to a non-Austrian mark unnecessarily binds control capacities and would affect technical on-road controls both in the area of efficiency and in the area of effectiveness. For these reasons, we will vote in favour of the negative committee report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e27304	I call Mr Walser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e27325	Mr President. Minister! High house! I would like once again to break a lance for Mr Willi's proposal on an Alpine transit exchange. In fact, Mr Ottenschlager, Mr Oekenschlager, Mr OeVP, should rejoice because it is a market-economy instrument. It is an instrument which is in the best sense of the word control and does not pre- writes that the free choice of transport is very well taken into account, and that is, in fact, what all the essential experts are telling us is in accordance with European law. It also surprises me a little, Mr Hell, that no one of you is concerned about what the benefits are and how the effects are in Switzerland today. Switzerland has managed to significantly reduce road traffic over the last one and a half decades thanks to the Alpine transit market. Also this year there are reports of success that the railway has won very much: Despite strong francs and economic crisis, we have massive increases. Today – I have picked it out – it is 69.2 percent of the freight traffic that has been handled on the railways. Mr Willi has rightly pointed out that we are building sinteurs tunnels and do not think at all, make no provision at all that traffic will then really be shifted to the railway. Look This is what you're looking at: In 2000, the Swiss had 1.4 million heavy road freight vehicles across the Alps. Today, it's still a good 1.1 million. This is at a time when there has, however, been a significantly higher level of traffic. These are figures, of which we can cut ourselves off in Austria, although we are not so bad, I admit. But, of course, we need to think about the future here. It is irresponsible to the population, towards taxpayers, de facto €15 billion, with the financing costs, the estimates go to €25 and over €25 billion, to invest in tunnel projects and not to take precautions so that these tunnels are actually adopted. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] So, ladies and gentlemen, a little more courage in transport policy would be appropriate. We also have a responsibility for the next generation. And these changeovers, they should be made now.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e27391	Mr Doppler spoke as the last speaker in this debate. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e27413	Mr President. Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I mean, Mr Hafenecker is perfectly right. Car controls, especially at the eastern borders, are quite, very important. We have discussed the problem of refugees today, and the colleague has referred to it that one might have been able to prevent this human suffering, perhaps this tragedy. This is an important aspect. Of course, his request is no longer entirely new, that is true. But one sees that the number of traffic accidents has fallen, but unfortunately the number of road fatalities has increased a little. Everyone dead in road traffic is one too much, ladies and gentlemen very much appreciated! The fact that in the case of vehicles which are not registered and registered in Austria, there are very often significant deficiencies in the case of checks is beyond question, Mr Pock – is it not? –, especially in the case of trucks. Each of us is very much on the highways, and you can see that even as a layman often, when you go by car behind a truck that has a defect. That is also out of question. You can agree with me, can you? [[Abg. Pock nods consenting.]] And there is a need for controls, no question at all, for all vehicles! My colleague, Mr Hafenecker, has rightly said that we could prevent human suffering if these controls could be carried out rigorously. Of course, the executive also needs appropriate personnel. I think it is important that we finally increase staff, because with this level of staff, these controls, which are necessary to prevent human suffering, are not to be carried out. On this occasion, I would also like to thank the executive very much. It's great! I am very busy on the West motorway and I see them controlling very well – this is out of question – but of course we also know that trucks that are not allowed in Austria usually have significant shortcomings. This is not what I say, but it is experienced in checks carried out by the police or the executive. And this is important so that road safety is guaranteed in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e27458	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 5: Proposal from the Transport Committee to take note of its report 787 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 6: Proposal from the Transport Committee to take note of its report 788 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. [[20:44:40]] 7. Point Report by the Committee on Transport on the motion for a resolution (Doc. Strengthen cooperation in road construction and maintenance (789 d.a.) 8. Point Report by the Transport Committee on Amendment 1105/A(E) by Mr Michael Pock, Members and colleagues, on the Commission for Sustainable Infrastructure Financing (790 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e27534	We now come to points 7 and 8 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker is Mr Willi. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e27562	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I take Mr Pock's request to put forward a motion for a resolution. Mr Pock would like to see a Commission on sustainable infrastructure financing. Sustainable infrastructure financing means looking at it, you need it at all, and if you need it, how to plan it, how to look and how to finance it. There is a huge project in the area of Vienna, which is very controversial, in which I think it would be good if you finally left your fingers on it. This is the third runway at Schwechat Airport. If you look at the airport from above, you'll see two landepists standing about at an angle of 120 degrees to each other. This second runway was therefore built to relieve Vienna of noise and land from other directions, or to be able to start in a different direction, so that not all of us can get rid of the noise. If you look at how the third run is, the road is parallel to the first, so the orientation is the same as the first one. If you want to drive from the third runway with the plane to the parking areas, you have to roll over the second runway. That is to say, the second road to the discharge of Vienna would lose its function. So the whole thing is, first of all, a misconstruction. Secondly, It is said that Vienna Airport is growing. The fact is, the number of passengers is increasing slightly, the number of passengers is decreasing, although there are proper promotions for this, and the number of flight movements is also decreasing as people fly in slightly larger planes. That means that there is no need for this third runway at all, but it should cost 1 billion €. And what would she bring? – It would bring more noise to the Viennans, especially in the south and south-west, because then only two parallel slopes are in operation. The second slope, which stands sloping, would be devalued. My motion for a resolution is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] By the way, this is in line with your government programme, as it says within it that one wants to develop the air transport site in a sustainable way and only if necessary to provide support for the construction of a third runway. I have proved that the need is not present. I would ask you to agree to my request.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e27638	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e27726	Mr Buchmayr. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e27748	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Dear colleague Pock of the NEOS! The current proposal concerns better cooperation in road construction and road maintenance with reference to a Court of Auditors' report on road detour. This shows very clearly how little NEOS have arrived in the countries and communities. The reality is: There are very intensive consultations on planning projects on federal and state roads, BMVIT, ASFINAG and the relevant parts of the state governments down to the municipalities. Austria was one of the first countries in Europe to implement and consistently develop modern conservation management in a partnership between ASFINAG, the Ministry of Transport and Economic Affairs, the Länder and Science, as well as a modern system for the analysis of road conditions. This is also reflected in the Court of Auditors' report. Dear NEOS, more and more often, the impression is that your goal is to afford functioning systems through demands. If this does not work, bureaucratic goals will be required until entire administrative units only deal with themselves. This is not necessarily our way. I might like to mention a positive example. In recent weeks, the ÖBB transported tens of thousands of refugees in Austria from east to west: very flexible, well organized and without major PR. Does anyone think that would have worked with a privatized ÖBB as well? Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e27781	I call Mr Pock. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e27802	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! I will respond immediately to Mr Buchmayr's statement, but before that, to the package of requests. I submitted a series of requests to the Transport Committee a few months ago, including many different small and large measures, which would have saved some €700 million of tax money per year. 700 million €! Now, depending on the political group, one can differ whether all the measures are true or whether some of them – depending on the state of mind and ideology – are perhaps overwhelming. But in principle I assume that all of us in the House are pursuing the goal of using tax money so sparingly that we can use it in future in areas such as education or digitization or simply in order to finance the next tax reform to reduce taxes. Now I am adding that most of the applications have not been dealt with, which would have meant that certain infrastructure projects will no longer be built or will be built over a longer period or to a lesser extent that we are Maybe in the future, not the Business Class and the 1. The class of the ÖBB subsidizes, but in fact only the 2nd class. Class that we make tenders in such a way that all providers can offer on a route, of course with quality criteria, so that the staff do not suffer and that the good routes to private and non-profitable do not go to the state. There you could have discussed everything. Perhaps one would have come to the consensus that we will save € 350 million in the year instead of € 700 million, because otherwise it hurts too much. Then we could have said that of the €350 million we take half for the debt reduction and the other half for our children, and probably everyone in the House would have been satisfied. We didn't do that. What we did – we? – what the government parties have done – “we” to say would be quite wrong – was that they delayed all the requests that would have hurt them if we had discussed them here today in committee so that we could not discuss them in plenary and removed two requests that they also rejected. In these two requests, which have been rejected, no painful processes would have been planned. On the one hand, based on the Court of Auditors' report, the Court of Auditors has criticised that we do not know how many billions of euros we would have to spend on the rural roads in the future and that there is actually no uniform inventory. There is a system that works; for example, it works very well in the Federal State of Upper Austria, in others not so well. Our intention was that there should be a set of uniform standards, which should not, of course, lead to the creation of a bureaucracy. The second request, which has been rejected, states that an expert committee will be set up, which will deal with how we will finance our transport infrastructure in the future. We're funding them on pump. The ÖBB lends itself money with the security of the Republic, which we taxpayers all have to repay the next decades. Our intention would, of course, be to finance tax revenue continuously and also from cross-financing between road and rail. This works in Switzerland, even here it needs an Austrian solution – even in Switzerland not everything is running perfectly – but it has not been discussed. Now go back to Mr. Buchmayr. You have made the most of your efforts to make fun of the whole thing, but you are wrong in content, because you have only reflected half of the Court of Auditors' report, which is where the Court of Auditors has not criticised; you have excluded the criticism. The criticism has just been made. It affects them and not the NEOS. The second point is: My knowledge has transported private and state railways such as bus companies to refugees with great commitment across Austria. Civil society has come into play and not just the ÖBB. I find the performance of the ÖBB worth considering in this context, but it is not a question of privatisation yes or no. And in case of doubt, I'd tell you: Just look at other countries! There, mixed systems also work very well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e27867	Next, Mr Singer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e27888	Mr President. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! At the request of Mr Pock, Mr Pock, on increased cooperation with Mr Stra- For example, more institutionalized coordination is called for in the construction and maintenance of buildings. The starting point – which has already been addressed – is the extension of the federal roads in 2002. In my opinion, however, this was a particularly successful example of administrative simplification, especially in the sense of federalism. The Court of Auditors, in its 2014 report, particularly praised the reduction of double-tracks between the federal government and the country and also noted that savings of around €3.69 million were made annually. Now, as it were, a level should be taken up again; I do not consider this measure to be useful and superfluous. There is already a coordination, a very well-functioning coordination, at the level of the agricultural directives. Every two months, there are, of course, cross-border issues such as development needs, common standards and so on. I believe that this level should do the tasks that have to do directly with this on the ground, especially those that are financially responsible, and these are the countries. Let us leave the countries the space often required! They should be able to respond to regional needs without re-examination, and of course they should act as sparingly and as slenderly as possible. It's supposed to stay the same. As I said, the demands made are, in my view, overwhelming. Therefore, this request does not receive approval from our website. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e27930	The next item is the report by Mr Rauch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e27952	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Pock, we are debating two requests from you today, including the agenda item 7: Strengthening cooperation in road construction and maintenance. Data exchange, transparency and cooperation between the Federal Government and countries are to be improved. This is desirable, but in Austria we have a RVS, a directive and a directive for road transport, which is adapted to itself between the Federal Government and the Länder and is also a harmonisation, where regular meetings and coordinations between the Land Building Directors and also the Federal Ministry of Transport take place. That's how it looks in practice. To install additional instruments, we consider this to be both non-target and unfavourable in the field of transport, also in the sense of the construction industry, which in any case already is lagging behind in Austria. On the second request from you, namely to set up a Commission on Sustainable Infrastructure Financing: They are calling for an expert commission to finance transport projects in consultation with countries to identify the actual financial requirements for these projects. The central task of this Commission is to identify the nationally uniform global financial needs for local authorities. This Commission will also develop a sustainable financial and transport strategy. In the sense of federalism, we are well advised to allow countries to carry out their infrastructure tasks autonomously and country-specifically and, above all, on an autonomous basis. This proposal is somewhat realistic and practical for me and for our group as well. One point I would like to mention, Mr President, is that of you, Minister of State. This is about the additional funds in the Styria, the €23 million you have spent on the public transport, on regional transport. This was an important and very good investment in the future of public transport. This is what I wanted to say, because from the opposition side, good projects of the Federal Government should also be highlighted positively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e27994	The next speaker is Mr Lipitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e28015	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear colleague Pock, in your request you demand a Commission on Sustainable Infrastructure Financing and you are leaning on this German Commission. You have also written in your application that the key points of this Commission are increased use contributions as well as extension of the truck toll to light trucks and to federal and state roads. On the one hand, you say you want to save the taxpayer money, but on the other hand, you're taxing him again. That must be clear to us. I believe that if these proposals are the only ones that we can draw up, we do not need an external Commission. [[President Bures takes over the presidency again.]] But I'd like to add one. For me, this is always the question mark at the NEOS. You are writing in the title ‘Sustainable Infrastructure Financing Commission’. – Is it possible to mean not only infrastructure in the transport sector, but the entire infrastructure? We know the proposals of the NEOS, which also want to privatize water and canal. [[Abg. Vavrik:... privatize air!]] So there I have to say stone and clear, that must remain in public hands. That is also necessary. And if it's just the road and the rail, I'm saying, We have functioning companies such as ASFINAG and ÖBB Infrastruktur AG, which not only plan and set up, but also operate. I think we have a functioning system. That is why we will reject this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e28055	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall therefore proceed to the votes I shall take separately from each of the Committee's proposals. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 7: Proposal from the Transport Committee to take note of its report 789 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 8: Proposal from the Transport Committee to take note of its report 790 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Willi, colleagues on No on 3. Piste at Vienna-Schwechat Airport. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[21:03:51]] 9. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 990/A(E) by Mr Mag. Daniela Musiol, colleagues on parental leave for nursing parents (704 d.b.) 10. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 918/A(E) by Mrs Anneliese Kitzmüller, colleagues, on improved support for families with follow-up babies during the period under consideration (705 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e28155	This brings us to points 9 and 10 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. [[21:04:10]] Before I give the floor to the first speaker, I am still aware that there has been an interlocutory call in the debate on urgent question, which I first of all do not fully perceive and which I have not been able to find out where he came from. However, he was observed at the speaker's desk. That is why I have come to the preliminary Stenographical Protocol, which shows that Mr Klubobmann Lopatka used the expression "gauner party". That is why I give Mr Lopatka a call for an order. [[Congratulations and Ah-Rufe to members of the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kogler: But who did he mean?]] This leads us to the debate. First of all, Mrs Kitzmüller is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e28202	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! For the first time General: If we had no opposition requests, the Family Committee would have nothing to do. We have 55 applications and so on, which come from the opposition, but five are from the government. So that already shows the importance of the family in the government or in the ÖVP, which the family minister puts. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Höfinger: Quality before quantity!]] Nor do we need to wonder about this procedure in the Family Committee as far as the families are concerned. To do this, we only need to look at what the woman ministers said in an interview in the newspaper “Austria” in June – I quote –: “When you buy a new car or a mobile phone or something, you also spend money. If it's about the family and you have to invest a lot of money for it, then the call for the state will soon get loud. It can’t be either.” That says everything we have to expect! What's that supposed to mean? Do you compare cars and children? This means that there is no such thing as segregation. Even though it may have been so fluffy it may have been said, I don't think you can say that. You can't even say that. Children are not goods, children are our future and children are the basis of the state. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Therefore, in many cases, when it comes to investment in families and children, of course, the reputation for the state becomes loud, logical. Let's look at the payment of the childcare allowance for a child! Our application, which is being dealt with here today, indicates that at the time of the birth of a sibling, the previous childcare amount is deleted. - It's logical, isn't it? Another child does not cost twice as much, but only once that much. In the case of a second child, the first child is no longer worth as much as the second child. - It's quite clear, isn't it? It costs the care nothing more, it costs the Getting the child nothing, it costs the investment in the child nothing more. So that shows something's going wrong. And, of course, the call for the state is clear and clear, Mrs. Minister. Or: According to ÖGB Vice-President Renate Anderl – which is something new now – the right to parental leave of workers is to be reduced by two years. That means that there are only five years left and not seven more. Of course, the call for the state is loud. Or: Hospital cost contribution – there is also a request that will be made. Or: Family aid – it is still not automatically valorised. ==References====External links== Family aid. And what has become of it? The 100 € that it was worth, it is no longer, it is only worth 94 €. Pensions are such a thing. As part of the tax reform, families now receive only €220 more per year. That's 18,30 € per month. And with that, you want to strengthen the families? Or – something else –: In order to protect families from poverty, family aid will be increased by a total of 1.9 percent. – Well, that will strengthen the families! Mrs. Minister, of course the call for the state is going to be loud. And there's the policy you're running here – not you alone; it can't be that you have to do everything by yourself – something where everything goes wrong. Take note, Madam Minister, that what we invest in our children and in our families is our future! And if you, Mrs Minister, can't do that, or whatever you want, then as a family minister, you're completely wrong in the square.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e28255	Next, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Mr Straster. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e28276	Madam President. Estimated Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Kitzmüller is undoubtedly – I am saying that she is from Upper Austria – already in election mode, but I am doing all of this in a row, as we are used to in the Family Committee: everything in a row and quite objectively. [[Interlocutory calls by Mr Kitzmüller and Mr Schimanek]] Just as Mrs Kitzmüller is acting in committee, so we are going to act in plenary today: in a row. The first of the two agenda items concerns nursing parents. I can only say a great thank you to all nurses in this context, because they make a very important social contribution in this country. Mrs Musiol is calling for approximation in this regard when it comes to karenz provisions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kitzmüller.]] This is an excellent demand, which is also covered by the government programme. The application will be forwarded to the Committee and will be sent to it for a solution. – Mrs Musiol, thank you for this contribution! Secondly, I should like to explain the concern which, unfortunately, has been somewhat lacking in Mrs Kitzmüller's speech because of the many polemics. There is the child care account, and that can be called up in different periods of time, as it is current, and if a second child is born into this reference period, it may be that one falls around a certain amount of money. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Barbara Rosenkranz.]] This circumstance – Mrs. Rosenkranz, listen! – this situation has been no longer the major problem since there were very short reference periods and will no longer be a problem as soon as there is a child care account, because one can change the reference period once in the reference period in the new child care account system. [[Interlocutors Barbara Rosenkranz and Kitzmüller]] So that will be solved. We therefore reject this request because there will soon be a solution. [[Call at the FPÖ:Well, is that true or not?]] There is also a positive news – as always, Mrs Kitzmüller was relatively negative on the road – and this positive news is that we are Vice-European World Champions, Vice-European Champions. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: ‘Vize European World Champions’?- Oh, my God!]] The Federal Minister has issued the objective of becoming Europe's most family-friendly country. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kitzmüller.]] See here, in 2012 the Austrians said 30 percent: Yes, our country is family friendly! In the meantime three years have moved to the country, and in 2015, 63 percent of Austrians say that Austria is a family-friendly country. – That, Mrs. Kitzmüller, is the answer to your many questions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kitzmüller: That's no answer!]] First: It has been achieved a lot since Sophie Karmasin was a family minister. And the second message is: We are not first, we still have many projects that we want to launch so that we can be the number one in Europe in about ten years. And that's our goal. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] With united forces – Mrs. Kitzmüller, you are or have also been active in local politics – with united forces from the federal states, the municipalities, the ministry and from us in the plenary, we will succeed that we are really European champions, and we can then celebrate Mrs. Federal Minister Karmasin as our team leader Marcel Koller. [[Cheerfulness and renewed call for intervention of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] In this sense I wish ourselves many, many interesting meetings of the Family Committee and good cooperation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e28387	The next item is the speech by Mr Steinbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e28409	Appreciate Mrs Minister! Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Dear spectators in front of the televisions! Mr Strasser, as chairman of the Family Committee, you must be the greatest optimist and the greatest lobbyist for the families, and you should be happy if you have such female competitors as Mrs. Kitzmüller, who would like to have the best for the families in the end. But that is exactly the problem, as with many other issues: that it is politically tacted here instead of pulling together on a knit. I recall the example you hear in every folk school and in every team lesson when the donkeys pull in different directions on a knit. I think that memory is simply necessary. Thank you, I can join you, thanks to all the educators, because they do a great job. I also see it in my own family, as the young mothers sacrifice what relinquish they do for the family, what patience and endurance they spend. This cannot be rewarded, recognized and thanked enough. But I think that is the problem: that it is too little recognized by politics that the family is not only the most important cell in the state, but also the cheapest cell in the state. [[Abg. Lueger: No!]] [[Congratulations with Team Stronach and FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Straster.]] I would also like to make a brief statement: It is, in fact, the most personal and most favourable form of education and, ultimately, the most favourable and personal form of care in old age. I think that this is too little recognized, because much is being delegated to the public hand, and that is far too little from the cost side. I think, in rural areas in particular, we have the problem of families having much higher costs due to the often missing public transport links, but I think that what is particularly affecting families – Mr Strasser and Mrs Minister, as I may appeal to you – is that we still have 36 percent loss of purchasing power in child support due to the lack of inflation from the last two governments. That hits the families massively! We have only experienced the wealth of costs at the start of the school, the spending blinds, which are already going on again with the first excursions, bus fees and conference fees. This is a daily financial effort that families have to make! Thank God there is now a new calculation, recently published in the press: A child costs the family until the 15th century. Year of life 130 000 €. That is an essential economic factor! We must not underestimate this and we cannot stress it enough. That is why we of course support the demand that the childcare allowance be paid for each child, because every child needs to have a hard time because the costs are incurred for each child. And another essential requirement is that we should also charge these four years per child during the pension billing periods. Even though a mother has been born within these four years, she has done this education and is entitled to these billing periods. We are really required to use Mrs. Minister here for the families. If we want to achieve this high goal of being the most family-friendly country in Europe, I think we must do everything together to achieve this goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e28464	Mrs Lueger is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e28486	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Now I do not want to vote in the wish-dir-what-Chor – I have the impression that there are now elections coming and now there is a “desir-what”, which is to be done – but I would like to refer to the issues that we have discussed in the Committee. In particular, I would like to say something about a request made, namely the request concerning parental leave for nursing parents. Dear Leo Steinbichler, when you speak of the parents as the smallest cell, I say yes, that's right, but often it doesn't work in the smallest cell and you need nursing parents. We must therefore create the framework conditions that these parents, who are also very sacrificing care for children who are often traumatized, have something of it. And we can only take advantage of it in the Family Committee, because in the end, the Ministry of Social Affairs is responsible because it is related to the protection of mothers under labour law. We agreed this time that we said in the Family Committee that we will not delay the requests so that they disappear into the never mind, but we will talk about it here in plenary and assign it to the committee responsible. This is happening here now, and I am very happy about that. In addition, the government programme also states that we want to improve the situation of nursing parents. And I would like to address not only the nursing parents, but also the crisis caregivers, who are in a much more, much more difficult situation when they are called on at night to take on a “dwarf” and really take it out of the most difficult conditions for up to three months. I think that the crisis caregivers are included in all cases. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I mean, it's the right way to sort this out here with us now, saying: Yes, we want this, yes, we support it, yes, it should also come to the right committee, namely in those who are really responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e28529	The next item is the speech of Mrs Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e28550	Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Strasser, Mrs Kitzmüller has given an opinion on these requests. I have only a little more time, so there is only more time for a political remark – I perceive it completely differently than you –: While I find, with our support, by Mrs Kitzmüller, applications in the committee which you are always sinking, delaying and so on, I observe little activity from your club towards reforming family policy, which would be urgently necessary. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I know you a little bit – I know you're mayor: But you did not really mean that you are taking seriously the report on family-friendlyness and that we are now the second-family-friendly nation in Europe, which is tomorrow in the “Kronen Zeitung”?- Oh, my God! This is an article – read it through! – who hardly offers information. [[Abg. Straster: These are surveys!]] This is an advertisement for the woman family minister! But you already know that there is a very sharp number of people in developed countries, where couples themselves decide on the number of children?- Oh, my God! - That's the birth rate. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Straster.]] The demographic sinking flight has now passed into a crash flight, and you're just doing a little bit of a show here. They have resigned as a family party – I have to say it again and again. You just play it, you don't take it seriously.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e28599	Next is Mrs Mag. Mr Schwentner. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e28620	Madam President. Good evening, Mrs. Minister! I would say that one of the best indications that we are a family-friendly country would be that we do not discuss family policy at this time, but that both the fathers in this room and the mothers in this room would have time to be at home with their families. [[Congratulation with Greens and FPÖ]] I think that in more family-friendly countries, for example in Scandinavia, it is also possible to live differently in politics and to work in politics. This – I don't know what – PR regarding Austria as the most family-friendly country is beautiful and good. We read it. There are obviously certain indicators, such as compatibility, childcare opportunities, even the father's participation that has actually improved, I just think that this has improved in recent years, but that the spirit of time is partly faster than politics. I would also like in this area that there is also more implementing power on the part of the Ministry. Now I come to the request made by my predecessor Daniela Musiol, who has been present and who has already been addressed several times, concerning the possibility for nursing parents to go into parental care. Mr Lueger has already described it: Yes, there are situations where this comes very ad hoc, where you find out very unprepared from the youth office that the child is here now or that it is coming. And on the one hand, there is virtually the great willingness of these parents to take up children, to provide them with a home, to make their own four walls available, but there is little that policies do to guarantee them the right to parental care. This means that these families and these parents depend on the employer or the employer to get the consent in a difficult situation. I would like to see - if we are already in this hurry and with this force of implementation - that this was going a little faster, because what does it mean when it comes to Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. So, for example, why is there no government proposal for this? Why do we have to wait for this to come into the Committee? I would like to discuss this again there, and I am pleased if there is agreement and the will to do so, but can we please do this a little faster? Because this is about nursing parents who are willing to take up children who also have to spare much to the state, that is, not only the homes, places in housing communities, but also mental salvation from children who come to a family from difficult circumstances. That is why I would like to see more implementation and faster willingness to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e28669	The next item is the speech by Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e28690	Madam President. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Support for the family must be of great concern to all of us, including you, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Straster. I think that's out of question. There is a reference period for the child care allowance and various reference variants, for example 30 plus 6, 20 plus 4, 15 plus 3, 12 plus 2 and so on and so on. Mr Dipl.-Ing. Straster said something was going to change. – I hope that something will change, but I do not entirely believe in it. It is only that the whole, ladies and gentlemen, is not quite fair – Mrs. Kitzmüller is perfectly right in this regard – because it is so that child care money is always paid for the youngest child. If another child is born during the reference period, this right to child care for the older child ends. That's it! Mr Dipl.-Ing. Straster, if you say there's something else here, prove it! Send other variants! So far, nothing is available. I think it is important for the families, for our future, that the best possible support for the families is available here, otherwise it looks very bad about the future in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e28727	The next item is Mrs Ecker's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e28749	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Children are our future. – We hear this sentence all the time, but do we always understand it correctly? An average Austrian woman receives 1.46 children with an average of 29 years. In other words, we have over decades a development towards fewer and fewer children. The extended training period contributes to this as well as increasing competition in the labour market. In other words: It is becoming increasingly difficult for people in this country to have and also to raise children. Today, when we talk about extending parental care to nursing parents, I can say that I can get this idea very, very much. The degree of justice in our society can be measured precisely by dealing with our children. A nursing family can be a huge chance for a nursing child. As a mother of two children, I know what it means to raise a child, how much power, how much energy, how much time and how much money it costs. I believe we should support all parents in this country. As my previous speakers have said, the situation for nursing parents is such that there is no right to parental care if the child has not been released for adoption and one wants to adopt it. Let me summarize: It's not just about parental care, it's about children – children who can't choose which family they get in or into. We should now create framework conditions that all children have equal opportunities. If there is a law gap, it is immediately closed. Children are our future, that's right. Let us create the appropriate framework conditions to offer equal opportunities to every citizen of the earth in this country! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e28791	The next item is the speech by Mr Knes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e28812	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) First of all, I would like to thank the SPÖ for bringing this point to the plenary's agenda, which is a really great request from Mrs Musiol. I would like to mention one thing: it has already been said a lot, but we should also consider the framework conditions for star children in this proposal. They are fully covered in this proposal and we should talk about it in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. In principle, this is a very positive proposal, which the SPÖ of course supports so that we can assign it to the Committee. On the other side We have heard something else today, and it is annoyed to me when time is strained today to actually run populist elections here, and things about families are mixed – this is agenda item 10. It is claimed here that nothing will be done for the families in Austria. – I would just like to remind you that exactly ten months ago, we increased the budget by € 850 million in the area of families. It's gonna wipe everything out of here. Secondly, what Mr Doppler has just mentioned: Dear colleague Doppler, all you have to do is explain it to me: If the child care money is paid out and you get a second child in the meantime, then you can't go to Karenz twice or be logged in twice somewhere, that's impossible. [[Interlocutors Barbara Rosenkranz and Doppler.]] So what's being done here is pure populism – unfortunately, it's at the expense of the families. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Schimanek and Mr Doppler.]] I would like a lance for the chairman of the Dipl.-Ing Family Committee. Breaking Straster, he mentioned it: We have a lot to do with the families, and we're just talking about: If populist applications are made, where neither a proposal comes from you, how this is to be financed, the € 850 million we have decided here in the house will be revised away when Austria does not work for the families, and pure populism for the election campaign, then you certainly do not have us at your side! Thank you. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dopp-ler]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e28870	Mrs Holzinger-Vogtenhuber is speaking as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e28891	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Estimated citizens! Dear Colleagues! In my view, the care for parents of nursing children, as requested by the Greens, is very supportive, and I have already done so in the Committee. Caring for children is an extremely important task that should be given high social recognition. At present, however, nursing parents of children who are not released for adoption are entitled to child care benefits, but are not entitled to parental care. As a result, those nursing parents who take up a serious change in their living situation will receive a child to care for it in the longer term. Mr Lueger mentioned it earlier: It is about children who are traumatized and where it takes time to take care of them. And that would be possible through a parental care, then it would be time to make a gentle start into the new family in a phase of the child, the child's youth, to take care of this child more intensively. And it does not only need equality in the claim of a carnage, but also full equality and involvement of parents, i.e. nurses, in the Mother Protection Act, but also in the Father's Carenz Act, which means full equality between adoptive parents on the one hand and nurses on the other. As already mentioned, particular emphasis should be placed on the area of crisis care parents, which is very dear to my heart and also under this new parental care, which needs to be taken into account in the new parental care for nursing parents. In order to deal with the next discrimination: The granting of care leave should not be subject to the sexual orientation of nursing parents. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] That is to say, we call for the equal rights of women and women who are supposed to have the possibility of taking care of them. These important measures can, as mentioned above, lead to the discharge of homes and housing communities and, on the other hand, help children to build ties, relationships and social developments more easily. The social partners' negotiations are under way, I hope that they will soon come to a positive conclusion in order to finally take a positive lead in this direction in the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e28943	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does one of the rapporteurs want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 9: Proposal from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 704 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. I accept Amendment 990/A(E) to the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 10: Request by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 705 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. [[21:35:42]] 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 1194/A(E) by Mr Mag. Beate Meinl-Reisinger, MES, colleagues on anchoring a dental examination in the mother-child pass (706 d.b.) 12. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 894/A(E) by Mr Leopold Steinbichler, colleagues on the abolition of hospital self-employment for children under the age of 18 (707 e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e29032	We are therefore going to the items 11 and 12 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Schimanek is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e29059	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In my speech, I will come to the request made by Mrs Beate Meinl-Reisinger, but let me briefly address the previous debate: Mr Strasser, in my opinion, not the right way and not the right way. [[Abg. We're so euphoric! Mrs Colleagues, we are so euphoric!]] If we want Austria to become the most family-friendly country, we still have a lot to do. I also believe that it is necessary that our family ministers here... [[Abg. Strasser:... Euphoria, Mrs. Colleague!]] - May I speak out, please? I believe that it is very important for us to be able to debate here in the Family Committee and also here in the plenary of government documents, which are important and are a further development for the families in Austria. But it cannot be that we are only discussing here in plenary because we have rejected and missed or assigned requests to discuss, and nothing comes from the Minister. Mrs. Minister, you should think so. It cannot be said that you are now resting on the administrative simplification of family aid, but are not giving us any proposals in Parliament. I would have expected more of you, and I believe it will not come much in the next few days and not really be expected of you. [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Jarolim: Who says that?]] Now to Mrs Beate Reisinger's request for the anchoring of a dental examination in the mother-child pass. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Jarolim]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] Mrs Collaborative, thank you very much. I congratulate you very much on your request. I can only give you a brief reassurance now: As early as 2010, we made a corresponding request for an extension of the mother-child passport, and this also resulted in the inclusion of ENT studies in the mother-child passport. Last year, the application for mandatory dental examinations in the framework of the mother-child passport was then rejected by the two government parties. [[Abg. Jarolim: Time, please!]] Now you come back with the request a year later; it is then – we have already discussed this – assigned to the Health Committee, which has rejected the last request. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Jarolim.]] That means more or less, this request will suffer the same fate: either it is rejected or it is stubbed in the drawers. It's really difficult. The request belongs to the Health Committee, Mrs Colleague, and I believe that after three years in Parliament you should actually know that he belongs there. I think you may have three more years to learn the responsibilities for applications, because just as the surveys now look in this regard, you won't master the 5 percent of the vote in Vienna, and then you have a lot of time to make the applications properly.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e29162	The next speaker was Mrs Fichtinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e29200	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! We, the Austrian People's Party, represent a family party for our families. Important points have been implemented in the sense of the families, some such as the increase in family support and the free teeth have already been mentioned today. One important point, however, is the extension of childcare, which is a great support for us mayors in the municipalities, especially in the rural communities, but also for parents, is that good care is also possible there. Unfortunately, all of this is nothing if you listen to it like that today. I may come briefly to Mr Steinbichler's request for the abolition of hospital self-employment for children and young people under 18 years of age. It will be treated as a follow-up in the relevant health committee, where it is actually a member. We agree that families must continue to be well supported and properly supported in the future, but we must bear in mind that all these considerations and needs must also ensure funding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e29227	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Meinl-Risinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e29249	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Yeah, yeah! Whatever, certainly not written off, but it is an honest concern to me, because – I have to tell you quite honestly – I am still very excited about the de- [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schimanek]] asked about the free gear, where a quite legitimate argument was put forward: You can't read the social status of a child. But now I really would like to go back a step. With this proposal, which enters the mother-child pass – best at the first tooth or at least on the first birthday – we would be able to move very, very much, with a comparatively small, really very low financial effort, namely, € 2 million a year. I have a very dear friend who's a dentist. She often tells me what she sees in children at a very young age – three, four, five years, before the second teeth come, in milk teeth. Of course, one can talk about the responsibility of the parents, not a question, but it is dramatic because these children cannot resist it or because it often means very large interventions to treat these carious teeth in any form; in some cases this is only done with full anesthesia. I'm just appealing to you for us to do this. The mother-child pass is an excellent establishment, a success project. The inclusion in the mother-child pass – as I said, my proposal would be on the first tooth or on the first birthday – would cost € 2 million, that is a crack. This brings me back to my topic of Party Funding in Austria: Please, let us all, all parties, stop at € 2 million a year and see that we bring the dental examination to the mother-child pass! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e29303	The next speaker was Mrs Kucharovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e29324	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker just mentioned it: The thickness of the wallet can often be read on the teeth of the people. It's kind of a funny saying, but it's just true. Dentistry and dental technology are extremely expensive; by the way, I generally criticise this, for we think about it: Those who have coal or money usually have white plums. All those who cannot afford this have the so-called dark amalgamplombs. This discussion should be conducted, as I think, in principle. Of course, I would like to focus on children and young people today. We made it last year that we implemented the free gears, medically indicated, for many young people, children and young people. I would like to remind you that, unfortunately, NEOS did not go along at that time, and I cannot understand that until today. [[Abg. Stroll: Socially staged...!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] I do not need to understand this either, but we are discussing today a NEOS request that we would like to assign to the Health Committee. It's about including a dental examination in the mother-child pass. I personally welcome this very much, we welcome it, because I really cannot understand that dentistry has such a special importance compared to other medical fields. In short: In the government program one has agreed on the further development of the mother-child passport, an expert group has been meeting for a long time, and I think it really is very important, because one cannot start working early enough with it to prevent it, and thus save the children very painful investigations – the colleague mentioned it before – before the second teeth come. On agenda item 12, on the withdrawal of child and youth hospital retention: This is about hospitals and hospitals that are in national competence – unfortunately, I would like to say. This is linked to the following: As in many other areas, there are simply different conditions and regulations, and that means once again it depends on whether you are at home at Lake Constance or in the Forest District. There were already discussions on the part of the then Minister of Health Stöger with the countries and the institutions, the responsible ones, in 2012 to ensure hospital self-employment for children and young people up to the age of 18. To end the age of your life. Unfortunately, there was no support from the other partners. We of the SPÖ think it is very central to really abolish this restraint, because it is again socially selected, and chronically ill children simply have enormous costs; it is incredible what costs need to be borne there. [[Abg. Wöginger: And what about the child rehabilitation?]] I know that the negotiations are to be conducted within the framework of financial compensation, but I think that will take too long. [[Abg. Wöginger: Like the children's reha!]] Therefore: We are in favour of the abolition of restraint for children and young people, and perhaps we can finally bring about a go in the federal states from which we come. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e29397	Next speaker: Mr Steinbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e29418	Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! On the points raised – they have already been mentioned in detail – one may say that the reforms are missing. Mrs Fichtinger, you mentioned this. It is interesting that the debate on financeability is started precisely in the case of measures concerning children, families. This is also the problem of the asylum debate over the past few weeks and months: that one sometimes feels that the government is directly pleased because the essential measures, the reforms discussed, the postponed and postponed reforms, no longer need to talk about the daily re-indebtedness of €36 million. [[Abg. Wöginger: We are the most family-friendly country in the world! The most family-friendly country in the world is Austria!]] Mr Wöginger, your workers are most at risk because they can no longer afford daily life. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] When do you recognize reality? Of course you want to talk about everything, but you can't. [[Abg. Wöginger:...not everything bad!]] You'll see on Sunday that people don't accept it anymore. [[Abg. Wöger: You can't do it at all!]] That's just the terrible thing that needs such events before you act. I believe that we, as responsible citizens, should address the reforms. This brings me back to this important topic: Mrs Collaborative, not all gears are paid. We only pay from level 3 – and most of the gears are now accidentally level 3. The parents wonder how this is decided where the decision-making base is. I think that's irrational. We have covered this with €80 million, and you should see that you really provide all those entitled. We have two points on the subject of dental research: the parents' responsibility and the family doctor's responsibility. The children are examined as part of the mother-child-pass examination, and a good practical doctor, I do not think, should be able to agree on the ability to judge dental defects. To the point of self retention. In Upper Austria there is the association Children's Accompaniment. Families with chronically ill Children are there, and this can be up to €50 when children are in the hospital over the turn of the year. I think it's high time to get rid of this restraint. It is part of the government programme, Mr. Wöginger, and also part of the current youth health strategy of the family ministry, Ms. Minister. I think we should go to the implementation stage. A very large population is affected by the number of people in Austria of the 8.4 million who are 1.2 million young to 15 years of age. I call for rapid implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e29487	Next come Mrs. Dr. Mückstein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e29508	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! These two applications are already suffering a rather sad fate. They are constantly pushed from one committee to another like a hot potato, from the Committee to the Health Committee, then to the Family Committee and back to the Health Committee. However, we will not give up hope because both topics would be very, very important contributions to more equal opportunities for children and young people, because they mainly concern children with handicaps and social disadvantages. As far as dental health is concerned, this has already been addressed. Such an investigation would really be an essential contribution to enhancing awareness for children and parents in this area. As far as the abolition of hospital retention is concerned, we have already applied for it ourselves. It is really an unreasonable burden for women, for families who have children in the hospital. I can also testify from my own practice what pressure there can be if you have to pay 17,50 € to 21 € per day. Once again, 500 € come together, which many parents of children, especially of chronically ill children, who need treatment, really cannot afford. It would be important, therefore, to follow the words really once again and to ensure that a positive solution is finally found in the financial equalisation negotiations in favour of children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e29546	Next speaker: Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e29567	High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is about abolishing the retention for children and adolescents during a hospital stay. Dear friends, you can I think I'm a business councillor myself in a hospital and know how difficult it is often for mothers and fathers when their children have to stay in the hospital. This is not only a financial burden, but also a mental burden, ladies and gentlemen. We have already discussed such requests enough, and I also know about the different competences, but it would be important that they be abolished, because especially for young families, this is a burden, and they should not have them if they already have the burden that the child must stay in the hospital. I think it is important that we eliminate this financial burden. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e29593	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Aubauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e29615	Madam President. Minister! High house! I really find this discussion to be very exciting at a later hour. Mrs Schimanek, you have complained of the Minister's lack of documents. When we look at tomorrow's newspapers, we see that there are very black on the front pages in huge papers, Austria has been working in the country ranking for only three years in terms of family kindness from the seventh place to the second place, while the Germans are now tenth. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Darmann: But not because of you, but despite you!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schimanek.]] We have the silver medal in the national ranking on the topic of family kindness. So if that's not a success, I don't know what else we should be happy about! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schimanek.]] I come to the request or to the request of NEOS on the anchoring of a dental examination in the mother-child pass. I think we're pretty much all agreed. For healthy teeth, as I am entirely of your opinion, you can't start to do enough early enough. This early detection of dental problems is a very important health policy issue. An info about this: In the current work programme of the Federal Government, the development of the mother-child passport is planned, and that is to say, objectives are evaluation, qualitative further development and increased use as a tool for early child promotion. So there are plans. This application belongs to the Health Committee, and there is a detailed discussion on it. Here this evaluation of the mother-child passport is carried out, and – I think we agree – we are in favour of assigning the request to the Health Committee. There are many interesting projects. Because we're just in dental health: We seniors too have a lot of wishes. We have registered the need for support for the permanent tooth replacement for the elderly. We're still a little on the waiting list, so there's still a lot to do. We're going to work for it. Today, at least we can be happy that we are a family-friendly country.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e29693	The next item is the speech by Mr Schmid. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e29714	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! My topic is the abolition of the hospital itself. reserved for young people. The application for hospital leave for children and young people up to 18 years of age. To be abolished, the following reasons must be given: Children and adolescents up to 18 years of age. Age is mainly dependent on their parents or legal guardians. In the age of rising cost of living, non-predictable costs represent a particular cost factor, especially for single earners. Both diseases and their duration of healing are not predictable and therefore financially non-planable. Private supplementary health insurance for young people and children does not meet the rule and only a few families are possible due to other financial burdens. The financing problem of various hospitals cannot be reduced with the performance of self retention. The application should therefore be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e29747	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur or the rapporteur wish to have a final word? - That's not the case. We shall therefore proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 11: Request by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 706 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. I agree with the motion for a resolution 1194/A(E) to the Committee on Health. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 12: Proposal from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 707 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. I agree with the proposal 894/A(E) to the Committee on Health. [[21:59:31]] 13. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors’ report Series Bund 2014/13 (III-111/717 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e29827	This leads us to the 13th place. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. As First of all, Mrs Mag. Mag. Mulder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e29854	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! This report also deals with the structural reform of the district courts. This was launched in 2012, with the aim of improving the quality of justice and civil service, as well as administrative facilitation, also achieving synergies, with a reduction in the number of district courts. It has never been a matter of financial savings, which have not been in the foreground, but has always been taken into account to implement these reforms without losing quality. Minister of Justice Brandstetter also made it clear to the Court of Auditors that these reforms must be pursued without time pressure and thought. His credo has declared that it does not carry out a cold blow at the District Courts and that it always has a consensus with the state government. With these gradually implemented measures, the district courts have been reduced from 141 to 116 locations in the previous year. But this also shows that the reform still has a long way ahead, and I am sure that it will also be considered. The Court of Auditors' recommendations have certainly been addressed by a majority in the current process, although I would like to make two final recommendations, which I also support, namely points 20 and 18. In point 20, the recommendation is that the different procedural periods at different locations should be carefully analysed in order to achieve a shorter duration in the procedures, and point 18 recommends that all measures should be forced to achieve the proportion of women in the management functions of the district courts as provided for in the Women's Promotion Plan. Both are objectives that are important in a modern judicial system, and it makes sense to implement them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e29899	The next item is the speech by Mr Gahr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e29921	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I should like to refer to a report that has been behind for a long time, which has been linked to the energy group, which launched an international strategy in 1999 and has invested in France, Italy and Turkey. A strategy was launched in 2008, and by the end of 2012, own resources of €2.345 billion were invested in the investments. The aim was to increase assets, to increase sales growth and, of course, to strengthen the market position in the energy sector. The Court of Auditors has examined the activities of VERBUND International GmbH abroad in the three countries mentioned for the years 2008 to 2012 and has made a number of critical findings: that before entering the market, no comprehensive analyses were made, that the expansion strategy was continued despite identified risks, and that there were no regular evaluations and adjustments. Overall, the Court of Auditors has estimated losses in the three countries over time at € 580 million. However, I should like to say here that the Committee has very comprehensively explained the reasons and the characteristics that have stood for this strategy, as I call it, by the Chairman of the Supervisory Board. I think it is also important that, when they happen, things are clarified and the view of things is shown. Above all, it was about the fact that the market has changed relatively considerably in the gas and electricity sectors at that time, that prices have developed differently from foreseeable and that, for example, the financial crisis and the so-called fracking have changed the energy landscape. In addition, an opinion was also commissioned by the association – by Mrs. University Professor Susanne Kalss – who confirmed that the commercial care It is not a matter of infringing this obligation. The only open question in such transactions is always that of whether in some areas the emergency brake could have been pulled earlier. Overall, positive developments have also emerged from these foreign participations, for example, there has been an expansion of hydropower in Germany. The trip was completed in the meantime. The company's overall success. The current focus in the Group has developed further in the main markets of Germany and Austria. However, State Secretary Mahrer also called for and suggested that a total of one should be considered to introduce a participation control over all departments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e29966	Next speaker: Mr Angerer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e29987	Madam President. Mr President. A comprehensive topic, an extensive report – again at a later hour with little speaking time, so perhaps just a few words on the structural reform of the district courts: This is a model example of how we cannot make a reform. Unfortunately, since I really have a little more time, perhaps Mr President Moser will lose a few words. This has really been money destruction. But now on the second point, which Mr Gahr has also mentioned, on the subject of foreign activities of the Association. That's a really exciting topic. The partnership goes abroad, although, of course, many investments could also be made in Austria, France, Italy and Turkey, and lowers €579 million from 2008 to 2012. The Court's report is very critical and shows many management errors in the Group. I then took the report as the basis for a parliamentary question because Mr Supervisory Board Frizberg and also Mr State Secretary Mahrer in the Committee have rather removed it from the table. I have taken out two points to which I would very much like to have some clarification from Mr Moser, because we always praise the Court of Auditors' reports, but now I am somewhat unsure because there are really contradictions. They write in the Court of Auditors report: “The Group did not carry out any deeper analyses before entering the market and pursued its expansion strategy despite the risks identified.” In response to my question to the Ministry: “VerBUND has always carried out comprehensive business and market analyses before entering foreign holdings. These analyses were made by both internal experts and independent, internationally renowned external consultants. The risks identified in the business and market analyses have been assessed as in the past and it has been fully informed about them.” – In my view, there is a sharp contradiction. The second point: They criticise the lack of information from the management of the Supervisory Board in the Court of Auditors report. In turn, the Ministry's answer: “The Supervisory Board of VERBUND AG was established in its 325th anniversary. Meeting held on 20 October. No information available on February 2006. There is no misinformation or lack of information. Rather, the following risks were presented to the Supervisory Board on the basis of documents that are available to the Court of Auditors (...)” – and so on. I would be really pleased if we could bring in some information and get an opinion from you. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e30046	The next item is Mrs Dr. Moser's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e30067	Madam President. Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Your remarks were very euphemistic. The Court of Auditors report fully criticises these foreign investment investments in the link between 2008 and 2012. And half a billion – 580 million – losses, that's not a cardboard handle! With regard to the dispute raised by the previous speaker – risk analysis before, precise market analysis, a view of the legal situation on the ground – please, I give the Court of Auditors a right of criticism. The answer of the ministry and, in part, I say, Mr Frizberg in the committee is also somewhat euphemistic and cover-up. The fact is: One has entered in the phase of liberalisation of the electricity market, in the phase where France used to be relatively low electricity prices, in France with an investment of €503 million – I'm going to see how to quote it correctly. In a subsidiary one has invested, where it was quite clear that it is not legally possible in France that this French subsidiary is reported to the mother in Austria with then Austrian joint venture. This does not allow for French law. The VERBUND in Austria did not know at all what is really going on in this participation with this subsidiary in France – how the price development is how the retail business develops. - And that was negative. One has entered a market that is traditionally regarded as very national. France is therefore very concerned about its own businesses and does not allow investors to get to the train as quickly as possible or it is difficult to claim themselves there. All this has been known by the association and has nevertheless made this investment. – It went beyond that. Finally, one, two years ago, the last participations in the Poweo were finally placed ad acta and written off. Yeah, the milk's spilled. Business has failed. The management failure is obvious. All of this is quoted as ‘entrepreneurship risk’. Indeed, corporate risk affects shareholders, and one of the main shareholders or the main shareholder is the Republic, the taxpayers are taxpayers. - Yes, half a billion down! Locker's done this. In Italy a lot has also been lowered. In Turkey, one was lucky to be able to exchange the shares there with the E.ON hydropower plants in Bavaria. That was the luck of all foreign investment. Everything else is a fiasco, just a disaster in France. Now comes the Clou: The Court of Auditors recommends that the Court of Auditors consider: Have the managers in the top area, Haider was at work at the time, really acting responsibly and taking into account all that was necessary in share law? I already know today that if you give the opinion to the WU in Austria, then it comes out: entrepreneurial risk, you can't do anything, no legal consequences. I mean, that's where we're asked as legislators. We need to change the law on shares so that at last the entrepreneurial risk is defined differently. We as legislators are also required to put a better participation management of the Republic on professional legs. We are also sitting in the Supervisory Boards, with state commissioners – we know this from the Hypo Alpe Adria – or Republic representatives. I mean, they're going to sleep with us! We are sometimes misinformed as a representative of the Republic or are being hunted into the bockshorn. I'm not there, I'm just getting it described over a corner. The Court of Auditors is also proposing – I have now put a parliamentary question – that Mr Mahrer, the Secretary of State, is well pleased to install professional participation management not only in connection, but also in other undertakings, so that the interests of the Republic and the taxpayers are better preserved and finally ends with this half-billion reduction. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e30125	Reported as follows: Mrs Schenk. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e30147	Madam President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, the Court of Auditors reports are sure that it will not be uninteresting and fad at any later hour, as the previous words have shown. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jarolim.]] In my speech, I refer to the chapter “Court of Country Contributions to Prevent and Eliminate Disaster-related Damages”. As a result, the Court of Auditors has examined that deficiencies have been identified. I would like to sum up briefly; these shortcomings can be applied to almost all or many reports. It is spoken of the fragmentation of the competences, there is no overall overview. It is also a federalism problem that the Court of Auditors is facing. – I quote from the report: “The settlement of the federal grants to municipalities was carried out by the country, which, however, did not carry out a thorough examination of compliance with the eligibility requirements. Thus, contrary to the BMF’s requirements, some municipalities reported only damage in place of actual expenditure, without the resultant corrections from the country.” So this, ladies and gentlemen, is a plausible example of what the Court of Auditors has found here: another example of division of competence, where the Court of Auditors has repeatedly called for simplification and implementation. On the subject of disaster protection, I would like to say one more thing at this point, because it is also very important in recent days and weeks to address this, especially if you look at the financial resources of the Federal Government, the police. There's been savings. The federal army is almost killed. There are no more off-road vehicles, no fuel. I wonder how to use a disaster there. And at the police there are now a lot of overtime costs for refugee care. In this context, I have just mentioned this and I want to become concrete now, we should also consider redefining disaster protection, in view of the flow of refugees. It's not just thousands, it's hundreds of thousands on us. And if I can remember: It has already been called out in Germany – in Germany disaster protection is otherwise regulated, that is clear to me – because unbearable humanitarian conditions exist, precisely because of the large flow of refugees. Ladies and gentlemen! This is a problem that we also need to deal with. The Court of Auditors has given rise to this. We will also deal with this issue tomorrow in the special session, because this problem is only at the beginning, and there is still a lot to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e30189	Reported as follows: Mrs Mag. Greiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e30211	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! I refer briefly to the report on VERBUND International GmbH. We've heard a lot. The aim of the review was to assess the corporate strategy, the business models in the three core markets of France, Italy and Turkey, with around 20 other investments at the time. But the subject of the review was these three core markets. How did the VERBUND operate? – He invested in the gas business. They've made high cash expectations. What was the Group's strategic goal? – The aim was to achieve growth due to liberalisation in foreign markets. Only briefly to the three core markets: In Italy, one was a minority in the bodies, in Turkey it was quite well done in the form of a joint venture, but in France one entered a model of participation that was extremely problematic. Why was it trouble-responsible? – There were difficulties with the obligation of confidentiality with the French partner. This is handled very restrictively there and – let me compare – can be roughly equated by the restriction from the banking secret in Liechtenstein. The restrictions on French share rights in general and the lack of separation between the institutions have made the supervisory obligation extremely difficult. What were the basic criticisms of the Court of Auditors? – This was first and foremost the lack of market analyses, partly very, very sparsely available. A lot of money has been invested and very little participation has been obtained. And a very massive criticism: Despite the risks identified, the growth strategy has been maintained. The recommendations are based on the fact that, in the case of foreign expansions, it is essential to prepare market analyses accordingly, with a risk assessment and risk assessment, and above all, it is necessary to outline an exit scenario in advance. What are the results of the recommendations? . We have heard from the Court of Auditors that, as a result of the re-establishment of the former ÖIAG, the current ÖBIB, it is planned to establish a generally valid participation control, a truly effective and related to all participations. This would be a prerequisite for avoiding such developments in the future, especially in the case of foreign expansions. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e30248	Next, Mr Magistrate. Of course. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e30271	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers! We are discussing today the Court of Auditors' report, which deals, among other things, with the structural reform of the District Courts, which was started by the Ministry of Justice in 2012. On the one hand, the aim was to reduce the number of district courts, but on the other hand, a minimum number of four courts should ensure better utilization, specialisation of judges, better service, higher quality and also more security. In the federal states of Lower Austria, Upper Austria and Styria, the structural reform has already been implemented and the number of district courts has been reduced from 82 to 56. The service has already been significantly improved by the partially completed establishment of service centres for citizens. These centres are already intended to serve as a contact point for easy-to-use concerns such as insight into the basic book, insight into the company's book, warning complaints and appointment notices. Higher quality, in turn, is to be achieved by ensuring that judges can build up appropriate expertise in their field of expertise by focusing on a number of disciplines. There is more security through the installation of safety locks in larger units, which unfortunately become more and more necessary. In its report, the Court of Auditors praises the efforts made to save the district courts, but, of course, it also criticises them. In the future, other criteria for further reforms will be used in addition to the minimum number of judges. These are the population in the court proceedings, the area per district court and the business case as well as the number of proceedings. I am entirely of the opinion of our Minister of Justice, who believes that further restructurings should not lead to a blow in the district courts. Especially the district courts as the lowest level of legal protection fulfil an important task and should and should be easily accessible to citizens. In this context, I believe that hearing rights of the countries are not a traditional federal instrument, but an example of the inclusion and identification of local circumstances, which, of course, also constitute an essential criterion. In the course of a further implementation and continuation of structural reforms, I also see the opposition parties calling on the Party's glasses to be removed in the case of larger projects within the meaning of the citizens and to introduce some laws requiring a qualified majority, as has happened in the extension of the appeals beyond the borders of the district. Together, the obstacles to a transitional law from 1920 could be overcome.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e30318	Next, Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e30339	Madam President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The Court of Auditors report on quality assurance in Salzburg's hospitals, in the Several hospitals in the country of Salzburg paid particular attention to infection monitoring, the bug reporting system, the operating security checklists, performance-related structural quality criteria and so on. Mr President, I would like to ask you the following. You write in your final recommendation: “The Land of Salzburg did not make a recommendation and partially implemented a recommendation. The SALK – the country’s hospitals – implemented “three and one partially of four revised recommendations. The KH Schwarzach implemented five and one partially of six revised recommendations. The KH Hallein – was a little bit more delicate – “successed four and four of eight revised recommendations. ” I would be interested in what periods of time – because these are key factors that concern the safety of patients, especially as regards the operating checklists and the like – as to what distance it is about, what measures you take and, above all, how the reminder of the hospitals looks at the fact that these measures are actually being implemented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e30372	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Auditors to take note of this report III-111 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. [[22:25:38]] 14. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors’ report Series Bund 2009/8 (III-3/794 d.b.) 15. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors’ report Series Bund 2015/7 (III-171 and zu III-171/795 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e30425	We shall now proceed to Agenda items 14 and 15, on which the debate will be held under one. There was no oral reporting. I call Mr Mayer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e30452	Madam President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Ladies and gentlemen! I have two reports on the Court of Auditors in the near future. One is very short, from 2009, when it comes to the regional authorities’ financial instruments with the focus on federal government. The report, which was mentioned in advance, was prepared after 2008 – that is, after the banking crisis, but still before the giant scandal in Salzburg. It explains in detail how the derivative transactions have developed. While the federal government had already implemented it in the 1980s, the countries and cities were also committed to the restructuring of the debt portfolio of derivative financing from 2001 onwards. instruments. The use of derivative financial operations, such as swaps or foreign exchange-term transactions, has made the financial departments increasingly more complex. One of the most serious mistakes was that before entering these risk-rich business areas, neither sufficient quality personnel – speak professionals – nor appropriate organizational requirements were created. The consequences of this have been dramatically highlighted by most of the criminal activities in Salzburg two years later, because if derivative transactions are made, they may, in our opinion and in the Court of Auditors' opinion, be used exclusively for security purposes. In Salzburg exactly the opposite was the case. Overall, the countries – which seems to me to be an interesting aspect – have taken an eight-fold higher risk than the federal government. The value at risk, expressed as a percentage of the total debt, was up to eight times higher in 2007 in the countries, maximum value Salzburg, once more at 41 percent, than the comparable risk value of the federal government at 5 percent. It is a pleasure that the Minister of Finance has been able to explain to the Court of Auditors that in the meantime all – I have only looked through some – 22 recommendations from the Court of Auditors have been implemented. - That's what it's supposed to be. I hope that the countries will also be responsible for this. The second report, which I would like to draw up, is that on the issue of the liability limits of the countries and municipalities. There is nothing left to be desired from the report on clarity. The sum of the liabilities is known: In 2012, it was €70.4 billion, while the countries set a liability limit of €30.6 billion, and they even charged only €19.4 billion to the limits of liability. I am also saving myself some details due to the time, but would like to invite you most cordially, who is interested in looking at this, because no one federal country, except Tyrol, has applied the limits of liability or risk assessments with 17 different areas. This is indeed worth it, also for the discussion in the countries. These are pages 66/67. I would like to conclude by saying that we have to do everything – and I am pleased that the Minister of Finance has also hit the same horn as our Budget and Financial Spokesman, as well as the ÖVP representatives, in order to eliminate the existing transparency. I would therefore like to say once again that both the ban on speculation and the limits on liability should be lifted in the constitutional order. We also need the comparability of all the local authorities, federal authorities, countries and municipalities. I am convinced, and this also confirms a pilot project in a small town in Burgenland, and the problem of double accounting for smaller communities is also solvable. Finally, because it brings a problem that I am discussing most accurately to the point, I would like to address claim 5 from the Court of Auditors' recommendations – and this could also be the basis for a possible joint request from the Committee on Budgets and the Committee on the Court of Auditors – which deals with the overall limit of liability. I do not give up the quotation for reasons of time. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e30512	Next word reported: Mr Gahr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e30534	Madam President. Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The Court of Auditors report on the limits of liability of the countries and In total, communities show great differences and transparency. Only the countries of Tyrol and Upper Austria show exceptions here and essentially adhere to the defined limits of liability. These limits of liability, which are laid down in the Austrian Stability Pact and which are mandatory, differ in many areas, a general government liability limit has not been established, nor has there been a uniform procedure in determining the limits of liability. This led to a total of 17 different limits of liability over the countries and municipalities. There were differences in the basis of investigation, in the methods of investigation, in the scope of design and, above all, in the periods. The Court of Auditors has made a number of points in this critical report, saying that the limits of liability should be drawn up in a uniform manner in order to be able to compare a target achievement. It should be defined which potential obligations are affected by the obligation to issue certificates. There should be an overall ceiling of liability, derived from the federal, state and local authorities. There should be uniform procedures for infringements. Mr Mayer has already said that there is an example here that there has been a deviation from 30.6 to 70.4 billion in the city of Vienna. Overall, however, the discussion in the Committee and the current situation have shown that we need a common procedure here. The Federal Minister Schelling has already stated in the Committee that there are intensive negotiations, there are talks with the countries, a working group has been set up. I think we should then consider what is reasonable, what we can achieve in the negotiations with the countries. There are currently different ideas. One wants to achieve that through Article 15a agreements, the Court of Auditors and the opposition also called for a change in the financial constitution. Overall, I think this report is quite valuable in order to achieve clarity, comparability and unity here and thus meet the criteria of the Stability Pact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e30574	Mr Angerer spoke in favour of an actual correction. I would like to draw your attention to the rules of business. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e30598	Madam President. Mr Mayer has claimed that there is agreement between ÖVP and SPÖ and the Minister that a single budgetary law is to be decided and that the federal, state and local authorities are given uniform funding rules. On the contrary, it is true that in the last Budget Committee a legislative proposal on this matter was postponed by the two government parties.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e30626	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Rossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e30647	Madam President. Mr President. Two very up-to-date reports have been presented, one, as already mentioned, is already far below and concerns the 2002 to 2007 review years. At the time, however, the Court of Auditors was critical of the fact that not only the federal government, but above all two federal states, Burgenland and Salzburg, are making derivative transactions without the same basic business as in-time. In other words, that such derivative transactions served not for security purposes but for speculation. And nothing happens until the scandal has come to light in Salzburg. The Court of Auditors report criticises or rather reveals that, of course, the federal government has also speculated that the federal government with so-called cash strengthenrs has fallen heavily on its nose in 2007. The risk potential that was located was 380 million, until today a loss of more than 290 million has occurred. That is, the trip of the federal government, the Federal Finance Agency, to the world of highly speculative businesses has been one that has come to very expensive the taxpayers. But the federal government has taken its consequences and has now set up a risk management in the Federal Finance Agency, which is State of the Art. This has at least been attested to by the university professor Stefan Pichler at the meeting of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. But can one claim the same from the countries? I say: No, no, no, Why not? Two years ago, we negotiated a ban on speculation, anchored in the federal constitution, accompanied by a single household. Conditions have come only an article-15a agreement on a speculation ban – signed, but never decided by the country days. However, it has been implemented by different countries, but each country has implemented it differently in its own way, not comparablely. And three federal states have not implemented this at all: Burgenland, Styria and Carinthia. In other words, the report presented by the Court of Auditors in 2009 is still an extremely up-to-date one. What do we learn from this? And what do we learn from the second report – that is, from the second report – where it is implemented through Article 15a agreements that the Stability Pact has committed countries and communities to establishing limits of liability? We learn that not only the ban on speculation has been implemented differently, we learn from the limits of liability and the implementation of the same, that there have also been very different implementations there. There is no uniform limit of liability, there are 18 legal acts, there are 17 upper limits of liability, each federal state has determined this somewhat differently, not by a uniform method. Some people thought: Extradivided societies – after all, what do we have to take this into the limits of liability? We don't need it! Although it is explicitly provided for in Article 13 of the Stability Pact. And, and, and, and, and! The list could be continued even longer. I am with Mr Mayer, who said that this report is a very readable one, because he shows that 15a agreements do not lead to uniformity being achieved in order to achieve transparency. Why not? There are precisely the needs to bring about voting requirements, there is inconsistency, there is watering up, there are delays, there is simply no uniformity. And because there is no uniformity, there is no transparency either. If, last week, both in the Committee on Budgets and in the Committee on the Court of Auditors, we have now discussed a uniform budgetary law and similar budgetary rules, I can only draw one conclusion from these two reports: It must be a regulation, exclusively a regulation that does not re-establish Article 15a agreements. The present draft, presented by the Minister of Finance – I emphasize: by the Minister of Finance, in agreement with the countries, or on the call of the countries – is one which sets out parts of this uniform accounting system in a regulation, other parts in a 15a agreement, out of concern, the Constitutional Court could abolish parts of it. The Court of Auditors has a different position. The Court of Auditors says that the existing system in the Financial Constitution is sufficient to allow for two acts to be taken in order to regulate everything in the regulatory framework. But the Minister of Finance here is obviously how the Minister of Finance in 2013, when it came to the ban on speculation, once again went to the knees in front of the countries. If we have a transparent... [[Abg. Fekter: That was already in committee! ...!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Yes, already in committee, but has it been decided? Do we have a single household? I know, Mrs. Finanzminister out of office, I can still remember that you wanted to go further then, your efforts have been to continue until the call came from the West until Mr. Wallner put in his Njet. And this time it is not Mr Wallner, this time Mr Pröll's head of state, represented by the head of state, who was also available to us in the budget committee as a person who meant: No, if one did not make it as planned to give parts in a regulation and parts into a 15a agreement, that would contradict the country's budget autonomy, and if one changed the financial constitution in order to give everything into a regulation, it would probably also require an agreement from the Federal Council. – No, this approval of the Federal Council does not need it. What surprised me during this debate, both in the Committee on Budgets and in the Court of Auditors, is that despite the agreement on content, countries insist on implementing parts of it in an Article 15a agreement. In other words, they want to do nothing but anchor an agreement from 1974, the so-called Holy Blood Agreement, where they have guaranteed a right of participation in all matters of accounting, in a 15a agreement, and this unfortunately does not lead to the goal. If the countries do not begin to think of their power and to think in new patterns, we will never come up with solutions here. And if the Minister of Finance continues to kneel before the countries, we will never have a single, transparent budget in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e30692	Next word reported: Mr. Dr. Hable. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e30713	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! High house! The Court of Auditors' report on the limits of liability of the countries is, of course, very exciting because it shows with what kind of arbitrariness the countries set the limits of liability for themselves and with what tricks they are then dealing with their own limits of liability again. For me, top riders here are Carinthia, who have actually managed to claim they have no liability for banks – as if there were no Hypo Alpe-Adria. Liabilities Carinthia: zero. This way, of course, the world can be beautifully spoken. This shows the absolute need for it to be so urgent that it is a modern accounting system, a uniform accounting system. It is not only for the federal government, where we already have it, but also for the countries and communities to finally implement it in Austria. We can remember that a year ago, the Minister of Finance, Schelling, took up bold words and said he was going to adopt this regulation. If the countries do not go along, it does not matter, it will adopt this regulation. And he had the competence to do so. He shall have the power to impose, in agreement with the President of the Court of Auditors, a uniform budgetary law also for countries and communities. Well, what's the middle class after a year? The regulation has not yet been adopted, and it is also quite clear why: because the Minister of Finance Schelling, who has acted with courage, as all the previous finance ministers have been slowed down, is slowed down by blockiers in person by national leaders who have had a very interesting idea in this context. You have also born the exciting idea: Why not take advantage of the opportunity and question the competence of the Minister of Finance to establish a uniform accounting system by means of a regulation in agreement with the Court of Auditors at all times – and by then putting it into a 15a agreement, that is, an agreement between the Federal Government and countries, which will also cement the mutual blockade for all eternity? That's quite unfrozen. First of all, this would create a bureaucratic monster, which would take the whole length of time, because all of this has to be implemented by the countries – we know that countries do not always implement their 15a agreements – and, as has already been said, question the competence of finance ministers and the Court of Auditors at all. It cannot be so, therefore I also address the appeal to you, Mr President of the Court of Auditors: Voices Please do not agree to a regulation by the Minister of Finance if it is linked to an Article 15a agreement! This would only set up the mutual blockade, so that we would never create a modern and uniform accounting system in that country. At the same time, I would like to appeal to Minister of Finance Schelling to stand in his courageous words not to be stopped, in particular not to be held out by the national leaders of his own party, and his competence, which he has, and to prescribe a uniform modern accounting system, simply because it is correct in content and because it is necessary for taxpayers to be responsible. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e30764	Reported as follows: Mrs Schenk. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e30786	Madam President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! One thing, I think, can be said here in summarizing what these reports show and what the discussion and speeches of the previous speakers have also shown: Article 15a agreements are not an appropriate means of transparency, for uniformity. This is clear from this report and also from the statements made by the previous speakers, which I can largely support in terms of content. The topic of upper limits of liability, this report is a wax for domestic fiscal policy, ladies and gentlemen. You can say that right here and clearly so. My previous speakers have already mentioned the problem, the problem with the Heads of State or Government, the problem which, above all, Minister of Finance Schelling, has to be overcome here, if he proposes a new Article 15a agreement for a uniform budgetary law. And I would not like to abstain from the statement by the Vice-President of Lower Austria, Mr Financier Wolfgang Sobotka, who is trying to implement a uniform budgetary law for countries and communities by means of Article-15a. What surprise?- Oh, my God! It rejects a definition by constitutional change, as the Court of Auditors also wishes, and we wish to do so. And now it comes, ladies and gentlemen, Sobotka warns the Court of Auditors, whose President Josef Moser should not make politics. That's what it's all about, that's incredible! To put this to the President, it is really incredible what your vice-countryman is going to do, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] We all know here what the Court of Auditors is doing with its employees, how it looks at taxpayers and taxpayers and how it looks at the Austrians' money. Then to act with accusations here, just because you do not want to get through and block yourself and continue to hide, as has been clearly stated in the report on the upper limits of liability – I think President Moser will then also comment on it – can't be, ladies and gentlemen, and certainly not with us. Finally, I would like to thank the Court of Auditors and his team for their excellent work and for these excellent reports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e30843	The next item is Mrs Schittenhelm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e30864	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! It is indeed true that we are often annoyed when there are reports from the Court of Auditors that go back years. But in the specific case – “Financing instruments of the regional authorities with a focus on the federal government” – it has been worth looking at again, and I join in thanking the President of the Court of Auditors and his staff. They have worked out these major and difficult topics excellently. And they have also achieved effect! [[Complementary of the Abg. Aubauer.]] For it may be said that this report by the Court of Auditors from 2009 has no relevance – but it has relevance, for the present and also for the future. And especially by the fact that the report is a few years behind, we can also say: What has changed in recent years? What measures have been implemented by the Court of Auditors? And today we can say they've all been implemented! Nevertheless, I would also like to say that at a good time – before the economic and financial crisis – the so-called speculation operations were very lucrative. I do not wish to mention that between 2002 and 2007, the use of derivative transactions will cost interest by €3,024 billion. (i) to be reduced; (ii) to be reduced; (iii) to be reduced; That's not something. In the same way, however, a reduction in the share of foreign currency in financial debt was also made by an average of five percentage points. Yes, there have, of course, been threatening losses, in an order of 380 million, but – and you have to say that again – here the Austrian Federal Finance Agency has simply responded correctly and quickly. It has put in place appropriate measures, has been in contact with the Court of Auditors, and they have been jointly launched, I say, successful rescue action. It is also important to stress that in the years 1998 to 2008 the federal government was able to make a net profit of €685 million by the imposition of cash resources. – But be it, you have learned from it, there will be no more speculation transactions in the future. All the Court of Auditors' recommendations have not only been implemented but implemented effectively. I only take two out, because we were also involved, namely: First, the four-eye principle 2010 was enshrined in the Federal Finance Act – which is one of the most essential and, from my point of view, most important measures – and second, the credit risk guidelines were revised with the involvement of the internal revision of ÖBFA and WU Wien. It was the right step at the right time. We have very strict rules, and today we could say that we could do a lot of money again with small speculation shops. Nevertheless, at this time, as we find it today – economic and financial crises – it needs, as Professor Pichler said, to be perfectly right, a stability-oriented, long-term assumption of ÖBFA. This is also happening at the moment, and guarantee for this kind of financial operations is our Minister of Finance today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e30931	Mrs Gusenbauer-Jäger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e30952	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! We are discussing today the Court of Auditors' report on the limits of liability. The wild growth in liability limits for the countries has led us to the financial disaster in Carinthia. We need a budgetary right for the local authorities, all of which is intertwined; it needs comparability and transparency. Of course, this also means a change for our communities. However, the production of cost-truth will also provide a guarantee of planning, and it will fulfil the legitimate wish of citizens for greater transparency. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e31003	This is the next Mrs Gessl-Ranftl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e31024	Madam President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! High house! As only a minute's speaking time is available to me, of course I will not be able to address the limits of liability for countries and municipalities more precisely. This report has not given a good witness to the countries with the exception of Upper Austria and Tyrol. This report, as mentioned several times today, is worth reading and also shows the different rules of the countries. The Court of Auditors criticises that the establishment of the liability limits of each local authority has been left to exist. This also led to the existence of 17 upper limits of liability for the countries and municipalities. For me, it is essential that there are uniform rules and more transparency in the future, especially in identifying liability risks. Rules must be set up which also grasp, as uniformly determined limits. The President of the Court of Auditors also mentioned in the Committee that there will be a follow-up review in 2017 – I very much welcome this – so that we can see what recommendations have already been implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e31056	The President of the Court of Auditors, Dr Moser, spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e31078	Madam President. High house! Even though time has already gone a long way and three reports with new audit results are on the agenda today, I would like to point out that these reports, which have been discussed today, are showing up more and more the problems in the cooperation of the local authorities, or also, where reforms should take place. Considering the report on the upper limits of liability – and this report was discussed in detail not only in the Committee but also today in the context of the debate – this report shows that we absolutely need a new accounting system, which is appropriate to present the true financial situation of the individual local authorities, and is also able to ensure that liabilities are uniformly identified so that the objective of a macroeconomic balance can also be achieved. Considering the report on the financial instruments, this report proves that it is necessary to introduce a single ban on speculation, in order to ensure that financial and investment instruments or risk management are uniformly presented, which is still not the case until now. Considering the report on the comparison of the pensions of national officials, this report also shows that the harmonisation to which one has been known has still not been achieved and that the production of the right to benefits or generations has not yet been implemented, which is why harmonisation would be urgently recommended in this area too. Considering the report on the structural reforms of the district courts, the report suggests that reform itself should not be sufficient and that it should not be self-interest, but that reforms should be carried out in particular if this involves improving quality, optimising performance and, as far as possible, increasing the proximity of citizens. This has not been the case until now, because the transitional law of 1920 has concluded that in this case the countries must agree, which has led to political consensus and not reform needs being the focus. Considering the report on the granting of national contributions to prevent and eliminate disaster-related damage, the report also points out that: that the division of competence has led to different views or inefficiencies, at the same time to different situations of interest and to target conflicts, and that the different financing schemes have not been justified in substance and therefore belong to the fastest elimination. Considering the report on quality assurance measures in patient treatment, this report also shows that the optimal care of patients cannot be ensured through the maintenance of the sites, but only through the quality of the respective locations. Quality assurance also showed the urgent need for action. Considering the report relating to public enterprises, namely VERBUND International GmbH, this report also shows that a particular focus should also be placed on public use of public funds in the field of public enterprises. Considering the report on Attachés, where a comparison of the individual Federal Ministries was carried out, the report shows that the ten Federal Ministries which sent attachés were partly not comprehensible in the selection of sites for these attachés, and that most Ministries did not set objectives in terms of content, which also made it impossible to evaluate. That is to say, these reports clearly demonstrate the need for an increased perception of governance, especially at the federal level. These reports demonstrate the need for increased control in the payment of public funds. These reports demonstrate the need for improved coordination between the Federal Government and countries, but also within the federal framework, and show the need for a more economical approach to public enterprises, as well as a need for reform. In connection with the comments made by Mr Angerer, who addressed the VERBUND International, it should be noted that, from 2008 to 2010, the VERBUND achieved a negative result from the ordinary business activity of 579.73 million. At the same time, the Court of Auditors had to point out that by 2012 EUR 2.3 billion of own resources had been allocated by the VERUND for the investments in France, Italy and Turkey, of which 24.6 million were recovered from Italy and 109 million from sales or cash dividends from France by the end of 2012. The Court of Auditors had to note that, while there are, in principle, large-scale decision-making bases in the field of commitment, there have been insufficient or insufficient risks to a commitment, including, for example, the risk of alternative scenarios, or a presentation of the financial impact of liberalisation or a completely ineffective liberalisation. – This is carried out on page 112 of the report under text number 30.4. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] As regards the Supervisory Board: It was also true that the Supervisory Board was not informed in detail enough about the risks that might be associated with a lack of liberalisation, risks which have also become striking in the last consequence and have also contributed to the negative outcome. I hope to have answered these questions too. The last question asked was by Mr Doppler: What does the Court of Auditors do to implement the recommendations? . I would like to point out that after the report has been published, we are conducting a demand process. This will be published and brought to your attention. A year later, we will carry out a follow-up review, which will also be brought to your attention. That is to say, it is therefore up to the public and also to the legislative bodies, including their emphasis, to bring their authority of control in a way that these recommendations are also implemented. How important this is, it has also been addressed today. With regard to the financial instruments, the Federal Government has acted and, at the same time, has developed new guidelines for more careful handling in the area of financing, which has certainly been positive and has taken away risks from the Federal Government. I therefore hope that, as in the past, it will be possible, in the interaction between the legislation and the Court of Auditors, to focus on a more economical approach and, at the same time, to increase sustainability. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e31166	Thank you, Mr. Dr. Moser. – No one has been reported to do this anymore. The debate is closed. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. Vote on agenda item 14: Request by the Court of Auditors to take note of this report III-3 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Agenda item 15: Proposal from the Court of Auditors to take note of this report III-171 and III-171 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this notice to give a sign. – This is also unanimously adopted. [[23:03:49]] 16. Point Reimbursement of a proposal for the appointment of a replacement member of the Constitutional Court
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e31227	We're coming to the 16th. Agenda item. It is the request of the honourable Member, Mag. Musiol on the conduct of a debate pursuant to § 59 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure. I shall vote on it immediately and seek a sign from those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request. – There was consensus on how this should be done. – Was that unanimous, Dr. Dägele? Thank you. This is a unanimous decision. We are going into the debate. There is agreement between the political groups to limit this debate to a round of speakers for 3 minutes. Mr Wittmann was the first to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e31285	Mr President. High house! I will return a proposal to Dr. Angela Julcher. Ms. Julcher was one of five candidates who applied as a substitute for the Constitutional Court. It is not a decision against the four others, but a decision for Mrs. Dr. Julcher. I should like to take note of Mrs. Julcher's truly impressive CV: She worked as a scientific assistant at the Verwaltungsgerichtshof from 2001 to 2003. From 2006 to 2010, she was a member of the independent environmental Senate, from 2003 to 2007 also in the department V/1 Constitutional legislative and administrative procedures, she was head of the department V/5, she was in the Federal Chancellor's Office Constitutional Service, and she has been a judge at the Administrative Court for four years now. So this is really an impressive CV. Ms Julcher is also a relatively young new member of the Constitutional Court, and she increases the quota of women within the Constitutional Court. [[Abg. Fekter: And female!]] So it really fulfils all the conditions: first impeccable CV, second highly qualified, and third, it increases the female rate in the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e31323	Next, Mr Magistrate. Nice to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e31344	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The Constitutional Court is without a doubt, in addition to its role as guardian of the Constitution in Austria, since 1919, something like a mediator and an arbitrator on controversial issues since its foundation. Manfried Welan has described his role as a specific breakdown of disputed issues. I believe that it is only acceptable to do so, even if one looks at the recent decisions of the Constitutional Court of Justice. That is why, I believe, it is a great responsibility that we too have here. We really only have the best, most competent and qualified judges to order here. We will be just with this proposal, I think, and I ask for it to be adopted.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e31378	Next, Mr Magistrate. Darmann speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e31399	Mr President. High house! It is common practice here in the House to have a hearing to be held in order to involve all political groups in the reimbursement of a proposal for a main member of the Constitutional Court. We liberals have now called for the holding of such a hearing, such a hearing, in the reimbursement of a proposal for a replacement member. Unfortunately, SPÖ and ÖVP have not complied with this requirement. Without being able to speak to Mrs. Dr. Julcher the skills, but also without wishing to agree on them: A positive decision in the sense of a prejudgment made solely under red and black is for us freedom of movement in the It is not fair to be represented in this way, because, in our opinion, a reimbursement of a proposal would really require a hearing and therefore a proper hearing, a procedure. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e31431	Next, Mrs Mag. Musiol. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e31453	Mr President. High house! I am just as pleased as everyone here in the room that we can still hold this debate. We will come closer to this proposal, we will agree, but you have not made it easy for us. For we have also proposed this hearing, demanded, but unfortunately not received. It has certainly been selected with this candidate, as far as we can see from the documents, a very qualified woman, who, above all – and this is especially true of us Greens – brings expertise in the field of environmental law and also in the field of foreign law, which is of course very important these days. But we are always discussing orders, unless it is now by EGMR judges, whether it is from the Constitutional Court's main or replacement members, what the procedure should look like. At the time, we also made a joint committee statement on OPCAT, where we agreed that we will look at and discuss the procedure for these orders, and I am very sorry that we have not followed this practice that we have in the case of main members, because it is often the case that the next step is to become a head member for replacement members. This is therefore a preliminary decision – although not a final decision, because of the fact that it has to be elected and ordered recently – and all the more important are transparent, clear procedures. In this sense, I would like to recall our joint committee statement and appeal to the members of the Constitutional Committee that we should soon devote ourselves to this issue and look at how we want to ensure transparent and clear procedures in the various functions and positions. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e31480	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e31501	The fact that Dr. Angela Julcher is highly qualified is undisputed, because not only is she a judge in the administrative court, she started her professional career in particular at the Hans Kelsen Institute and was in the Constitutional Service and also in the Human Rights Advisory Board. It is a shame that she did not have the opportunity to give herself a hearing in a committee of the Constitutional Committee, or whatever it is called. We NEOS used the option and called them themselves, asked them if she had time to come to the club. You have to say, the election proposal came yesterday in the morning. It was a coincidence that it went out exactly, it was just before our club meeting. We were impressed by her and also by her qualifications. But it is actually absurd that this had to be initiated by ourselves in the short time. I assume that neither the Green Club nor the FPÖ Club could have been brought together so quickly by most Members. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] Self-reliance is important, Mr. Wöginger, but nevertheless, in such an important decision – and this is the case here; Mr Schönegger has addressed it – with such an important social policy decision – because there is also a hearing going on, as a replacement member of the Constitutional Court, or it is the springboard for a permanent member. Again: These are important social policy decisions. The Constitutional Court is, after all, the court that is in charge of the constitution in Austria, and it cannot, in fact, be held here only with the argument: It has always been so, we have never done otherwise!, continuing to insist that you do not carry out any hearing. Then: It's about transparency, it's about information, and there's a hearing really is the minimum. We will, because we are convinced that Mrs. Angela Julcher is a good choice, nevertheless, but once again it is expressly stated: Let's have a hearing next time! It's really in the service of the thing. And it's incredibly helpful if the candidates also have the chance to introduce themselves. Mrs. Dr. Julcher himself said she would have liked to come and would have put herself in a general hearing. I therefore believe that this is the right way for such measures.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e31553	The list of speakers is exhausted. We shall now proceed to the vote. There is a motion for a resolution by the honourable Member Mag. Andreas Schiederand Dr. Reinhold Lopatkavor. He's on Mrs. Angela Julcher. Since there is only one election proposal, I will be in accordance with § 87 para. 7 in conjunction with § 66 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure shall not vote against them, but shall be cast off from the seats by raising them. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to follow this proposal and give their approval to an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Thus, the proposal for the appointment of a replacement member of the Constitutional Court to Mrs. Dr. Angela Julcher. The agenda is exhausted. [[23:14:01]] Vote on request for a deadline
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e31614	We now come to the vote on the request by Mr Kitzmüller, ladies and gentlemen, to the Family Committee for Reporting on Amendment 1224/A(E) by Mr Kitzmüller, colleagues on the adaptation of family allowances for children abroad to the respective cost of living. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. [[23:14:35]] Reading of a part of the Official Protocol
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e31647	I have a written request from 20 Members to read the proposed version of the Official Protocol on Agenda items 1, 2 and 4 so that these parts are deemed approved at the end of the sitting. I shall therefore proceed in this way and read the corresponding parts of the Official Protocol. ‘Official Protocol of 91. National Council meeting of 23. September 2015 TO point 1: Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 1295/A by Mr Mag. Andreas Schieder, Dr. Reinhold Lopatka, Dr. Eva Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues concerning a Federal Constitutional Act on the accommodation and distribution of aliens in need of assistance and protection (792 of the Supplements) TO point 2: Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 1296/A by Mr Otto Pendl, Mr Werner Amon, Mr MBA, Mr Enrights concerning a Federal Act amending the Foreign Police Act 2005 (793 of the Supplements) There is a request from 20 Members to vote in favour of Supplement I/1. Mr Strache, fellow Members, tabled the request in accordance with § 84 GOG for a referendum pursuant to Article 43 B-VG Supplement 1/2. There is a request from 20 Members to vote in favour of Supplement I/2. Deputies Mag. Schieder, Dr. Lopatka, Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek, Dr. Scherak, colleagues and colleagues are submitting the amendment Supplement 1/1. Mr Pendl, Mr Amon, Mr MBA, colleagues, tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 2/1 EA). Deputies Mag. Meinl-Reisinger, ladies and gentlemen, tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 1/3 EA). Deputies Mag. Korun, ladies and gentlemen, put the amendment to Supplement 2/2. Votes: To TO point 1: The draft law, in accordance with the Committee's proposal in 792 of the Supplements, takes account of the amendment to Supplement 1/1 in the presence of the constitutional number of Members in second reading (for which S, V, G, N) – with the required two-thirds majority – and at the third reading in a natural vote Votes cast: 167 Of which yes-voices: 123 No votes: 43 invalid: 1 with the required two-thirds majority accepted Adjournment of the voting session between 15.22 a.m. and 15.27 p.m. The request pursuant to § 84 GOG for a referendum pursuant to Article 43 B-VG Supplement 1/2 shall be voted in a natural vote Votes cast: 166 Of which yes-voices: 43 No votes: 123. (The sitting was suspended Adjournment of the voting part-session from 15.32 a.m. to 15.37 p.m. The motion for a resolution Supplement 1/3 EA is rejected (G, N). To TO point 2: The amendment Annex 2/2 is rejected (for this reason G). The draft law, in accordance with the Committee's proposal in 793 of the second and third reading supplements, will be adopted by a majority vote (for which S, V, F, N, T, A). The motion for a resolution Supplement 2/1 EA was adopted unanimously. TO point 4: Report of the Transport Committee on the Government template (775 of the Supplements): The Federal Act amending the road transport regulations in 1960 (27. StVO-Novelle) (786 of the supplements) There is a demand for separate vote supplement IV/2. There is a demand for separate vote supplement IV/3. Mr Pock, ladies and gentlemen, tabled the amendment supplement 4/1. The vote will take place at The amendment Annex 4/1 is rejected (G, N). The draft law, in accordance with the Committee's proposal in 786 of the Supplements, shall be adopted unanimously in a separate vote, in part by a majority vote (for which S, V, T) and at third reading.’ Are there any objections to this version or the contents of those parts of the Official Protocol? - That's not the case. These parts of the Official Protocol are therefore applicable in accordance with section 51 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure as approved at the end of this sitting. [[23:19:40]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00091_d7e31820	I am still announcing that, at today's meeting, the self-employed applications were submitted 1307/A(E) to 1347/A. Questions 6523/J to 6580/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business communications and allocations, will be convened at 23.20 a.m., immediately following this meeting. This meeting is closed.
