ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e5010	Ladies and gentlemen, I shall open the 64. Meeting of the National Council. [[09:06:21]] Memories for the victims of a plane crash in the French Alps
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e5035	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We are all deeply shaken by the terrible plane crash that cost 150 people lives. Our deep compassion belongs to the families and the loved ones of the dead, and I am trying to raise up one minute from the seats in memory of these people. [[Those present rise from their places and spend some time in silent remembrance.]] - Thank you many times. [[Those present take their seats again.]] The Official Protocol of 63. Meeting of 18 March 1990 On 1 March 2015, he was appointed to the Parliamentary Board of Directors. For today's sitting as prevented, MEPs are reported Mag. Greiner, Lipitsch, Doppler, Singer, Dr. Reborn, Mag. Vavrik and Dr. Zinggl. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e5073	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following statement: The Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management Dipl.-Ing. Andrä Rupprechter is the Federal Minister for Families and Youth MMag. Dr. Sophie Karmasin, the Federal Minister for Justice Dr. Wolfgang Brandstetter is appointed by the Federal Minister for the Interior Mag. Johanna Mikl-Leiter and the Federal Minister for Europe, Integration and External Affairs Sebastian Kurz is represented by the Federal Minister for Finance Dr. Johann Georg Schelling. I announce that this meeting will be broadcast live from ORF 2 to 1 p.m. and from ORF III. [[09:08:27]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e5148	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: “Together Against Terror” First of all, Mr Amon, has spoken. I give it to him and draw attention to the fact that the speaking time is 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e5178	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Madam President, we have rightly called for our sympathy for the terrible events in the French Alps. I would like to join this, of course, but I would also like to ask your sympathy for the victims and family members of the victims of the incredible kidnapping or the killing of about 500 women and children who were committed yesterday in Damasak in Nigeria by the Terror Miliz Boko Haram – another act of inhuman cruelty, which has been committed on behalf of the terrorist organisation Islamic State and which requires our resistance, ladies and gentlemen. [[General condolences.]] This terror of the terrorist organization Islamic State is now omnipresent. Think of the incidents that have just taken place in Nigeria – this is not the first such event. Think of the cruel attack in Tunisia in the Bardo Museum, where 21 people have found death. Think of the attack on a Libyan oil field in which, among other things, an Austrian was taken hostage, or of the horrific attacks in Paris against the free expression of opinion and against Jewish institutions. We experience barbaric decapitations and attempted territorial expansions that happen with the intention of establishing a form of real state territory. The incredible actions of this fanatical, this insane terrorist organization, whose unfounded hatred and incomprehensible practices are directed first and foremost against Muslims and against our liberal, democratic and pluralist system, against the liberal rule of law, against our open societies and against general human rights, require a solidarity of the state community and require solidarity, ladies and gentlemen. Nor can this be a question – I say that clearly – of neutrality, because there can be no neutrality between criminals and victims in a rule of law. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Close cooperation – Mrs Mikl-Leiter, the Federal Minister, as I am grateful to you and all the other members of the government who make the most of their efforts – among the EU Member States and by the way of the whole free world and all the good people in order to formulate it carefully is more than necessary and necessary. In addition to cooperation at international level, we have also put in place in our country a wealth of measures which, I believe, were more than required. I am thinking of the major police action in November, which was both necessary and time-consuming and in which more than 1,000 officials and officials were employed. I am thinking of all the legal measures we have jointly adopted – terrorist symbols law, changes in citizenship law and border control law. Of course, every measure in itself is only a mosaic in the fight against this insanity, but it is important mosaics to take action against it. I am thinking of the intensive preparations and the open discussion process. I would also like to thank you very much, Mrs Federal Minister, for this open discussion process on the new state protection law, where all the security speakers of the parties represented in Parliament have been deeply involved in the debate, where we have jointly looked at appropriate measures in other countries, but where we have also invited publicly to discuss them. State protection should be used for its own citizens, and that is why we must do everything we can to prevent distrust against the protection of the state. These measures, as you have put them, and this procedure, Mrs Federal Minister, are correct and important in order to strengthen our confidence in our own state protection. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I am also thinking of the close cooperation between the Federal Ministry of the Interior and the Federal Ministry of Defence, which I consider to be extremely important – especially in the present phase – regarding police special situations. In this context, I believe, in a very correct way, that, by means of the assistance of military equipment which the police do not have or are not yet available, it is of course made available on the part of the National Defence Region in order to be able to act quickly and in the interests of citizens in the appropriate crisis situations. By the way, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to thank our police officers, especially these days, who at every hour hold their heads for our free and democratic principles, in the truest sense of the word. [[General condolences.]] Our respect is due to them, our thanks are due, our recognition is due to them. It is not natural to stand up daily and take care of security and order, ladies and gentlemen. I am also saying this in view of a debate which started a little bit in the last Committee on the Interior and which finds its continuation in the media, in the context of which the police are accused of attacks there and there, for example, on the basis of videos that have been spread. I warn very much about that, because of short sequences that can be seen in some videos in which you don't hear a sound or see a prehistory to make a judgment. [[Abg. Kickl: These are always the same!]] Of course, it also applies to every police officer and every police officer in every suspicion, first of all, the suspicion of innocence. It is difficult to judge by such images whether right or wrong has happened. In the case of more than 40 000 arrests we have a year, we should not break a police force on police officers, but it is the duty of independent justice to make such decisions. It must be proportionate, violence always applies according to the principle of Ultima Ratio, but first and foremost, police officers deserve our solidarity, and I would like to ask for it very consciously today. [[Congratulations with ÖVP, SPÖ, FPÖ and Team Stronach.]] By the way, there is an annual index of trust, which is collected. It is actually gratifying that our fire brigades and our police always compete for the top places in the trust of the population. In order to achieve this, ladies and gentlemen, we should also make an effort to ensure that we are, unfortunately, far away. So let us not point to others if we have not yet achieved this confidence! – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e5247	For a preliminary opinion, Mrs. Federal Minister Mag. Mikl's head of speech reported. Mrs Minister, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that your speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e5269	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen! Dear ladies and gentlemen on the visitor gallery and in front of the screens! I think it is important that we use this current hour to discuss an important topic – one that is This is a very big challenge for us on the part of the Interior, on the part of State Protection, namely the fight against extremism and the fight against terrorists. Werner Amon has already stressed: The threat is serious, the threat is worrying. The attacks in recent weeks and the events in recent days have shown us that none of us can guarantee 100% security to the population. When we look in our neighbouring countries towards Western Balkans, we know that the Western Balkans face similar challenges to Austria. That is why Foreign Minister Sebastian Kurz and I invited the interior and foreign ministers of the Western Balkans and the neighbouring EU countries to a joint conference focusing on the fight against the terrorists. Why did we do that? – I would like to explain this for three reasons. First, the danger posed by the jihadists is not only a matter of internal security, but also a matter of external security. Secondly, we know that there are links between the extremists in the Western Balkans and the extremists here in the European Union, including in Austria. The Balkan route, on which the jihadists are moving, is particularly challenging. Thirdly, we know that there are social problems – for economic, social or political reasons – and that such problems are always a good breeding ground for radicalisation. However important this issue is at European level, this Balkan conference was underlined by the presence of the EU Anti-Terrorist Commissioner de Kerchove and the EU Commissioner Avromopoulos, both of whom presented their views and practices and discussed them with the representatives of the Western Balkans. In particular, they stressed the importance of the close cooperation between the Western Balkans and the European Union in this area. We in Austria have been taking the threats posed by the terrorists seriously for a very long time and have repeatedly taken these measures in recent years. Here in Parliament in December last year some toughenings were made in the laws, including the revision of the citizenship law, the border control law and the symbol law, which prohibits the wearing and advertising of IS symbols or other terrorist symbols. What did the attacks, especially the attack in Paris, show us? – This attack makes it clear that we are dealing with a new type of perpetrator. They are perpetrators who use weapons of war, perpetrators who are well-trained and networked and use the Internet massively for radicalisation and the dissemination of terrorist content. Of course, it is important that police and state protection are not lagging behind, but are equipped to the best possible extent. In order to be able to address the dangers, we have launched a separate security package, which is a matter of being both logistical and human and technical in the state-of-the-art. As you know, we started to increase our state protection in the autumn and want to continue in the next few weeks and months. Of course, in addition to repression, we also need the entire area of prevention. The strategy must not be just one-dimensional, it must be comprehensive in the fight against terrorism. We need to be fully aware of this be that we have a social-political task ahead of us. That is why it is of course necessary for us to cooperate with other departments such as the Ministry of Family Affairs, the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. What does that mean in concrete terms? – In concrete terms, this means that our prevention officials will continue to play a crucial role in teacher training in the future, where it is particularly important to raise teachers’ awareness of the question of where radicalisation begins, how to recognize radicalisation and what one can do about it. We are working well with the Ministry of Education and with the teachers who represent very important references. Of course, we also need to cooperate with the providers of digital media, such as Google and YouTube, because we know that terrorist content can be found more on the Internet. It is simply important for us to remove such content from the web as soon as possible. Therefore, the possibility was created that those who discover terrorist content will immediately report to us at the mail address stopextremists@bmi.gv.at and send the video link to us, whereby we will immediately contact Google and YouTube. These video links and the content of the video are checked and removed from the network as soon as possible. That is, everyone and everyone can make such a contribution against radicalization. And I also ask here that all of us be very careful and give us such information as soon as possible. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, we have already pointed out before the Paris attacks that we need acute action in the field of state protection, that we need a new state protection law, because we are dealing with phenomena such as cybercrime, espionage or terrorism and extremism. That is why it is not surprising that we have already redefined a state protection law in our Government Convention and that the discussion on what new state protection should look like has already begun in April last year. We have put forward a very central question, namely: What do the people expect from their state protection? From the beginning, you Members, first and foremost the security spokespersons, were invited to a comprehensive and intensive discussion. We have also looked abroad at how state protection is put in place there and how control by state protection works in order to re-establish and integrate experience from abroad into the State Protection Act. What is the state protection law supposed to look like? - Just a very short feed. How does it look in the organizational field? – Of course, it is important to us to define clearly what the state protection is for and how it is organized. In particular, it is important that the state protection continues to be a security authority and not a secret service. It is also important for us to restrict the powers of BAT officials. Why? – Because at the moment, all police officers have the same powers, no matter if someone is a traffic police officer or an official in the state protection. It just needs a new definition. We want to limit sensitive powers to a small group in the protection of the state, which bears the responsibility. To the tasks: We are dealing with the defence of constitutional attacks, adding the tasks to the law on a tax basis. From the tasks to the power: Of course, there is a need for coordinated powers. In other words, the greater the danger, the greater the powers be in the field of investigation. What changes or what should change? – We want to be able to use private trustees according to the criminal code in order to obtain targeted information. It should also be possible, as in the criminal police field, to use registration systems in the field of state protection. These are very important powers which are to be applied there and which are only used with the O.K. of the Legal Protection Officer. They know that the legal protection officer's instrument has been particularly successful in recent years, especially for those affected by measures, and also for the population and employees themselves. So you see, it was a comprehensive discussion that we have held in recent months, which we will also be conducting in the next few days and weeks. I hope that in a few days with this draft law, we will be able to go into the review so that a consensus decision can be reached, because we are very aware of the sensitivity of the need for a balance between freedom and security that we need to create. In this sense, I should like to take the opportunity today to thank you as a Member of Parliament and, above all, the security spokespersons of all the political parties here in this Parliament for the really constructive cooperation and discussion over the last few months, and hope that we will create a new law of state protection in the consensus of all political parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e5384	I draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of all other participants at the current hour according to § 97a Abs. 6 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 5 minutes. As First of all, Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e5408	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and in front of the screens! This is a very serious issue, not only in Austria, but also in the rest of Europe and at the international level. I would like to start by following the words of the Federal Minister and thanking the security speakers very much. For weeks now, we have been trying to deal with this subject objectively and unagitatedly according to the seriousness of the situation. I wish, ladies and gentlemen, that we bring this difficult issue, which concerns the democracies of the civilized countries, about open societies, precisely in this constructive, objective form, with the necessary seriousness and without polemics. I believe that not only the state, but the citizens deserve this very easily and expect it from us. Let me address a few points that are very important to me personally. None of us had expected to be today, in the 21st century. In the 19th century, discuss incidents that one would actually have settled centuries ago. These topics will be delivered to us free house about international reporting in our living rooms. I believe that the state community as a whole and all the national states are invited to show a flag in the interests of the free world, of open societies, of democracy. I think the most important part from a national point of view is that we are trying to give young people a perspective. Good education policy, social policy and labour Market policy does not make it as easy as it is at present to inspire such inhumane actions, and we all do not understand that there are young people in the Western European countries who can be recruited to participate in these atrocities. Only, these preventive measures, even if they need to be put in place immediately, do not take immediate action. Therefore, of course, we have the task of implementing both legislative measures and organisational, purely administrative tasks. Let me just address a few points. – During the government negotiations, we immediately agreed that we have said that we want to align the so-called BAT with our own law in line with today’s times. I mean – and that has already been addressed by my two previous speakers – that state protection clearly has a large internal policy, but of course also an external policy component. I believe that in times like this, it is not only from an economic point of view, but also from the point of view of the process organization, that the two ministries concerned, including their specialists, are working hard to show the necessary implementation expertise at all times in the interests of our citizens, both in terms of internal security, i.e. police, as well as in terms of external security, i.e. the military. On this occasion, I would like to say the following – and I am pleased, Mr Amon, that you have said the same thing: Our colleagues – and I am now deliberately saying: both departments – are doing excellent work. Only too often, however, one case or another is used to turn the police – mostly the police – into a light they didn't deserve. I've often invited enough: Come along and take a look at the difficult service! – And I am not talking about terrorists yet, but only about what often happens at major events. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the Federal Government has taken very good steps in the last, but also in this GP, with the increase of staff, knowing that we need a new law for the protection of state, as far as the police are concerned, knowing that we cannot successfully deal with this issue with executive forces alone. We will have to use technology more and more, we will need science, we will also need people with migration backgrounds from those regions from which these questions will be raised at national level. I believe that the Federal Government – but I am now allowed to say this for the security speakers – has brought this discussion to a very good stage in the last few weeks. I expect that we will be able to implement the necessary legislative decisions in the near future, after the review, as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e5464	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Steinacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e5485	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Appreciate fellow citizens! ‘I have seen. I hated it.” – That’s what Franklin D. Roosevelt said. There are people who simply do not want to realize that they are waging a war against the free world and against unknown. They want to go to a war of terrorism. without knowing what war is, and without ever seeing war. Even young Austrians are trapped in terrorist networks, and they are influenced by fundamentalist forces. They are used as a tool of death and violence. Our young fellow citizens are tools of death and violence, and we must stop that by all means! The Austrian security authorities are doing great work, and they are watching closely. It is due to them that jihadists are captured, propaganda material is seized and recruitment efforts are held back. These are the successes of the police who clearly show: No terrorist must feel secure in Austria, no terrorist has room here. I would like to join the police with the thanks of Werner Amon: This is a great achievement, as well as, of course, the performance of our constitutional protection. Terrorists fight against the rule of law. But with us, they themselves also receive a judicial procedure. We are fighting terrorism by means of rule of law. We have recently adopted an anti-terrorism package in the National Council: the symbol law, amendments to the citizenship law, and intensifications of the border control law – important elements to strengthen the path taken in the fight against terrorism. We strengthen the power of the police, minors are held in suspicion that they wish to participate or support action abroad, when leaving the state territory, and immediately their parents are informed. This is the protection of our children, I would like to emphasize. I can do the 4th in this place. Class of the Stiftsgymnasium Milk welcome at the visitor gallery. – Welcome! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] We hope that today you will listen carefully to this discussion, but also understand what it is all about, because you have to understand it. The use of terrorist symbols has been prohibited. The purpose of this ban is to prevent the appeal, the glorification and support of violence from being supported by these symbols. This is clearly contrary to democratic society and to the idea of international understanding. It must always be called, and there is no If and But: zero tolerance to jihadism! The amendment to the Criminal Law provides for the clarification of the crime status stock. The hatred is redefined, it is more severe, and it is no longer just the call for violence, but in the future – if we decide so – the incitement of hatred with up to two years of imprisonment can be punished. What's added to the fact-finding feature is: It is enough to address a circle of 30 people in the future, and it no longer has to be 150 people as it used to be. Mrs. Federal Minister Mikl- Leitner, I am absolutely grateful to you and Foreign Minister Kurz, as well as to our Vice Chancellor and Federal Minister Brandstetter, for what you do together for your courage in the fight against terrorism, which is always a very personal fight against terrorism, and for your very personal commitment. The security offensive of the Federal Government – Mrs. Federal Minister, you mentioned it earlier – has been a very essential step in this fight so that our people fighting terrorism are well equipped accordingly. Terror knows no borders, it doesn't care about state borders, the anti-terrorist conference last week in Vienna was an essential contribution to the closing of the shoulders and understanding of all the EU's internal and foreign ministers and the Western Balkans. Not watching, but acting is our foreign exchange. I expressly welcome the Series adoption of the Internal Security Sub-strategy. It shows that we have taken the right path, and will ensure that in the next five years, police and federal forces will work more closely on this basis in the face of threats. Our common goal must be: Austria must remain safe. We focus on prevention. It is important to ensure that the basic principles of our society are learned such as freedom, tolerance and the basic understanding of democracy. Our children need to know that violence is never a suitable means to avoid being banished by terrorism. We must continue to do everything we can in order not to give an opportunity to immigration through terrorism in Austria. This is the responsibility of all of us, in politics and in society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e5557	The next item is the report by Mr Strache. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e5579	Madam President. Minister of the Interior! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The present hour is to be welcomed. When it comes to terrorism, it must be noted that in the last 15 years this terror has been almost exclusively from Islamists, and I am missing a little in this title. I expressly note: One cannot represent and present every Muslim human being as terrorists, that is not the case, no question. But the terror of the last 15 years has been produced almost exclusively by Islamists in Europe and elsewhere in the world, unfortunately God. This is, of course, an Islamic terrorist threat that we are dealing with. The Boko Haram was addressed by which yesterday this dramatic development took place. In recent years, we have experienced there the best-selling murder, including in this region, in Nigeria. We experience the dramaticly cruel and barbaric images from Syria, from Iraq, from the Islamic State, where mass killings take place, heads take place, mass shootings take place most cruelly. This is a very serious problem which has become apparent in Europe, the Middle East, but also, of course, through other attacks. Unfortunately, we in Austria are part of the problem of God today, because in the meantime we are also to be regarded as a recruitment country and many people have become fanatics here, or have become approachable to fanatics. And that's not just an educational problem. I'll give you the right. It is important that we ensure the social future – education policy et cetera – for young people. This is usually an ideological-fanatic problem, many of the terrorists have been highly educated people, have also been integrated into the respective society. This is not only an educational problem, but we almost already have it to do with ideology and sect, which is not to be reduced to a small amount of education. I believe that we need to go deeper and take the problem more seriously, because we naturally call on Islam, on religion, on interpretations and sometimes also interpret them literally and leave no other scope. We must take this seriously because it is defined as divine commission, and that is not to be reduced exclusively to educational deficits. If I say that we are a recruiting country today, then the recent example of course is the 16-year-old jihad returnee, who has been serving the media for a few days. You almost try from some sides, this almost as a hero to celebrate, because he has now returned from these terrorists, where he has previously been willing to volunteer to support the Islamic State and these gangs of murder – whichever he has done, perhaps even in the face of cruel crimes of these devil warriors, which he will not admit now. We must be very careful and careful, because the facts speak a clear and frightening language: 174 people from Austria have already reported themselves for this terrorist state, the Islamic State, have gone there to support this terror in order to support the murder, and these rulers have ultimately been part of the terrorist organisation, and at least 65 of them – the question response comes from 2014, so it is probably already much more – returned and live here today. In view of these figures, this is a high-grade security risk, of course also for the Austrian population, which cannot be denied, and we need to act in a blatant manner. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The attacks in France and Denmark alone show us which insanity states some are capable of and even Islamists were capable of. That is why we must be particularly careful with the over 65 jihadists who have returned. It should not be allowed to enter Austria anymore. According to the Ministry of the Interior, the number refers to the reference date 19. It's probably more than that on December 20, 2014. We need to take far-reaching measures here in order to ultimately reduce Syria's returnees and their risks to Austrians and Austria, and unfortunately the only observation of constitutional protection, which – even if it is increased – is very under-occupied, will not be enough. It also has other tasks to observe as potential Islamist terrorists, since the range of tasks is much wider. It is therefore high time that SPÖ and ÖVP also take our demands seriously and implement them, namely Austrian citizens who have reported for a terrorist military Islamic state and have gone to war to immediately withdraw citizenship, and not only if they are double-citizens. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the Stronach team.]] One has to make sure that someone who comes back and is suspected of being terroristally active there is placed in custody until everything is finally unexplained. There's a lot to do. I come to the conclusion: Thanks and respect for the work of our police, solidarity instead of diffamation, this is also our position, because it has not deserved what is listed here in part with the police and in part, I say, with frame stories being torn out of the context.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e5649	The next item is the report by Mr Pilz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e5670	Madam President. Minister of the Interior! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to express my thanks to the officials. [[Abg. Beautiful: Very authentic!]] Yes, a very overwhelming majority of Austrian police officers not only provide a heavy, not only one often poorly paid, not only a often little honoured, but in many cases also a dangerous service, and there they – and fortunately this is no secret – have the full support of all the political groups of this House. [[It was in favour of the Greens as well as of representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] It is also important that we have a functioning constitutional protection, especially in view of the dangers described, but we also need to talk about what we expect from the constitutional protection, what he should do and what he should not do. Our problem – Mr Strache has described it quite correctly – is not the struggle of the Islamic state in Austria, but Austro jihadists who go to Syria, possibly to Libya, partly return and present a security risk. [[Abg. Bösch: Listen, hear!]] That is to say, there is – and there is a lot about it – a lot about constitutional protection mainly about young people at the edge of our society, where integration has failed. That means that we also need police to watch this to prevent attacks, but above all, we need to see that young people don't get that far at all. Why is there no word being said about the failure of these young people to do all that has been done? And when a young person gets into this scene again, the acquisition of a helicopter by the Minister of the Interior will not prevent him from doing so. That's one. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] The second is: Not everything the Constitutional Protection does is good. We should be very careful that the Constitutional Protection of Jihadists is pursuing, not pizzas. Why I'm saying this, I'm going to tell you a little bit now. ==References== February of this year two officials of the Lower Austrian Constitutional Protection appeared in a pizzeria in Gmünd and said to the owner, Mr. Orhan Ertugrul, before gathered guests, so that everyone could hear: Are you in Islam? Are you praying regularly? Where do you pray? In which mosque? What did you do with the money from your house sale and car sales? Why do you wear a black jacket? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] When do you travel to Syria in the Islamic State? – Before gathered customers! The owner of this pizzeria was unscrupulous, commissioned his lawyer, the lawyer turned to the Vienna Constitutional Protection and the Constitutional Protection answered him that an investigation procedure against him was not pending, there was simply no procedure. Mr. Ertugrul was born in fourth generation, not immigrants, but in Austria, who was born in Ottakring, Austria, a successful entrepreneur – which is at the address of the entrepreneurship party, which is currently also the Minister for the Interior. What happened? It all turned out to be unstoppable, but the leaser of the pizzeria writes: I, the tenant, confirm that our business is being financially destroyed. We ourselves are in distress and do not know what we need to do now. It is frustrating that the people with fear and terror are no longer coming. This is a 20-year-old married woman. Mr. Ertugrul confirms that after this event the business has gone down, and he himself says: [[Abg. Kickl: In the future you should also be a little careful with shakes!]] It must not be forgotten that people run away from me, turn their heads on the other side, and really fear that I am a terrorist. Not only do I suffer because my children have to go to school and kindergarten, and I had to explain at school why the officials were with me. My reputation's on the ground. [[Abg. Kickl: Bad, but especially you should make this thinkful!]] This is not one of the tasks of constitutional protection! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I told you this in the Committee on the Interior, Mrs. Inner Minister, and I said: Do everything you can to restore this businessman's reputation and the consequences of this police attack – and this is a police attack that has ruined a business and the reputation of an innocent person – and to repair this damage! I'm excited about your answer. [[Abg. Kickl: Here the Constitutional Protection has used your method!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] To date, nothing has been done to compensate for this damage, as far as possible, and it is a shame that such attacks on behalf of the fight against terrorism, which is obviously a successful fight against pizzerias, still find support for representatives of the Freedom Party. [[Abg. Kickl: No, it doesn't find it, but you're working exactly with this method!]] I would have expected that this unchallenged businessman has the support of this whole house and also the Minister of the Interior. I'm not giving up hope.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e5838	Next item is the report by Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e5859	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Despite the terrorists that we are discussing now, and the worst disasters, I can send you a happy message. I can tell you that our former clubwoman Dr. Kathrin Nachbaurheute born her son Sebastian in the early days, and I think I can wish her all the best and good luck with Sebastian in your and our name! [[General condolences.]] Now on the topic of “Common Against Terror”, ladies and gentlemen – a good title of which we should all accept. Yes, we should work together here in Parliament against terrorism, ladies and gentlemen, and therefore I should also like to welcome the fact that Your colleague, Mr Mikl- Leitner, Mr Foreign Minister Kurz, has accepted my request for the withdrawal of citizenship for ISIS fighters and is working in this direction. Mein Ladies and gentlemen, you may remember: A nearly three-quarters ago, I called here for former IS fighters with Austrian citizenship to be deprived of them, since I do not understand that they are still permitted to exercise Austrian voting rights and that the social benefits of the welfare state of Austria are preserved. That's the right way, because you have our support, that's what we should do together. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Mrs Bundesminister, on the subject of terrorism: I drove over the Deutsche Eck a few days ago and heard there on Bavarian radio that the German Interior Minister de Maizière demanded that the federal police be increased with 900 federal officials in Germany, and he also recommended to the federal states to do so with their guards. In Germany, the police sector is state-owned, and there is the roof organisation of the federal police. That is to say, he called for a massive increase in staff, with the following reason: because of the strong immigration, because of the war confusion in the Middle East. I believe that we should take this to heart, Mrs Federal Minister, and I will make another request on this subject at another item on the agenda, that we not only increase the financial police, in order to raise our taxpayers, by 500 officials, but that we also increase the Federal Police, which provides security and justice in that state. I think that's necessary, we have a staff shortage at the federal police, because you can say what you want, that's fact. I'm from this area, and I know it best. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] The Federal Minister has referred to the security package: Yes, over €300 million, I think this is important and good, as you also have our support. Two helicopters may not improve this, but I know we need experts in the IT field who can combat just such terrorist spreads that can research in advance, which is a reasonable thing. I would also like to give you an example. Yesterday, my parliamentary colleague spoke to me on a subject, and her friend on Facebook was contacted by a Muslim young woman who, as a friend, had previously had an unscathed image inside and who then disguised her with a new picture to follow the IS. Unfortunately, she has deleted this mail in shock, and I would like to call on the spectators not to do so, but to inform the police of this data so that the investigations can be started – i.e., a request, a call in this direction. Ladies and gentlemen! We've heard the IS terrorists, you've probably heard from the media, sluggish over refugee streams to be here as sleepers. That's what I'm talking about: We have not only Austrian citizens who have fought down there but also asylumers who have consciously weighed themselves in security here in Austria, parked their family here and then go there to fight for the IS. Ladies and gentlemen, there must be no mercy, but it must be said quite clearly: These people are sent back to their home country, they have lost asylum status, and here they have to get through hard. There must be a very clear sign, and I call on you, dear Federal Government, to put these measures into practice. And here, in connection with the family estate, we create equally clear conditions, because I do not see that these criminals who brand there rape, murder that these people feed their families in Austria through our social system, weigh themselves in safety here – then all go along, then we make the family union also in this direction and not only in the direction of Austria, into the fine social system, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e5936	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Alm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e5957	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! I almost wanted to report on an actual correction when Mr Pilz said that the ÖVP was an entrepreneurship party. I would like to say at this point that there has been another entrepreneurship in Parliament since October 2013. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Call the team Stronach:Two!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] - But for the sake of the matter. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Right, right, that can only have been a joke!]] [[Further calls.]] – I didn’t mean the Stronach team, I already meant the NEOS party. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Unfortunately, terrorist attacks and terrors are not new manifestations in Europe to come to the fore. In the course of the Islamic State and also in the wake of the attacks in Paris, “Charlie Hebdo”, further action is to be taken at EU level. As mentioned several times, Austria passed a small number of laws at the end of last year – the symbol law has been called, the border law has been amended, there have been changes in the citizenship law. What will be forgotten is the Islam Law, which is also put in the series of these laws by Klubobmann Lopatka. ==References== ==References====External links== But this law goes beyond the goal, and the other laws are equally ineffective, they do not contribute to the prevention and investigation of terrorism. There are no empirical data that suggest effectiveness in any form. Instead of adopting democratic policy-making, ineffective laws, it is important to look at what is already in place. After 9/11, 239 measures were adopted at EU level to combat terrorism, and before we decide on further measures and expand competences, we should take advantage of the existing instruments. This includes, for example, the very concrete exchange of data with Europol and Eurojust. A 2005 Council decision obliges EU Ministers of Interior and Justice to feed on data on terrorism and organised crime. However, only half of the data concerned is currently being reported at all. This measure, which would allow a coordinated approach against terrorists, has not yet arrived in practice ten years after its decision. In order to clarify this failure, we have also asked the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior, whose response remains - as so often has been - still to be answered. But that wasn't the only request. Together with the Greens, we have also supported the catalogue of actions for the evaluation of anti-terror law, the so-called HEAT project, of the working group stock data. In the course of this process, we put together 43 parliamentary questions on 25 surveillance topics to seven ministries at the beginning of March. One of these topics is the passenger data storage, in short PNR, passenger name record, and a concrete benefit of this passenger data storage has not been demonstrated. This mass and impeccable storage of passenger data is also nothing but a form of data storage, which was actually impossibility by the ECJ and the VfGH last year. It is generally quite inconceivable that we still have to deal with data storage. We should actually devote ourselves to things that will concern us in the future, such as the Internet of Things. In the future, we will have 100 billion, 200 billion devices online, which can not only send but also receive them. There will be more participants in the form of these devices on the Internet than people. And the use of these connected devices can reveal our behaviour – no matter where we find them: in apartments, in vehicles or as vehicles themselves. We should deal with this. In the future, it is not only about our personal behavior that needs to be protected, but also about the behaviour of the devices that surround us. But no, we need to reheat the ineffective data storage. I feel like an old record when I mention it all the time, but the Minister does. She said it would be wise to think about a succession in Austria. We think it's a lot of failure not to do that. My appeal is specifically addressed to the SPÖ, who has repeatedly expressed his dissent. President Bures, then still Minister for Infrastructure, also meant in April 2014: “Austria implemented the EU directive only because we had to.” And: “That’s why I’m of the opinion: We don’t need data storage.” – That’s right. Finally, after the attacks on ‘Charlie Hebdo’, the Federal Chancellor spoke in this regard, spoke out against the storage of data in stock and meant: “I currently see no reason for the reintroduction.” It's clear to us: Terrorist and criminal activities must be strongly pursued – no question – but they must not serve as justification to disproportionately limit, causelessly and permanently the right to privacy, freedom of expression and other fundamental rights – otherwise we will lose what is at the heart of our free, democratic society. [[President Bures gives the bell sign]] We must defend privacy, with total surveillance we land on a slippery slope that will lead to totalitarian phenomena. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e6037	The next item is the report by Mr Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e6058	But, Mr Vorrecher, this is exactly what the Minister said when she said that it must be a balance between freedom and security. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] And that is exactly the crucial directive, and it is precisely that the principles of the rule of law and human rights are taken into account here. Mrs. Mikl- Leitner also said that this must, of course, be done through several departments. Education, social affairs and much more must also be taken into account. But I believe that in this whole debate we must also see the background that goes beyond security policy. Security policy often has a kind of repair function when it does not work in society. And there you have to ask yourself the question: Why is there even the Islamic State? It's not just about the question: Why do young people find it attractive to go there and fight there?, but also because: Why does he even exist? These are failures in foreign policy, for example. One defeated Gaddafi and killed him, but the question that comes then no one really could answer. Saddam Hussein was fought, defeated, killed – but then what? And if you don't have a concept and don't know how to go a way towards democracy, and if you don't have a concept for economic development, that's bad. There is also a lot of misdevelopment in the world economy as much as in individual national areas. The suburbs of Paris or other European states are the recruitment fields for the fighters of the Islamic State. This has a social background, which has an economic background, which often has an integrational background. You have to see all this. This is a phenomenon far beyond the borders of the Arab world. And there are many unresolved questions. Perfectly, Barack Obama says that we have to have nuclear talks with Iran, so that, because it is a regional power, it comes here to a solution that has a peace-political perspective. Although I do not calm down that Pakistan has the atomic bomb, it is at least an essential step in this direction. I consider the election of Netanyaus as the Israeli Prime Minister – it is to be respected, it is a democratic election – for Israel and for the peace-political pro-sixs an accident. When he says again, he doesn't want a two-state solution, he can now row back as much as he wants, or if he asks: Why go in masses of Arab voters, where are the other voters in Israel? – This is a form of dialogue and culture with the Arab world, which is one of the roots of why the situation is so today. Helmut Schmidt once said that one cannot live in a permanent state of war with over a billion Muslims. – Of course not, neither can. One must try to deal with the Muslims who also feel this very Islamic threat as a threat, and also with many others here. In fact, the poorest are those who work in the security devices, because they have to stop their heads when the social and the economics have not worked, and they have their lives in order to ensure that the important security requirements are met. To make sure you understand me correctly: With all the hardness, with all the precision, with all that is available, one has to wage this fight against terror. But you also have to see self-critically that a lot of things have carried this, and I have tried earlier to quote it with individual points. If the US says today: We are the representatives of democracy, of human rights!, I must say: Still there is Guantánamo, and Abu Ghraib was also a signal that was completely, completely harmful. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP and FPÖ as well as representatives of Greens and Team Stronach.]] This is not to be apologised, but to show that this is in fact much more comprehensive and much wider to be seen and that this dialogue must be conducted. And in my opinion – and this is also one of the failures – when these delicate plants of the Arab spring were observed, the European community or the so-called or real West was partially observed. One should have carried this and should have been much more active there. [[Abg. Kickl: The Socialists were on the other side for a long time!]] This is something that is crucial for security – if you see it from the security side – for the Mediterranean. There was always a point of hope for Tunisia with its new constitution. And it is there that terror begins, and it is Tunisia that they want to damage, so that there is no development of tourism there. That's why there's that there. The fact that they are partially incapable and have gone to a coffee by the four police at the museum two, one just bought something for dinner and the fourth has not come at all, is a security-political lack. Even if all four had been there, it would probably not have been quite impossible – with these two heavy-armed or three who came – but this has led to the fact that there were the many dead. But I have to say: You have to put all of this at the root – at the root. But we also need to take into account the balance between freedom and security – I would like to stress this once again. – A very important sentence that you said today.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e6107	The next item is the speech by Mr Prince-in-Office. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e6130	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The fear of terrorist attacks in Europe is more present than ever by numerous cruel attacks, such as Madrid, France, Norway, Denmark or, lastly, Tunisia. People are executed because they are in the wrong place at the wrong time, because terrorism does not question. Terrorists kill innocent people to ultimately spread fear and terror with this motive of violence. Terror is intended to ensure that the majority of the people are subjected to a minority – without negotiations, without dialogue and without compromises. If a minority wants to dominate a majority by force and terror, it is essential that the majority join together and mobilize together against this terror. Social and security measures must be taken to prevent the fire of violence and terror, both nationally and internationally. Cooperations are necessary and are also increasingly used. For example, Minister of the Interior Johanna Mikl- Leitner and Foreign Minister Sebastian recently held an anti-terrorist conference in Vienna with countries from Central Europe and South-East Europe. This was about jointly coordinated prevention measures against radicalisation and measures against the threat posed by terrorist foreign fighters in Europe. In order to counteract the spread of radical content on the Internet, the Minister of the Interior, together with her team, has developed a cooperation model with the Google and YouTube companies. In the fight against terrorism, our Minister has also put in place an important measure with the establishment of the de-radicalisation shotline – this measure is already very popular in Europe. Within the framework of yesterday's government clause, Minister of the Interior Mikl-Leiter and Minister of Defence, Klug, arranged their cooperation in the face of threats through an agreement accordingly. The professionals of the police and the federal army will work together for the safety of the people in Austria and will be available quickly in case of a serious situation. In Parliament, we have only recently adopted amendments to the fight against terrorism. It has already been mentioned several times: the Terror symbol law, amendments to the citizenship law and the border control law, but also in criminal law. There has been no loss of hatred, hatred and terrorism in Austria. We must make every effort to ensure that security for all of us, as well as living together in this country, is preserved in the spirit of dialogue and mutual respect. To this end, measures have been and will be taken constantly, for example at the legal level, through enhanced cooperation or through modernisation in the structures. But the strongest weapon against terror is the information. I mean that, in the sense of prevention, we must look at the fact that young people in school, in vocational training, ultimately learn to understand the basic principles of our democratic living together. Yes, we often argue, we discuss, but we respect the opinion of the other and do not respond with violence or even terrorism if something does not fit us. Multi- The Commission's proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating At the beginning of all efforts is the understanding of the ability and mastery of the German language. German knowledge is essential for integration and mutual understanding. But they are also essential to the respect of our values and our basic life orientation, and these values are also essential. In addition to the German knowledge, the will and the willingness to work are necessary. But also the willingness to integrate into communities, into associations, into the communities can be an essential step towards integration. I think we are doing a lot in Austria for integration. Let us remember yesterday's decision at the government clause: The resources for language early promotion have been tripled. However, information also means that we ultimately give hope and future to those young people who, for whatever reason, are looking for a stop with terrorists or who want to go into the jihad for manipulation by haters, whether through good education, through a job or simply through our listening and showing that we recognize their concerns and fears. Here we are all required to keep eyes and ears open. Hetze and intolerance against dissident and barbaric terror do not in any way comply with our basic principles of freedom, democracy and human rights. With targeted measures against terrorism and cooperation between the democratically-seen community of values in Europe, terror and human contempt will not be possible in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e6214	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e6235	Madam President. Mein Ladies and gentlemen! Well, terrorism and the debate on it – it is already interesting when this debate comes to us. It is primarily about IS terrorism, although we have been seeing terror all over the world for years. We see gang wars, we see drug gang wars, we see civil wars and we see – under quotations – “faith wars”, which we also had in our history. You think of crusades, you think of Turkish sieges – stopped twice before Vienna – and you also think of the wars of the faith of the Thirty Years War, which have also led to distress and destruction even in our narrower homeland. And now, all at once, you say, Yes, the IS-terror is what connects us. We have been hearing for weeks, months and years what terrible conditions exist all over the world. Only yesterday in Nigeria: abducted women, kidnapped children. The difference is just: We have many victims in the IS state, because they are people from Europe, from the USA. You know the names, you know the faces, you know the families, you know the individual fates that are played by the TV cameras in the household, that's why we get closer – and we also know the perpetrators. It has already been quoted: the 14-year-old from St. Pölten who wants to build bombs to move to IS; the 16-year-old who has now returned to Austria after he was in operation there in the war of terror – only as a medicament, as he wants to make us believe. Or we also know the asylum seekers in the Waldviertel, whose defender now says in the court trial in Krems: He looks so bad, he's almost blind, he can't really fight! Ladies and gentlemen! It's the perpetrators – the perpetrators! – which have already arrived here in Austria. And a little sidestep is allowed here: They are also those who came to Austria with the title asylum, in order to make here simply – under quotation marks – “Holiday” and then to enjoy something. It's about crime, and you have to fight crime. First of all, there is the cause and motivation research. This is a relatively clear: The motive is Islam. Although many say and rightly say, a falsely understood Islam, but nevertheless. They are also Muslim young girls who move to Syria to marry themselves there with “God fighters” – under quotation marks – and to stand by them there. That is, in this motivational research one has to go to prevention, keyword education, which has already been mentioned, but also Islam law. Where are the measures, when it is said, to be able to preach only in German in Austria, and to be able to do other things? All of this was overlooked in this Islam law. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Finally, the fight against crime involves immediate action by police, prosecutors and independent courts. In this context, I should like to focus very briefly on Mr Cap's comments, on the Arab spring and the upheavals that take place there. When I think of Tunisia, when I think of Mr Mubarak in Egypt, they have been members of the Socialist International for decades without problems. Why Confession You're not even looking at this mistake and the mistake you've made? Or is it really just about what the US tells us? – Although what you have said about the United States is, of course, absolutely true. Another thing: Gaddafi was also seen in a socialist party and with you. [[Abg. Kickl: was in the Socialist International!]] At once it turns out, depending on how the weather changes. [[Abg. Darabos: The liberals were quite often in Libya!]] [[Abg. Kickl: We broke up before!]] One more thing about the police and what's already been cut here: Mr Pilz, the last committee on the Interior, that was really demasking. Mr Pilz, you're a left-wing populist with the only problem that you don't have a populus, not a people. [[Abg. Darabos: How often was.Unknown term type: "%s".?- Oh, my God!]] That's the only thing you can show with your turnouts and otherwise. There's only more left left. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This is like many of your cases: There comes a citizen with some semi-true claim – alone when I look at this incident in the Mariahilfer Straße, where the public in the social forums is resurgenced and says: Ah, police force, completely overlaid! – That the man had previously harassed children sexually, harassed women, beaten a policeman, that everything is hidden from your focus. Don't register that. [[In the case of the FPÖ, representatives of the ÖVP and the Agg. Hagen.]] It is enough if a citizen comes to the prosecutor Pilz, who is tasked with investigating the criminal police officer Pilz, then the charges come from the prosecutor Pilz. This then comes to the judge Pilz, who has turned off the defender; if he still says something, it comes to the appeal judge Pilz, and he says what is right and order in that state. This is your sense of a rule of law. They are one who, in protecting immunity, always spreads half-truths to perfect untruths in denunciantism. I don't know how many cases of immunity regarding insult you've ever been here. Have we crossed the Hundertermark yet? – Because then, I think you should invite us to the anniversary.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e6371	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Korun. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e6393	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! [[Calls and counter-calls between Deputies Rosenkranz and Cap.]] When the colleagues from the FPÖ are finished with their calls, I may start. Dear ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and in front of the screens, apologise that I have forgotten you! As far as Mr Rosenkranz's remarks are concerned, we simply have to say: He's thinking about the others. – So much about half-truths and untruths that are spread under the protection of immunity. [[Abg. Neubauer: You've never been to an investigation committee before!]] Back to our topic, to terror and terrorism: We all know what terrorist acts intend to destabilise free societies, to eliminate fundamental rights and to spread fear and terror. So many governments, especially after the Paris and Copenhagen terrorist attacks, are under pressure to announce and praise very quickly sounding successes. We need medium and long-term projects, especially in the area of social cohesion, the fight against extremism and terrorism. In addition to the police and state-protected persecution of crimes that it obviously needs, we need a lot of prevention projects. That is why I would like to focus on prevention, especially since Mr Steinacker of the ÖVP has said yes – I quote – that: “We set the focus on prevention.” Mrs. Colleague, I would like to take you seriously, because it would be really necessary for us to focus on the criminal prosecution already mentioned, but also very strongly on prevention. Unfortunately, the numbers and the data show a little different picture. I would like to thank you for mentioning that there is this so-called de-radicalisation shotline. By the way, the people who work there say that please do not call them hotline, but they are a contact point and a consulting point. It is good that this advisory centre has come, and well that it has not, as originally planned, come to the police ministry – and this must also be mentioned in praise – because such a point of contact for deradicalization, an advisory centre must be low to be able to pick up the family members, in order to be able to approach the family members of potentially threatened persons, from potentially divergent persons in extremism and radicalism. However, Mrs. Federal Minister – because you said that the Federal Government had reacted very quickly – said: Let us perhaps take a look over the edge of the plate to our neighbors, to the Federal Republic of Germany. A central hotline or contact point was established there already in January 2012, i.e. about three years before us – so much for the very quick reaction. If we look at the specific prevention projects undertaken by the government, I do not want to mention the following: It amounts to up to €290 million, which were almost enchanted by the government within three years and are primarily used for police upgrades, armored vehicles and others. With this amount of € 290 million, prevention work is a minimum to minimal part. I'll give you a concrete example. About three weeks ago, two government members presented a very meaningful, important prevention project, established and used by the sociologist Edit Sleeper elsewhere. This is called mother school. They try to strengthen families so that they can support their children, their sons and daughters in the fight against extremism so that they can, as it were, get a craftsmanship to be prepared against extremism and prevention. Do you know how much money this hugely important prevention project is being funded? – With 23 000 €. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] This is up to € 290 million for police upgrade, and unfortunately this does not mean: We focus on prevention! – Ladies and gentlemen, there is very much to do. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would also like to tell you – because this is always too short in our discussions and especially here in plenary – that we have made the effort to bring one of the experts in the field of deradikization in the German-speaking area, Mrs Claudia Dantschke from the Berlin consulting station HAYAT-Germany, to Vienna, to Austria. We've been talking to her for a long time. She has been very successful in this field with her HAYAT-Germany advisory centre for years and, I conclude, says that early consultations are quite, very important to get people out of the radicalisation spiral. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Why can they all talk for so long?- Oh, my God!]] That is why we also need a massive expansion of this starting and consulting point for deradicisation. We currently have a single body with very limited resources throughout the country. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government, we would like to take you seriously and see that you have recognised the value and importance of prevention work on the subject of terrorism. Please, let's get to work from the narrators! - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e6461	The next item is Mr Ertlschweiger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e6482	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Jihadists are Austrian state enemies – point. It is no secret that radical Islamist groups have already taken a foothold throughout Europe and that Austria is not an island of the Blessed for a long time. That is a fact, and we must therefore also take measures to equip ourselves accordingly in the fight against terrorism. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Thank God we have so far been spared from such devastating attacks as they happened in Copenhagen, as they happened in Paris or in Tunis. But none of you will be so blue-eyed and believe that this can't happen with us too. It is precisely for this reason that we need to observe suspicious groups extremely closely and remain extremely vigilant. An example is the so-called Lies! Foundation, which has created a Koran distribution campaign in Eisenstadt last Friday. The Lies! Foundation, which distributes Korane throughout Europe – in Germany it is already 1.4 million copies, according to “Wiener Zeitung” – was already present for the second time in Eisenstadt with an information booth. Their aim is to spread the fundamentalist view of Islam. You can say, okay, there's nothing wrong with distributing the Bible, distributing the Qur'an, that's nothing bad. The action was registered with the Magistrate, is legally covered. And yet, ladies and gentlemen, she has caused irritation to many people. Many have been wondering what to do. Many passers-by were surprised when they read the boldly printed formula of faith that was to be read on the sideboard in the Qur'an. If I read this sentence, I understand this wonder. The word is: “This sentence is your salvation from eternal punishment in hell on the Last Day and the key to Paradise.” [[Abg. Steinhauser: But this can also be read in the Bible!]] [[Abg. Kickl: But there's something else in the back!]] Ladies and gentlemen, in Eisenstadt everything was over after three, four hours, everything went on in order. This was not the case in Wiener Neustadt. Wiener Neustadt has prohibited such distributions of the Lies! foundation as the first city in Austria. [[Call: Thank God]] There, the partly verbally aggressive behaviour of the distributors and the very offensive behaviour has led the Magistrate to step in and say: Don't stop in our city! When I hear this, read it and see it, I don't wonder that the constitutional protection has already become aware and such distribution actions have been observed by God thanks also very carefully, because, according to the Ministry of the Interior, it is also evident that a mere distribution action can also create a reference to recruitment for the jihad. It's dangerous. That is why I have tabled a request today to the Federal Minister, who takes a close look at these activities of the Lies! Foundation. I hope that this will give me concrete answers. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I already said it today: Jihadists are Austrian enemies because they attack our democratic values. These state enemies must be kept away from Austria at all costs, and any radicalisation trends must already be suffocated in the germ. It is especially necessary that one is already employed and preventive in schools. At the external borders of the European Union, for a long time candidates have been able to prevent potential jihadists with a European passport more easily on entry and exit. This is a necessary and correct step. I say it today: That won't be the last step. It is only a matter of time until temporary border controls are reintroduced. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] When it comes to the internal and external security of Austria, we owe it to people in our country to take all the opportunities that the rule of law allows us to do, even if at first glance they may appear unpopular. In this whole of the terrorist debate that we are having today, it is not a question of instigating fear and insinuating the population. That's not the point! It is about becoming aware of the threat scenarios and putting in place the appropriate and responsible measures. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! As a state, Austria must set very clear limits on this matter. If we don't have a place, we don't have a place in this country. Austrians who go to the so-called Holy War and join the murder troops of the Islamic State, the Boko Haram, Al Kaida et cetera, and kill and burn, have no place with us either. That is why I do not understand the discussion on the question of whether to deny citizenship or not. There is no discussion about this! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Anyone who goes to this Holy War for the Islamic State and turns his back on Austria is immediately recognized by citizenship! My access to the whole subject is: Prevention at all levels, instead of reaction and – worst of all – grief!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e6562	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e6583	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! At the end of the current hour, I would like to address two points. One thing we have already heard: prevention. Do you know what the suspects in Copenhagen and Paris had in common? – They were already in prison and were radicalized even further in these prisons. [[Abg. Kickl: What do you do now?]] [[Abg. Podgorschek: What's the end?]] I believe that whatever we need is that we are professionally in prisons to make sure that we increase the possibilities for no further radicalisation there. Another aspect of prevention that has already been addressed is the following: How do we deal with the social environment of those who are radicalized? How do we deal with the people concerned themselves? I believe that deradicalization workshops, the deradicalisation shotline – agency or contact point, whatever you want to call it – are a step in the right direction. Prevention work is particularly important because, if we recognize the signals as early as possible, we can also work against further radicalisation. All the financial resources and resources we put into these prevention measures are also the financial resources that we save ourselves afterwards from police and justice. The second point is cooperation at European level. We need this cooperation very urgently, because this is a problem that we can only solve together at European level. Both agencies at European level dealing with this, namely Europol and Eurojust, say they are insufficiently provided with the relevant data. If the European Parliament has to decide a resolution ten years after a common approach, which says that we need more information exchange, we need more joint work, then we realize that we have obviously not arrived where we decided ten years ago that we want to go together. We need more and no less Europe in this context. We need more cooperation because this problem can only be solved jointly at European level. Against this background – and in particular, if we look at what measures we have taken together – we should always consider whether these measures have been implemented, whether we should not act together more, or whether it has only remained in the case of lip confessions. The question is also whether we have always sufficiently exploited the measures, whether we may not need more personnel and equipment – that is also what is currently coming from the Federal Government in many areas. For example, perhaps we should use the €500 million estimated for passenger data storage better for other projects. That is exactly the subject: storage of data, Mr Alm has already mentioned it. – Mrs Minister, we would like to have a clear confession from you. The European Commission has already said that it does not want to start a new start on this point. I think it is particularly important to make it clear at last that this is not an adequate means of dealing with terrorism in some way. What's not going on is that we're following the motto: If it does not help, but does not harm it!, continue to take measures that restrict fundamental rights, restrict human rights. We know that targeted investigations help much better and have a much better output than the inadequate storage of stock data, the inadequate storage of passenger data, the inadequate surveillance of people via cameras. We need targeted measures. It cannot be that we collectively deprive all citizens of the presumption of innocence and believe that we should further restrict their rights of freedom to this extent, as has already been done. We prefer to work together on measures aimed at counter-terrorism, rather than in some way and Let us continue to restrict fundamental rights! Mr Cap said that the balance was essential, as did the Minister of the Interior. They are perfectly right, the balance between freedom and security is all the essential. Do you know why we're explicitly addressing it here? – Under the red and black government, freedom has unfortunately always cut short in recent years. This is the essential point why we have to keep calling for this balance, because it has always been the rights of freedom of citizens who have drawn the shorter in recent years.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e6633	Mrs Mag. Mikl- Leitner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e6655	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me two additions. First of all, on the whole field of prevention: Yes, it was good, important and right that we settled the prevention site against extremism at the family ministry. In this context, I would like to thank the Minister for Family Affairs and the whole team of this advisory body. But please also allow me to point out that, of course, in the field of open youth work, this advisory body is closely connected with all the advisory bodies and institutions throughout Austria. That is, there is close cooperation with a comprehensive network. Of course, prevention is not only a work, a responsibility of the interior, but also of all other departments and also of every individual. Secondly, I should like to say something about two police missions that have been raised here today by my previous speakers. First of all, to the Gmünd case, which Mr Pilz referred to, where you described the incident in Gmünd in the Pizzeria: Yeah, we've started the investigation that this is to be illuminated in detail. The second case raised today is that of yesterday's use in the Mariahilfer Straße: You know that I do not generally comment on any observations in detail, but I would like to mention some facts. On the one hand, as in any other case, the use is, of course, analysed in detail. Why? - Because we want to get better and better on the part of the police. On the facts: What happened? - A woman felt threatened. A woman was persecuted and called for help. She called the police and asked for help. And the police did the right thing: She took up the persecution and arrested the persecutor. At this point, I would like to thank all the police who were involved in this mission, because they have protected this woman and perhaps kept it from worse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e6694	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[10:41:09]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e6715	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[10:41:15]] Request for a brief debate on the response to the question 3221/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e6978	Before entering the agenda, I shall inform you that the request made pursuant to § 92 of the Rules of Procedure is to hold a brief debate on the reply 3221/AB to Question 3384/J by Mr Schellhorn, colleagues on the financing of the Chamber of Commerce by the Federal Minister for Science, Research and the Economy. [[10:41:50]] Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e6999	I would also like to say that a request for a short debate on the request of Members. Haider, ladies and gentlemen, is present to the Tourism Committee for reporting on the motion 910/A(E) of Members Mag. Haider, ladies and gentlemen, on the creation of additional investment incentives for tourism businesses by the introduction of the AFA to the economic life of a period of up to 21. ==References== As the request for short debates has been made at the same time, they will be called in the order in which I have referred to them, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, at 3 p.m. Any vote will take place following the debates on this subject. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e7022	It is proposed that the debates on points 2 to 4 and 11 and 12 of the agenda should be summarized. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e7047	Consensus on the duration of the debate was reached between the members of the presidential conference. Accordingly, a day block time of 8 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ and ÖVP per 108 minutes, FPÖ 100 minutes, Green 84 minutes as well as STRONACH and NEOS per 44 minutes. We shall now proceed to the vote on the speaking time just presented. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign in this regard. – This is unanimously accepted. [[10:43:50]] 1. Point Declarations by the Federal Chancellor and the Deputy Chancellor according to § 19 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council on ‘Tax Reform 2015/2016’; The discharge programme to strengthen the purchasing power and create jobs
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e7088	This leads us to the 1st place. Agenda item. I welcome the members of the Federal Government. Following the statements by the Federal Chancellor and the Vice-Chancellor on tax reform 2015/2016, a debate will take place within the meaning of § 81 of the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with the present request of five Members. First, I give Mr Faymann the floor. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e7118	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Members of the Federal Government! Honourable Members! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! First of all, we have rightly said – and I see some agreement with most of the parties in this House – that the input tax rate of 36.5 percent is too high. This was historically created by a certain exemption of lower incomes from wage and income tax, but no transition was made to ensure that a flat curve was set at the beginning of the tax obligation. This topic has also played a role in the election campaign. Since one should recall the election themes after one election, it was a common concern for us to reduce this entrance tax rate to 25 percent. Secondly, all European and international analyses show that wage and income taxes are too high and wealth-related taxes are lower than in other countries. Therefore, where we have too high taxes, namely on wage and income taxes, we have made a reduction. I would like to give just one example: The wage tax in 2014 brought € 25.9 billion. If I only take out part of the reduction in the wage tax, then that is 4.6 billion €. As you know, income tax and negative taxes must also be taken into account in the discharge. However, if I only take into account the reduction in the wage tax of € 4.6 billion for this account, this will result in a reduction in the tax rate in the wage tax by 17.7 percent. So: To reduce the wage tax by more than 17 per cent is something powerful – especially at a time when we all suffer from tight budget corrections across Europe, because we have not yet cleared away the ruins of the economic crisis. The budgets and the stability criteria imposed on us ourselves – with the stability criteria being very important the low interest rates we are currently paying for our government bonds – give us relatively little scope to simply add to such a tax reduction. Therefore, it was necessary that we use scope, but also create counter-financing. A focus of counter-financing is, as you know, the fight against fraud. [[Abg. Moser: Finally! That is a matter of course!]] Many entrepreneurs have now reported themselves and said that from their point of view it is understandable and correct that all taxes are paid in their industry. This is of course a matter of course for a worker and a worker, for that is what the tax is deducted from. But many entrepreneurs have also reported that, unlike the individual opinions that exist everywhere, the intention to pay taxes and fight fraud is correct. In the fight against fraud, we have set a particularly high amount of almost €2 billion, but not only as a source of hope for counter-financing, but also in the context of measures. We have been told by those responsible for combating fraud, the practitioners who are responsible on the ground and know what it is all about and why some people pay too few taxes, what instruments they would like and what instruments they think would be necessary. It should be noted that the well-known instrument of the registration fund, but also the instrument that, in the course of audits – usually, of course, of operating audits – the auditors can also look into the accounts of the person without a court in order to understand what is behind them in the event of ambiguity. A central account register is an advantage here because you know where the person concerned is entitled to use it everywhere. It is a question of supporting the auditors, not to go to court, but to have this instrument at their disposal. That is why I am of course also seeking the opposition to support us because, in terms of these and some other points, there is a way to do something against tax fraud, with concrete instruments, instead of just writing the headline. In this regard, we have dealt very intensively with those responsible for the Ministry of Finance in order to develop this in detail. As you know, we have also set an ambitious path in the field of counter-financing in the spa sector, which concerns the federal, state and local authorities, where we continue to save on what we have to meet stability criteria anyway. In addition, we have also implemented a number of tax opportunities in the asset-related field, which you know and which we have also presented publicly, for example in the field of equity and dividend profits or an increase, when someone buys and sells a property again and grows from it. These counter-financing measures have become necessary because we cannot say: The economy is running so well, growth sprays and sprays everywhere. That is why we cannot say that we are financing tax reform from growth and additional revenue. There have already been tax reforms that have been financed only with expectations for future better revenue and have virtually no need for counter-financing. But now, although it is the greatest tax relief, we have had the task of setting aside counter-financing on the other hand. I am convinced that this tax reform with a volume of €4.9 billion, which relieves some 6.4 million Austrians tax, also arouses interest on the part of the individual concerned in what they get and what they are affected by on the other hand. That is why I am also grateful to all the institutions in our Republic, especially the Ministry of Finance, but also the other institutions, who have built up something like a salary calculator, so that the individual has the opportunity to look at how he is personally concerned. Of course, in the political debate, the general figures – 6.4 million people affected – and dimensions are to be put on the table, but for the individual the truth is concrete, and therefore I am glad that these tools were created. German economists Peter Bofinger and Marcel Fratzscher spoke about our tax reform and called it a big and courageous reform, “which significantly relieves workers with low income and pensioners in particular”. It is “positive, courageous and exemplary in the EU comparison”. This is “nationally meaningful”, the economic experts say. “This increases purchasing power and contributes to growth.” This is the key: We want to fight unemployment! We are not satisfied with the fact that we are always first or second in the statistics and always in the best. Rather, we are horrified at every unemployed person and therefore want to fight unemployment with all the possibilities available to us. And this tax reduction is a central element of employment policy in our country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Since I am convinced that Mr Vice-Chancellor and Mr Finanzminister, but of course you, ladies and gentlemen, will certainly highlight many aspects in detail in this discussion, I would like to say something to you on a general point. We know that the objective of combating unemployment and stimulating the economy is a question of common European policy, an economic location in Europe and its ability to achieve sustainable growth in the market. We know that we are suppliers in many sectors, including the German economy, and are always watching very closely how our neighbors are developing. But we also know that we ourselves have a number of instruments available in the country, which are not to be used instead of European policy, but which need to be activated in addition. For this reason, we have also attached a package to our government clause. This includes the framework conditions for improving economic opportunities, such as the research premium in the field of research. In the area of financing for small and medium-sized enterprises, which are very often complaining about the credit clamp, it is of course important for us that, especially if investment is a little jump, the appropriate financing for small and medium-sized enterprises must be ensured. In this respect, we have put in place a first measure, but there are certainly other measures needed. In other areas of competitiveness, too, we have defined framework conditions – in concrete terms with premiums, with support. There are also issues that have a medium-term significance for us, where we know very well that this is one of the key factors in our country's reform approach. This concerns, on the one hand, a more efficient administration and, on the other, improved quality education. In total, this tax reduction is an important factor in Austrian policy, but it is not the only one for the development of sustainable growth and for the fight against unemployment. I would like to thank all those who have also given us the opportunity to comment on this in the public debate constructively, objectively, politically – quite differently. I am looking for those who have always known long before the tax reform, as well as after the tax reform, that everything is nothing anyway and that everything does not mean anything to have this discussion a bit constructive, in the interest of this country – not in the interest of another party, but in the interest of this country, in the interest of Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e7204	Thank you, Federal Chancellor, for your statement. I now give the floor to Mr Vice-Chancellor Dr Mitterlehner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e7228	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen, get out of the government team! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Dear viewers on the visitor gallery and in front of the TV screens! The tax reform is an important issue that has all of us very busy – you probably too, and it will probably still concern you. We have set a total of three objectives. The first goal was economic recovery, the second was the discharge of citizens – the self-employed, but also the self-employed and the pensioners. The third goal – and this has not yet been mentioned – was the budget-neutral procedure, because in the final effect it is impossible to give or forgive money without paying attention to the budget. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I can address all three aspects. Ladies and gentlemen! If you look at the international economy, you see that we are in the seventh year of an economic crisis, unfortunately not in a permanent recovery. Many countries have to implement savings programmes, all of them calling for economic programmes. As one of the few countries in the world, we are able to set up a business programme – and this is what we mentioned yesterday – with really good measures such as 12 percent research premium, crowdfunding and more. This tax reform will invigorate the economy. We have an increase of 0.8 percentage points this year. This is far too little to achieve in the labour market. The tax reform will increase growth by 0.5 percentage points over the next five years, alone from this title. – This revives the economy, which invigorates the labour market. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] We all agree that we pay too many taxes and that especially the relation gross no longer fits into net. This tax reform manages to relieve a total of around 6 million people. This is positive for employees and employees. Some 4.5 million benefit from the fact that the tariff is better. It also benefits the entrepreneurs and those who are responsible for income tax. There are 300 000 directly affected, 600 000 indirectly, because they also install. On the third level, there are many pensioners – perhaps just today in front of the television screens – who benefit not only through the tariff, but also from whom everyone receives a refund of 110 €. 110 € are 30 coffee per month or two tank fillings with a middle class car. We are therefore creating, in the final effect, a tangible relief in this area. Everyone always says: I do not feel the tax reform at all. – With the computer of the Ministry of Finance, which is also available via the ORF homepage, already 1.6 million people have checked their personal situation. Of course: Everyone surveyed sees their situation positively. I suppose it'll be more with today's day. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is then always said: There are not only those who do not pay taxes. Not only the small income recipients but also the middle class benefit. – Ladies and gentlemen, that’s exactly what you want! [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] Who pays the taxes? – 30 percent of the average. It accounts for 80 percent of the total wage and income tax volume. To relieve him was our goal to relieve him has also been successful. I think that is particularly positive. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Not here is the inheritance tax, not the asset tax, not the gift tax. Everyone who is now turning everything around three times in the acquisition tax and asking: 35 million euros will bring this, which has been received: This is almost an approach in the direction, they should look at what is €35 million in relation to €500 million and rates of 2% compared to rates of 20 percent. So there is: Recalculating, superioring and evaluating would be very good. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[call to the FPÖ.]] – Mr Commissioner, you can count on it. Ladies and gentlemen! It therefore does not benefit a party. You only need to see how many employees there are in Austria. If only one party were to benefit, it might have the absolute majority. As a party we are equally attractive to these workers. Second point. The self-employed and the unself-employed benefit equally. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] I've been talking to the pensioners. So it actually benefits everyone – you will also consider whether you benefit – who pays accordingly into the tax system. Therefore, this is not a tax reform for a party, it is a tax reform for Austria. That is the crucial point! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] In this context, it has been said several times that this is not an ecological tax reform. Some approaches are there, too. In essence, I believe, an ecological tax reform can only be implemented if it is internationally accredited. You cannot unilaterally increase VAT or other taxes. An increase in mineral oil tax would be problematic if the Germans did not do exactly the same. [[Abg. Steinbichler: Tax wood!]] We're connected to them. That is why I see the scope for an ecological tax reform more limited. Some believe that families would have been more inside. I can only tell you that for the families we have an increase to €440 in terms of the amount of the allowance. That's considerable. On the one hand, we take €1.2 billion for family allowances and on the other hand also for the extension of childcare. So this is also an approach that goes beyond the tax reform, which from our point of view is very positive. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is what we are dealing with in a question that is repeatedly addressed: Who benefits? Who loses? – Everyone always wants to benefit in Austria. All right! But as a third objective, I have mentioned that we need budget neutrality. If I need budget neutrality, then of course I have to ensure counter-financing somewhere. I believe that we have also been serious about counter-financing – not as far as the return on economic activity is concerned – that is what everyone likes to see. I call it VAT, for example. There are expert proposals that we should review exceptions to VAT. That's what we did: That's the 10-percent set. Why should food be promoted? – Sure, food has a social effect, rent detto. But in the final effect: For example, what is the VAT on food and gastronomic products in Germany? – 19 percentage points, with us in Austria 10 percentage points. Therefore: We have other competitive advantages in the area of favour. We have increased by 3 percentage points for hoteliers alone, which is competitive. That's unpleasant. [[Abg. Haider: Germany 7, Switzerland 3,5!]] - It's unpleasant. Please listen to me for a moment! [[Abg. Haider: 7 in Germany!]] Mention Please don't always see Switzerland! They lost 25 percentage points with the decoupling of euro and francs. [[Abg. Loacker: But that doesn't cash the state!]] There are real existential problems in tourism. But with us we are pleased to have in tourism the situation that we are not highly priced in the market, but in the middle price segment. That is why we will be able to bring in the 3 percentage points. If that is not the case, Mr Schellhorn, you will have a discussion on the international market if you raise your hand very high that we may be too expensive. I don't think we are. But I very much believe that next year, even if the consumer is buying-in – we have 30 percent domestic share – we will be able to charge 3 € of €100 in some way also towards consumers. This is acceptable and also a contribution. You need to see the relationships: €250 million at €25 billion – I think we should be able to finance this. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Arbitrator.]] Another point that needs to be addressed is because the programme is in it, the government is able to set aside €1.9 billion for fraud prevention. Ladies and gentlemen, how do we get to this? – Not by a flat-rate conviction that all tax frauds are, but by a very simple mathematical process, that is: Check out international VAT tables and compare to Austria! We miss about €3 to 4 billion. There's no one against it when you call carousel fraud and any Internet companies, but everyone in the sector says, but not with me. Ladies and gentlemen! Whoever screams very much sometimes has something to hide. I do not want to suspect anyone on a flat-rate basis, but if you draw up a register, if you also make sure that we do what we want to do, you will of course also get security in the billing with the financial office. You will also get an overview of your own conduct and possibilities. That's why I'd say: That's what we've got in many states. Let's just look at this without letup! Get your hands on it! I put a lot of bills in my head, and you all know the question: Needs You're billing? – So in the final effect, we are there at a certain point, which has always been tolerated in Austria. I don't think it should be. Ladies and gentlemen, then you also come to a question, which, also in the ORF, reads: If I can't blackmail this anymore, my company or my whole operation can't exist at all. - Where did we actually get there? We're talking about Parliament, we're talking about the government. Blackwork or fraud can't be a business model! [[Congratulations on ÖVP, SPÖ and Greens.]] It is not meant – so that no one is tipping around me – if you provide neighborhood assistance with very little effort, where you are practically free of charge. It's not meant to be moving in a bagato frame border and doing anything. This is where the commercial coup is meant, but also the commercial or intentional social abuse. Ladies and gentlemen! I really want to say: Look into Switzerland, which you always like to quote, or look You too, for example, towards the United States! The following is the case: Tax fraud, i.e. organized tax fraud, is theft in the Community. There, organized or intentional social fraud is theft at solidarity and at risk of solidarity. So from my point of view: We can't and don't want to afford that. We do not want to suspect anyone on a flat-rate basis, but that we simply create the framework, that is, I believe, a legitimate goal. That's where we are: Each of the experts tells us: If you have such high tax and tax rates in the final effect, you should not be surprised if this results in tax avoidance and tricks. I know many hotel owners who tell me how to charge commissions and others via London – without VAT. That's actually not all right, but it's just that, and we're looking at how it could be different. But it is clear, of course, that you will need lower wage taxes on a permanent basis and everything you pay in the context of taxes. I can only join the Minister of Finance, who, by the way, has provided great support with his ministry as regards technical and other details, when he says: If we pay all taxes, we all have to pay less to each other! Of course, the final effect must be clear where we're going. We must go there to continue the reforms as regards pensions, the labour market and the administration. There is no point in reducing revenue on the one hand, but on the other hand the expenditure is not under control. Ladies and gentlemen! Therefore, the consequence is simply the following: When it comes to securing pensions, we do not want to reduce benefits, we simply want to increase efficiency. We are actually at the end of this, so that I can keep my speaking time as well: The discussions will be opened. The final effect is Austria. The final effect is a modern, contemporary state, a competitive state, a state that operates in Europe according to the same principles as others. If we develop a common culture of cooperation with one another with this tax reform, we will also have a functioning system of mutual benefit! That's why it's all about nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e7404	We are now going into the debate on the statements. First of all, Mr Klubobmann Strache. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e7428	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen in the plenary room and in front of the TV screens! I can also very warmly welcome everyone here at the gallery, especially a group of seniors from Upper Austria and Vorarlberg, who are present today. [[General condolences.]] Thank you for having the opportunity to discuss this tax reform in the House today. We are talking about a tax reform, which will only take place next year, on 1st. January 2016, to enter into force. It will probably not be that easy to create a budget before. The development of this tax reform was already a bit dubious and critical. During the negotiations on the reform, we have experienced that we, the opposition, would in no way have been involved, informed or perhaps consulted. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] But after the presentation of the tax reform, we have heard that perhaps there or there a two-thirds majority is needed by the opposition – almost over the media, according to the motto, Mr. Klubobmann Schieder: Fresh, bird, or die! To date, no call has been made for us to start any talks or negotiations in this regard. What is already incomprehensible – one can also call it an insolence – is that we were called yesterday and invited to a kind of information privilege of Mr Finanzminister for today at 9 a.m. We should have been informed of this shortly before the debate on the tax reform, and of the further roadmap, while we have a plenary session, which was set by the President-in-Office. This simply does not belong, and it does not correspond to the dignity of the House to proceed in this way. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] – So far to a few uses and technical questions and details. There is a tax reform which is large from the volume – which was correctly addressed – and includes €5 billion. - Yeah, that's a big volume. If this volume were to be used exclusively to reduce taxes and taxes, that would really be the largest amount of a tax reform in the Second Republic. But this is not the case, because in reality we have to do with a Mickey-Mouse reform that is not a tax reform, but a collective reform, ultimately a shift and no relief from people. In Austria we have the highest tax and tax rate, and you are here today, Federal Chancellor and Mr Vice-Chancellor, and say nothing – I have not heard of it! – from a necessary bureaucracy, administrative and structural reform because you are world champions and world spending champions. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They cash the highest taxes and taxes, burden Austrian performance providers and those people who work as high as never before, but at the same time spend as much as never before, that is, still more than you take. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer]] This is, of course, a system that cannot work in the long run. It will not go without bureaucracy, administrative and structural reform, and that is exactly what we are completely missing. They are not ready to finally dismantle the red-black administrative bacon, because I have not heard a single word of that today. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Those €5 billion, which you are now taking control of the volume of a tariff shift, are – and must also be held – those billions that have been taken away from people since 2009 by the cold progression. That is to say, from 2009 until today you have pulled out of your pocket the people, the workers, the employees and the entrepreneurs through the cold progression €5 billion more. There it is the minimum to return these €5 billion to the people – but unfortunately this is not the case, and we will also highlight that. They have rightly reduced the tax rate to 25 percent. This is a good approach and also a long-standing demand from us liberals to flatten, lower the tax levels and ultimately reduce taxes permanently – but that is not the case. That is, we now have the situation that what some people will be left more net of gross by reducing the tax rate of input will be devoured in two years by the cold progression. [[Abg. Krainer: That's nonsense!]] That's the problem. They should have stopped the cold progression in a sustainable way – this is not the case, and in two years, people will ultimately get through the price increase we are experiencing, and above all through the higher level of taxation they will often fall into, which is no longer left. [[Abg. Krainer: nonsense!]] That's where you should have sat. But you have not been willing to eliminate this predatory automaticism that affects millions of people a year. At the same time, you go here and continue to increase taxes, although in Austria we have the highest tax and tax rate. They also increase additional taxes. As mentioned today, this is an unsavory bouquet of tax increases when it comes to VAT from 10 to 13 percent, which of course affects many consumers, in the end it is a mass tax, where it is about animal feed, cinema maps, museums, theater visits, taxi rides, flowers, hotel overnight stays and much more. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrary]] [[Abg. Krainer: nonsense!]] Yes, this is a tax increase that, after more net of gross in two years will be eaten up by the cold progression. This tax increase remains and will ultimately mean even more burden. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Loacker.]] At the same time, you also increase the KEST to 27.5 percent, which makes you exactly the middle class, the smaller and medium-sized companies that already suffer from the tax burden. Finally, with this increase you have made a further burden. In reality, there is a redistribution of existing taxes linked to tax increases. The tax rate does not fall. But you're making yourself up and talking about fighting fraud. They count on up to €2 billion, because in recent years fraud has obviously been going on and on. Then I wonder: Have you watched over the past few years so that this fraud has been possible? Have you left 17.5 billion € on the street and admitted organized fraud or not if you now suddenly insist that there should be supposed to be 2 billion € with the companies? [[Inter-remark of Vice-Chancellor Mitterlehner]] [[New interim remark by Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner.]] So this is a general suspicion, even if you say a hundred times that it's not a general suspicion. If you think you can extort these 2 billions somewhere else from the companies, then I am very excited about it because I do not consider the majority of entrepreneurs to be tax evaders. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] On the contrary, these have to bear the largest tax burden of the Second Republic and, in part, do not know how to continue their businesses. They are insolvent and do not know how to get over the rounds. However, these are small and medium-sized enterprises that ultimately secure and create jobs. And if they are no longer viable and can no longer survive, this will mean a further increase in unemployment, as we have a record unemployment today. With regard to registers – well, I am already eager to implement the registers obligation for farmer markets or on the mountain hut at an altitude of 2000 meters or elsewhere. If you do – yes, I'm already excited about it. [[Vice chancellor Mitterlehner: There is no such thing!]] So there are exceptions, that is, some don't need it? [[Abg. Lopatka: This is stupid! You don't even know each other! Then the blind one speaks of the color! Oh, my God!]] Or is it? Well, I'm already excited how to handle this from your side. There are also other experts, Mr Bundeskanzler, who have clearly criticised the government package: For example, the tax expert Werner Doralt sees counter-financing as absolutely critical, which meets almost exclusively the middle class. A general structural reform of the tax system has continued to delay the government, with only one billion being spent on counter-financing, says Doralt in the ORF-Radio. What I find really interesting, Mr. Vice-Kanzler Mitterlehner, is also a statement from you in the presentation of the reform. You have literally said the following: “Where, on the other hand, one can see that there are also reliefs in the area of wage and income tax, when it comes to, for example, the next collective bargaining.” – citations. So what does Mr Mitterlehner mean by this cryptic sentence? – Let’s say that in the next wage negotiations they are to be used to get the workers back to the little that people now have to put in their pockets with the reduction of income tax, by making pay statements below the inflation rate. [[Abg. Lopatka: Go! Do you still take yourself seriously, Mr. Klubobmann?]] After good night! That is exactly the statement that Mr Mitterlehner has given to the public for the very best. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They call themselves a business party, an economic party. – Well, “Economic Party”, good night! They have been responsible for the financial and economic ministers for 18 years and are responsible for the highest debt. But family party you can no longer call yourself, because the families are exactly those who do not receive the necessary reliefs here again, and especially they are increasingly in the area of poverty. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There you have to start with a family tax relief for several children, which is ultimately necessary and through which families save up to €7 000 a year, in order to pay for the much higher costs as well – yes, that is the state and administration reform where you press around. [[Interference of Vice-Chancellor Mitterlehner.]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] – This is exactly the point: 12 billion € per year are simmering there for years, and one is not ready to finally attack it. The increase in the basis of assessment for the inheritance or gift of property is, of course, a property tax and, of course, an inheritance and gift tax over the back door. It's nothing else! They're talking about a volume of €25 million. The question is: How many people who inherit per year meet the €25 million additional that they will have to pay in the future if they get something inherited or donated due to the increase you are doing here? This is very likely to happen once again to the middle class and those who have created ownerships over loans, which then have a value of €400 000, or a small reason with a house. 400 000 € can be reached quickly on the real estate market today! The credit for this may be broken down for more than 20, 30 years – and then you will have to pay in the end due to your increase over the back door again gift, property and inheritance tax. [[Abg. Wöginger: What does he pay for 400 000?]] [[Abg. Lopatka: What does he pay?]] A question remains open: Will the tax reform survive even the budgetary negotiations in the autumn? A lot of water will flow down the Danube until there. Unfortunately, in our view, a great opportunity has been missed here. The cold progression would have been the goal. It ensures that many employees, as well as pensioners, will automatically slide into higher tax classes and thus ultimately pay higher taxes without making more real income and without having more on the stock exchange in real terms in the long term. Unfortunately, however, God’s thinking has not really been thought about turning it off. Ladies and gentlemen! Low incomes often pay little wage tax, but three times as many social taxes. At present, they are also over-proportionally burdened by social contributions, and therefore, this has always been our approach, in the case of social contributions. In the end, a reduction for the insured would have meant that they had more net of gross, i.e. actually more net of gross on their account. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In other words, the small incomes would have needed the 200, 300 € net more, urgently, because the basic problem lies there in society, at all the increased costs – food prices, operating costs, rental costs et cetera. Just there, unfortunately, God did not come to the necessary relief, because there are 40 to 48 €, which now remain more net of gross per month, while, of course, the President of the Federal Republic of Germany will be able to celebrate a correspondingly higher plus on his account with 2 600 € per year. [[Abg. Wenninger: The grass has more!]] But, of course, this is something that many people are busy with, and that is something that you say should have reduced the social security contributions for small incomes so that there is a more tangible discharge left. I would therefore like to say once again: The state must finally start saving itself! And that's exactly why you're not ready. I can only repeat it again and again, even if you don't want to hear it: They're World Edition Champions! And that's where the problem lies. In Austria we have subsidies of 5.6 percent of gross domestic product, which is 16.5 billion € per year. We are European champions in this respect! The EU average is 3% of the gross domestic product spent per year. It is only in the area of subsidies that one sees how salopp is handled and what dimension and potential there would be. I am not yet talking about a necessary health reform with a federal uniform hospital planning, with a federal single funding stop, and one finally also looks at the fact that unadulterated construction projects are being implemented, which are first budgeted and which ultimately cause three times as much costs, after which one goes, as in Vienna, and the doctors put on the road, although we already have too few physicians today, and then continue to save on physicians, although in reality we need more physicians to maintain good health care for the citizens. There you go and save the doctors! That's all absurd what you have to experience here. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The tax and tax rate in Austria is still the highest – we have a tax and tax rate of 45.2 percent! Where is the principle of wishing to reduce these permanently? Where is the principle of reducing and reducing this tax and tax rate below 40, namely to 39 percent? This would in fact invigorate the economic location of Austria and lead to a corresponding recovery of the economic cycle. Unfortunately, you are not in the right direction of God right there. We have no revenue problem, we have an expenditure problem! And you've never been ready to do that. Thus, people will have to cry and suffer under the same maximum tax and tax burden and cannot see light on the horizon that this will eventually change. That's exactly your responsibility! And, dear ÖVP as a so-called former economic party: Yes, wear for 18 years You're responsible here. You can't make anyone know that the next, next year or in three years will be different at once. No, you have constantly led this country into the maximum tax burden, into the highest state debt and also led to the highest unemployment – thanks to dog tores, who is constantly philosophized and permanently giving the best of what work programmes he ensures so to speak. [[Abg. Lopatka: closing!]] Unemployment in the Second Republic has never been as high as today! It's for recovery!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e7761	Next come Mr. Klubobmann Mag. Arbitrators to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e7782	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Dear colleagues on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Appreciation here, which is a guest in the House, as well as those who listen to television at home and ask themselves the questions that are also raised by the many hundreds of thousands and millions of people already on the online computer, be it the SPÖ club, whether it be the Ministry of Finance, or the various newspapers, who have looked at what the tax reform means for them personally. €4.9 billion discharge, just under €5 billion discharge – this is a significant reduction in wage tax for the more than six million Austrians affected. The workers, the employees, the officials, the pensioners, who are also covered by the wage and income tax rate, as well as the one-person companies and the self-employed. It is important to stress once again how broad the discharge is set for all those who are called service providers in our country. However, it is not only that those who pay wage taxes benefit from the relief, but – which is actually unique internationally – even those people who do not pay a wage tax because they deserve so little that they are in the pay-free classes. Nevertheless, these people receive a relief, in the form of the so-called negative tax or, as it is now said, a reimbursement of their social security contributions, with the amount of this discharge being raised from € 110 to € 400. This is a milestone of social policy, but also of economic policy. For the first time, we have also added the pensioners, who will also receive 110 € – taking into account their compensation allowance, if they receive one. This is important because it not only relieves the poor, who go to work, but still do not deserve so much that they can live hard on it, but also because there are a lot of women among them. The proportion of women in this area is particularly high, and therefore it was also important for us, from an equal point of view, to carry out this discharge. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The families will also benefit from the doubling of the amount of child drop-off. We have managed one of the things we have discussed here so often among all the political groups, namely to create a modern income and wage tax rate, to reduce the crazy or economically wrong entry rate of 36.5% – before the Faymann I government starts – even to 38 percent above – to 25 percent, to make a flater curve as well – 35 percent to 31 000 € annual income, a 42 percent, 48 percent and 50 percent peak level – and also, limited to five years, to create a peak tax rate of 55 percent for millions of income. This is a modern and necessary tax rate and it also enables over 90 percent of the discharge, the volume of discharge, to go in favour of small and medium-sized earners, and that is what we think is correct in terms of economic and distribution policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I brought you a few examples. [[The speaker shall hold up appropriate panels.]] Let us look at the following: A single parent with a child with an income of 1 100 € saves 280 € per year. For example, she can answer a question that she has not been able to answer positively in recent years, such as how the school schizus course for the child will be financed next year. Another example I took with me: A pensioner or a pensioner, however you want to take it, 1 400 € pension, saves 560 € per year. This will definitely save her a monthly rent, if not even more. [[Abg. Kickl: Where does she live? In municipal construction?]] And that is also something that is necessary for the economy and justice. If we look at the families and a classical family, you would say – father, mother, two children – as an example, with the father earning 3 000 €, the mother for example 1 100 €, or vice versa, the savings amount to 1 580 € per year. [[Abg. Rossmann: What is typical of you!]] The question of the summer holiday in Austria has also been answered positively again, and the hoteliers in our country will be happy at the end of the day if the families can invest this money again in more summer holidays. [[Abg. Kickl: But only you do!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: Have you ever been on a summer or winter holiday in Austria by €1,580?]] Mr. Strache, if you ask me where I spend the summer and winter holidays I am very often in the Austrian mountains, I also know the mountain huts almost all and I am not like you always on Halligalli in Ibiza. [[Abg. Street: Go on a summer or ski holiday in the mountains! Let's see if you can get through here.]] That's the difference between us. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I have noted anyway that you have been a little bothered with criticising the content of this tax reform, which is why you have only been more sorry that today was an appointment that you cannot have come to. [[Abg. Kickl: You could have made the meeting at eight, we would have come, there we had no counter-event!]] It is also difficult for you to recognise that this tax reform may not fulfill everything that has been discussed here by all the parties, but by far what we have decided almost unanimously here to reduce the entry rate. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] However, I should also like to make a few comments on counter-financing. We have an economic effect, which was the goal of this discharge, in addition to the fact that people finally have more net of gross. – There have already been politicians who have demanded more gross from the net. We want people to have more net of gross, i.e. more money in the stock exchange, in the bag. [[Abg. Kickl: Your financial expert welcomed the reduction of small incomes!]] [[Abg. Straw: The Crane, yes! The crane welcomed the reduction of small incomes!]] And there is an economic effect behind this, because people – the middle class, the poor – spend this money immediately, because they urgently need to finance spending again, and this also goes back to the economy and ultimately back into the budget. That'll be almost €900 million. The second point is the fight against tax fraud: the register register, the possibility for financial authorities to investigate because banking secrecy is loosened so that no one can hide with black money anywhere, the fight against carousel fraud, the fight against VAT fraud, the fight against social fraud, where cash payment leads to the passing of labour law through the Fiscus, social security. [[Abg. Steinbichler: What is that state? Just fraud! What kind of mafia state is that supposed to be?]] These are measures that are urgently needed. And I don't understand the discussion that some have. I cannot understand that we want to protect black sheep, because economic justice also means that the honest entrepreneurs, the honest hoteliers, the honest innkeepers, the honorable builders are protected from the few black sheep who shove at the Fiscus by black money. Therefore, there is zero tolerance for tax evasion, and this package is an important one, including for justice. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kickl: You should ban the cash immediately!]] A long discussion on tax justice is always: How much do those who can afford it better? Or in modern economic development: How can these sectors also contribute something that has not yet contributed so much in tax terms? This means a redistribution from the labour factor to the capital factor. Here, the real income tax, which is finally aimed at the value of transport, the real estate income tax, the capital income tax increase for dividends – not for savings books – but also an important step with the top rate for millions of income, as well as with the building depreciation and the addition amount for service cars. And in the field of VAT, you may like it or not, but it can be done to the extent and to the extent of the limitation when compared to the volume of discharge. I would also like to add, however, that we are not just going to make a discharge, we are also going a step further and see how we can solve something economically where problems are. These include recent decisions on crowdfunding, medium-sized financing, raising the research premium and employee capital participation – which is also the best measure to ensure location, as employee capital funds will always see that their business owner remains at the Austrian site. The housing offensive or the common utility package are further additional steps that can also be seen in this context. How will the schedule be? – The Ministry of Finance will draw up the laws, then there will be an assessment period so that the discussion can also be held here on a technical basis, and then the discussion will return to the House, where we will then also lead it with all the opposition parties. The date today, Mr Strache, was only the first date of entry after the Ministry of Finance began to work on the laws. However, let me conclude by stressing once again the assessment of the tax reform, which is not said in Austria, but what the economics are saying abroad in Germany. Mr. Bofinger has already been quoted, he speaks of a big and courageous reform that significantly relieves workers with low incomes and pensioners. Mr Fratzscher, the head of the German Economic Research Institute, who was only at a panel discussion in Vienna a few weeks ago, at which Mr Kogler of the Greens and I were also on the panel said: Positive, courageous, exemplary, nationally meaningful in the EU comparison, increases purchasing power and contributes to growth. That is a good thing, and I think it is a very good tax reform.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e7988	Next, Mrs. Klubobfrau Glawischnig-Piesczek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e8010	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Honourable Members! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to comment constructively-critically on this project in the light of the Federal Chancellor's last sentence in his statement. Of course, it is a large volume that is to be moved in this collective reform, but it is very much focused on medium and higher incomes – I am going to talk about it. However, it is certainly not a real tax structure reform. I think that's undisputed. However, for me today, Mr. Vice-Chancellor – also Minister of Energy – was particularly disappointing. From my point of view, it has already been negative before the conclusion of this tax reform agreement, excluding any environmental, environmental steering effect in this tax reform. I think that's not responsible. We are here at a time before major climate change negotiations, where we also have to turn on these control screws. Environmental subsidies continue to increase in Austria. And, Mr Vice-Chancellor, if you insist that it is in the international equation that Austria cannot present in any form here, then you simply speak and take decisive note of the untruth. [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: How?]] Austria, you know, is sixth in the European comparison, in terms of pollutant taxes and in terms of environmentally harmful privileges – in sixth place! Internationally, we are in the lower third in the OECD comparison – in the lower third, not in the upper third, Mr Vice-Chancellor. I do not understand how you, as someone who is also responsible for energy policy, are completely free from climate change and toxic pollutants, the health of our children and of ourselves and you are drawing on such a really wrong excuse, it would not be possible in the international context. This is very disappointing of you today. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] With a genuine tax reform, we would be very interested in this – and I would like to ask Mr Finanzminister once again – if it really is such a great achievement not to look at the concentration of assets and attach ourselves to the flags that have prevented the big assets, the financial assets, the large billions of heritage and the foundations from making a higher contribution. This is already a very massive criticism from our side. There is much more precise discussion about this in other countries, for example in Germany. In Germany, a very intense discussion is being held at the moment, which means: Never before has so much wealth been inherited in Germany. Is it just that some, without working, get a lot of money and don't pay taxes for it? In Germany, a new inheritance law is being discussed, taking into account exactly this fact. Over the past 20 years, a lot has changed. We are no longer talking about the house builders, but we are talking about the big financial assets that you simply do not want to attack, we are talking about the top 10 percent in Austria, which protect you with your collective reform, where essentially no contribution from this sector is made. The 37 000 richest households in Austria – 37,000 households, a little less than the full Prater stadium – have 37 percent of total net assets. This is €470 billion or the 1.4 times of the total Austrian economic performance. I do not think it is an achievement to have made a contribution to this collective reform in this area. You don't need to boast of that. We are also very pained by the fact that, in the area of low incomes and especially in that of women's incomes, it has not been possible to organise a tax relief in such a way that women can benefit at least half, half of this relief. It is significant that you always come up with examples – even on the ÖGB homepage we find more and more such examples – that are far above the average income, the median income of women. That is why I would like to confront you again with the classic figures, i.e. with those income segments that are actually normal in Austria for women. For example: Tax relief of a secretary with a gross salary of €1 400 – that is the average median income of women; we have presented a tariff model according to which they really benefit, because in the upper range we would have made it much flatter –, full-time woman, 23 years old, perhaps not yet a family. – According to your model, this benefits at €370 a year. According to our model, it would benefit with 660 €. Next example: classic working mother, part-time; who has not 1 800 € in the family, but a gross of 800 € when she is part-time. – According to your model, this woman benefits at €290 a year. According to our model we presented, it would benefit with 1 100 € per year. And now we come to the highest income in Austria: Federal Chancellor Werner F., Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner, full-time employment. – According to your model, you benefit with not part-time, you have to say that, but full-time; I hope, full-time. [[Interference of Vice-Chancellor Mitterlehner.]] – So according to the red-black model, you will benefit with 2 175 €. [[Vice chancellor Mitterlehner: I donate it to you!]] According to our model you would get 308 €. They have boasted that a minimum pensionist gets 110 € a year. You said that's 30 coffee a month. What you're saving yourself is 1,000 coffees a month. [[Vice chancellor Mitterlehner: part-time employed!]] I'm a working mother, if you want to know, and I'm full-time. [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: Where?]] Parliament's Directorate if you want to know. Is it really necessary, I ask you to relieve so much in this high segment? I'm telling you honestly: No, it's not necessary! One could have done much more in the lower range. And that is also the point why women benefit so little from this reform. [[The Greens shall keep records on which the tax relief according to the SPÖ/ÖVP model of the tax reform is shown in the example of different incomes and according to that of the Greens.]] It is significant that on the ÖGB homepage there is not a single example of women who earn under the median income. That's kind of a beautification of this model. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There are also real losers according to your collective model. [[Interference of Vice-Chancellor Mitterlehner.]] But Taferl choreography has fit wonderfully.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e8113	Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! The sequence or the paragraph of the club woman, who has been dealing with the Taferls, seems to have ended. Now, let me ask you to put the Taferls back down. [[The Greens are putting away the above-mentioned tables.]] Please continue, Mrs. Klubobfrau!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e8138	I would like to sum up briefly: Certainly the losers of this collective reform are low-income people, so many women in Austria. However, even environmental and climate protection do not occur or occur in this reform. Under the wheels. Those who clearly benefit are people with great financial resources, those who inherit millions, so billionaires. Even at the foundations, you didn't attack. So from our point of view, these are all the shortcomings that must be overcome. At the end of the day, two rates for counter-financing. – Counter-financing is by no means 100% secured. On the contrary: We assume that at least half of it is built on sand. That is why we are also very concerned that in the coming weeks and months, especially in those areas that concern many people directly, savings packages and cuts will come. For example: The free kindergarten year is open, it will be extended this year. This is very essential for many families, i.e. a very important family policy measure. Or: The care fund is running out. These are all topics on which, due to a counter-financing that is not 100% guaranteed, but also because of the hypo, may float the sword of shorting and the sword of not being carried forward – and we do not want to do so! We would have wished for a collective reform, which covers a slightly smaller volume, about €4 billion, but has a serious counter-financing, in which the foundations, the super-rich, the big financial assets contribute somewhat, i.e. a collective reform, of which, above all, low-earners, such as many women, and also the environment have something.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e8183	The next item is Mr Klubobmann Dr. Lopatka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e8204	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Values Visitors here in the house and in front of the screens! If you have heard Klubobmann Strache and now Klubobfrau Glavischnig, the question arises: Is it possible to praise this government? [[Calls to the Greens.]] And last Saturday the head of the service of the “Salzburger Nachrichten” also asked this question. He comes to a clear answer in his editorial: Yes, you can! You seem to have forgotten what you asked for a few months ago, namely exactly what the government has now done: implement a collective reform and create a discharge for all Austrians. And this tax reform has succeeded, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I have to tell you one thing: You always forget what you're demanding. I mean, I can't always believe what you're saying here. After all, you came from a false premise, Klubobmann Strache, when you say: ‘More gross of net’. That's your OTS broadcast, sent out by the Freedom-of-the-art parliamentary group. Of course, what you have called for is more gross of the net means more net of gross. [[Abg. Strache: This is a childish thing!]] But then what's going on? That's why I'm telling you! Because then it is said that it is absolutely necessary to reduce the tax rate to 25 percent and to reform the tariff. - That's what we've done! But you left it all aside today. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] I am thus in what has been stated in the above editorial of the “Salzburger Nachrichten” where it reads: Some, however, like to lose sight of the positive big and whole. – This also applies to you, Mrs. Klubobfrau Glawischnig. – “Instead of voting in favour of the great Lamento, it would be wiser to recognise the positive and require further reforms from the government.” That's what we're talking about! This is how we see our task as the Austrian People's Party in the Federal Government, namely to shape it. A very important step – I emphasize: a very important step! – for us was this tax reform. And I'll tell you: It doesn't help the country and the people if you make things noticiously bad. And as one who is not talking about anything, you, Mr. Klubobmann Strache, will not get far. But that's your role that you take here every time, no matter what topic you're here on, no joy dances, but you might recognize that we've made 5 billion € in discharge. [[Abg. Strache: People dance joy dances on the streets!]] [[Abg. Strache: You've got a story!]] 5 billion € in discharge – this is a respectable result, Klubobmann Strache! This means more net of gross. [[Abg. Strache: You have re-storyed – not relieved!]] And that is what people have expected from this government and what we are doing with this tax reform. I would like to point out – and here I distinguish myself from you, Mrs Klubobfrau Glavischnig, serious – who is relieved. The large middle class is relieved – the examples of this have Klubobmann Arbitrators already brought – and of course also the families. Of course, the families are also relieved, for which there is this supplement. A doubling of the child allowance to €440 is something you could also recognize from your side. The middle class, the families, the service providers are those who benefit most. And I'll tell you one thing: I am glad that the beneficiaries of smaller incomes also benefit from the tax reform! But if I have so much less tax power, then I cannot have so much more relief through a tax reform. But I would also like to say: Those people who get up every day in the early morning, work hard, also spend overtime, have a lot of the tax burden to bear, we have had in focus! The hard-working, the liberals would say. [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Half of the women work part-time! Are they not industrious?]] That's exactly the ones we've had in the focus! To achieve something, we have made this tax reform. And there's also a supplement for the families. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schimanek.]] This is the manuscript of the Austrian People's Party. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In the case of counter-financing, this is not at all as it has been presented by strateche and you, almost simply a redistribution within the taxes. You know! 75 percent of what we have here in counter-financing is not based on tax measures. What we've done is very ambitious. If we do, this part is a bigger part than in previous tax reforms in Austria. Nor is it possible internationally to create three-quarters of the expenditure on counter-financing. We still have a lot to do with the fight against tax fraud, but not only in tax fraud, also in the area of social fraud, abuse of minimum security and in other areas. We will adopt a law here for the first time in order to be able to take action against social fraud. That is why this tax reform is only one step for us: the initial inflammation for further steps and reforms that we have to take! I am quite optimistic after the government clause in Krems, because we will be very, very careful to see whether the measures implemented are sufficient in very important areas, which also concern me, how the costs in the pension sector are constantly rising in millions. The Minister of Social Affairs believes it – but I lack the belief that this is really enough! I assume we have to take further steps, but we will see that. This is agreed by February of next year. Because the administrative reform was addressed: We will have a reform dialogue much earlier, as this reform is about to take place. We also need the support of the federal states. This will be in June of this year to actually create the cost-damaging path. To sum up, that means that this tax reform is a success. This has been so recorded by Austrian commentators, and this has also been seen internationally. Klubobmann Arbitrators have already quoted experts here. [[Abg. Kickl: The only two!]] It is important for us that this federal government, based on the tax reform, also takes the next steps of reform. This will be done by the Austrian People's Party in the Government. We will not stand on the reform brake, but the opposite is the case: We want to take this momentum from the tax reform for further reform, because we need these reforms! We have very clear targets to ensure that Austria returns to where we were and where we should be. Our objective is to keep Austria at the forefront of all areas within the European Union. We have laid an important foundation for this with the tax reform. But the further reforms that we have undertaken together with the SPÖ are still crucial. I am really excited at which of these reforms the opposition parties are then ready to go, or whether they will be stuck again in what they have done so far, namely, when they take a bad step and make it notable. That's too little, we need the opposite! We could also need your support here if we implement these reforms for Austria and for the benefit of the people of that country.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e8382	The next item is Mrs Klubobfrau Ing. Dietrich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e8404	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I start with something positive: Of course, we welcome the collective reform because it is absolutely right and should have been done for a long time! And, of course, we also support the package of entrepreneurs, which is important, with our view of the extent of the package. But absolutely problematic we see the financing of the tax reform. And if Mr Vice-Chancellor has said that there must be a mathematical formula in the field of tax fraud, I can tell you: Austria is not Greece! We have decent, honest entrepreneurs, and there is no tax evasion as in other countries. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] And the formula you applied was probably Pi times thumbs because all experts say that the financing of the tax reform is built on sand. What we would have expected is that we had the courage to have a structural and administrative reform. They always tell us how well Austria has managed this economic crisis. On Sunday, in the “press hour” of the WIFO chief, the crisis we now have is a home-made crisis, a crisis of the Federal Government because it is incapable of implementing reforms. Ladies and gentlemen! It is high time to finally implement administrative reforms. [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. Stroll.]] If you set a 1.7 per cent cover in the area of growth in management as a target, I'll tell you: That's not an ambitious goal! We demand a reduction in administration, which reduces 5 percent of the costs each year. That would be a reform that would also deserve the name! [[New condolences with the Stronach team.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We also want a tax-structural reform. We want simple tax laws – without loopholes, without grey zones! We want at the end of the day to have a simple DIN A4 set, on which you can complete your tax declaration. This is an objective in terms of administrative reduction! At all, we have a slim state as a goal. We want a slim administration. As a result, this means less taxes and less taxation for each individual and much more opportunities to develop business. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wenninger.]] We want to strengthen companies instead of hindering them as you do. And in this context, we absolutely reject the criminalisation of companies. It is always said that our businessmen would withdraw taxes and there would be many who operate in the grey area. I'm really asking you: Why does effective control not take place in the near-state area? Why is no one talking about ASFINAG, BIG, LIG, where millions and billions are managed, where construction contracts are awarded with huge volume? Everything's okay, there's no control. With us, only the entrepreneurs are the ones who are being criminalized. And on the other hand, let us keep our trust! [[Vice chancellor Mitterlehner: This is what the Court of Auditors is examining!]] A topic that really is my heart is the register. In Styria, for example, the hostess is one of the most locked areas. And whoever drives through the rural area with open eyes sees that one inn has closed after another. [[Interference of Vice-Chancellor Mitterlehner.]] What does the government do to help those affected, I ask you. I'm telling you, one shock after another! First remodeling force – smoker, non-smokers; now probably general ban on smoking; except for spices! Then allergen regulation. And now the registration fee is still coming. We're not talking about saving tax culprits, but we believe that for many the acquisition of the register fund is such an insurmountable obstacle that they say: What's next? We'll lock the deal right now! We know that innkeepers are the center of communication and that the innkeepers are probably the last infrastructure the rural area still has, because post, schools, police, department stores, they are all closed. [[Abg. Heinzl: Schools too?! - That's a nonsense!]] – Many small schools, Mr. Collegue! Open your eyes! [[Abg. Kickl: He doesn't know!]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: But not because of the register!]] That's why we're behind the host. We stand behind the rural area because it is important for a society. We stand for a simplification of the system and for a criminalisation of those who are willing to lead a company with a lot of self-initiative. What we need, ladies and gentlemen, is an economic upturn. We will only do this if we have an entrepreneurial environment; that is, if we do everything that young people are willing to become self-employed, and not just fear the horrors and criminalisation. Our goal is to strengthen Austria's economic location. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I would like to make the following request quickly:
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e8565	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Dietrich is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e8632	Next speaker: Mr Katzian. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e8654	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! When we were sitting together within the framework of the ÖGB and the Chamber of Labour, there were a number of conditions that did not taste our tastes and did not fit into the trade union perspective of wage policy. One of these conditions was that we make good pay statements and get less and less of these pay statements to people. A second framework condition, which we have heard here in this House together in the budget speech, was that income from the wage tax has for the first time exceeded VAT revenue. Based on these conditions, it was clear that something has to be done in the wage tax sector in order to give impetus to the economy. And if economic conditions are not the way we want them to be, if growth is not the way we imagine it, then it needs a boost for this growth. In an economy there are not very many parking screws, but one is sure, that purchasing power, the demand is an important swivel. It was therefore clear that if a wage tax relief can be carried out in a comprehensive form, this will further lead to an impulse for purchasing power and ultimately contribute to growth and employment. Today, we can say that this goal with the package on the table, with over 5 billion moving here, with over 90 per cent that is at work. In the case of workers who arrive at the maximum contribution basis, they have been reached. 882,000 people have contributed by their signature; I would like to thank them all today. You've been pressured, you've been pressured – and there's a great relief on the table! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, everyone has of course the idea of what discharges and counter-financing looks like, and it is also clear that there and there more or other things would have been expected. But I think that what is now available can be seen and that workers benefit. Because it has been said here that the lower incomes do not benefit or are even the losers – someone has said this before – I would like to give an example: Monthly gross content 1 500 € – that was achieved with 1. Years of trade in full-time; I think this is also an important and great success – so if someone earns 1,500 € gross a month, he has paid 1 133 € pay tax so far. The same person will pay €648 in future. This corresponds to a discharge of €485 per year or 42.8 per cent. Now to say that these people pay for it, so to say, dear people, that's not possible! Let's leave the church in the village! One can say that it is too little – I understand it – but to say that these are the people who pay for it is unsanitary, that has not deserved this reform. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] The second thing I would like to address is this lamenry because of tax fraud. So quite honestly: Every employee and every employee is taxed at the first monthly and has little or no design possibilities. Others, especially in the economy, have design options; this is also okay. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] I am not saying anything about it, but the things that are prescribed must be kept. I do not hear any criticism of the fact that something new has been introduced in connection with the fight against fraud, but it is simply about helping to break through what is already happening. And quite honestly: If someone is upset and says it's a scandal that they have to comply with the laws at once, then I really don't understand the world at all. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I say this very openly: Those who have not yet complied with it will now no longer have the possibilities they had before. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] We will look at this, and we will also look at quite different things – for example, the 170 000 people in Austria who spend 68 million unpaid overtimes a year. That's the next one! That's what we're going to look at: Step by step, one by one!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e8739	Mr Klubobmann Dr. Strolz is next spoken. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e8760	Mr President. Estimated members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen. Values taxpayers! Citizens in front of the screens and here in the hall! The tax reform is our subject today, and yes, Mr Bundeskanzler, Mr Vice-Chancellor, the reduction in income tax is correct, and for that there is our consent. Absolutely! We've been calling for that for a long time, and that's overdue for a long time. I believe that this will bring back to many that air for breathing that has been taken gradually in recent years, and that will be a temporary relief. You have to hold it that way. If you are now very benevolent and say that you are creating a blow of liberation, then you also have to say that in the years that are coming, you are taking away this air for breathing gradually, because you do not abolish this perfide mechanism, your automatic collection office called cold progression. You're missing mumm. You really have to make reforms in many areas, and you don't want to. That is why, in our view, it must be clear that this tax reform is not sufficient; it is not sufficient, in particular, for four reasons. First: The tax/debt pressure will be back at today's level in a few years and then continue to rise. Secondly, because I see young people up there: [[towards gallery]] This tax reform does not exist in the grand-fit test. She's flying out of the curve. Why?- Oh, my God! – You will not be able to invest in education. They can't make you invest in innovation, in research. [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: Oh yes!]] They will increase tax/debit pressure again in the medium term. If these young people earn in five to ten years' time, they will feel nothing more of the tax reform, but then they will be under a new tax and tax pressure which will have a level that we already have today or which will have increased even further. Thirdly, rapid unemployment, record unemployment. For two generations, for 60 years we have never had as many unemployed as we do now. This is also a problem for this generation that grows up to touch NEOS as the voice for the next generation. [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: Lauter Pensionists!]] So thirdly, you do not have a recipe against rising unemployment, and fourthly, you show with this tax reform – it hurts and also has to do with unemployment – that you do not understand an entrepreneurial Austria and that you do not respect entrepreneurship. I can prove it, too. They have no respect for entrepreneurship. You are not aware of what it means to take responsibility for jobs. You're not aware of that. I have the impression that you have no respect for it because you do not express any appreciation – and do not put it in law – for those who take risks with what they are with what they have with what they can. That means being a businessman. You have too little respect for that. Five evidences for this: You have no respect for it, for example, because you do not have the courage to hand over the millions of difficult civil servants' pension privileges in Vienna to the mayor of Vienna. You don't have the courage to do that. However, they have at any time the determination to continue to put the smaller and medium-sized enterprises in the sweat box and to tax them higher capital income. Second example: You do not have the willingness to reduce the obscene high amounts of party financing. On the contrary! They further increase party funding – although we are European champions – every year, but They do not have to put any geniuses, entrepreneurs under a general suspicion and put additional bureaucratic pressure on them. Third example: They have not decided to take action against aggressive tax planning and tax flight internationally – social democracy and conservatives have ruled Europe for decades. They have shown no determination in all these years. [[Abg. Arbitrators: After what is that?- Oh, my God!]] – Mr Schieder, look at it! Even now not determined enough, look at it! Starbucks, Amazon et cetera will continue to drive their aggressive tax optimization models, and while Starbucks continues to practice it and the government does not push it forward, the gastronomy is faced with higher sales tax next door. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Little.]] That's not fair! They cut off the middle class. They have no idea what it means to pay double salaries if they snow in, and then the social security, which also doubles. You just don't know that. - No respect! Fourth example: They are not ready – even though we have been calling for this for months, for years, for decades – to put together the 22 social insurance institutions. No, your Director-General, your President, your institutional company car! They are not willing to put this together or to remove other inefficient federal structures. But you're gonna go up the top-level base. In this Republic, as a net payer, the air is left out of you if you are treated in this way. Fifth example: They are not ready to finally modernise in commercial law or to remove other bureaucratic monsters. They block entrepreneurial initiative in Austria. But you are willing to continue to increase the forced contributions for the Chamber of Workers and the Chamber of Commerce with this tax reform – and therefore there is a applause of the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce. These two – the Chamber of Workers and the Chamber of Commerce – are silent profiters of this tax reform, they will benefit from additional forced contributions in millions – by increasing the maximum basis of assessment on the one hand and by increasing the turnover tax on the other. That is why Mr Leitl will, among other things, have agreed, although he has received a No from the Economic and Social Committee. He then fell over in the party board. Yes, in this Chamber State, of course, they are looking forward to these forced contributions that continue to rise. To sum up, this is the message: You, SPÖ and ÖVP, are enemies of an entrepreneurial Austria. This will translate into further rapidly rising unemployment. The message from this government to entrepreneurs, to more than 250 000 single-person companies, to which the remaining quarter of a million entrepreneurs is: Don't make people! – This is the message, so it comes to entrepreneurs. And that's a problem for this country. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Wöginger: It's very important that you said that now!]] We've told you how to do it. We have also given it to you: a discharge of €8.4 billion with a reform programme over eight years. We are also setting up €3.5 billion for investment in education, research and innovation, and we are also setting up €3.3 billion to repay the debt service. [[the speaker holds up a brochure]] We have done this once again in a pedagogical way, and I will give it to you again. I think it's just central that you're dealing with these things. [[Vice chancellor Mitterlehner: That was even more understandable!]] – That was even more understandable? – It is this time even with pictures, Mr. Vice-Chancellor, if you find the time. [[Abg. Wöginger: You'll probably read it to us anyway!]] Yes, for you as men of action, who would like to mark the Django, the man of action, I would have a proposal today: You can work today! They save on entrepreneurs, on net payers and on net payers, which is a bit stressed, but you are not prepared to make cuts in the state and in the fat chamber and party state. You can prove otherwise today. Once again, we bring NEOS to the motion for a resolution that we reduce party funding, the highest in Europe, to a reasonable level. If you follow this request from NEOS, then we are still European champions, there is no need to impoverish a party and no chamber apparatus. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Show the citizens whom you demand so much tax and taxes – even in the next few years the tax and tax pressure is increasing – that you are willing to make savings in your own home too!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e8916	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Klubobmann Strolz is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e8975	Next speaker: (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e8996	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Strolz, there are some things I would like to say. You're not at the last level today, but I think that's not my fault. The objective of this tax reform was clearly defined for the EIA: Reduction of income and wage tax and a clear no on substance taxes. This goal has been achieved. The middle class is relieved – entrepreneurs as well as all performance-oriented citizens. Secondly, substance taxation has been avoided. This would have been extremely damaging to our labour and economic location, because 1 billion more in wealth tax means a reduction of 0.65 percent in GDP growth, which we could not have allowed ourselves in view of the present situation. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Even if envy debates and class struggles are always native and mediatatable, please do not underestimate the mobility of companies. Not only the large ones are willing to go abroad, but also mobility among SMEs is increasing. What would happen then? – Entrepreneurs go and the unemployed stay. The counter-financing of this largest collective reform of all time cannot be exclusively achieved by increasing consumption and short-term management. In addition, it will be possible to reach EUR 1.1 billion. The latter is nothing for Mr Strache – I think it is important! Only objectors can believe that this would have been possible differently. For the displeasure of those concerned I understand. But I don't understand that you continue to pour oil into the fire and subject the entrepreneurs to a general suspicion. I may also point out to the Secretary of State of many entrepreneurs that they are very disappointed by her appearance “In the Centre”, for there she has confirmed these lump-sum convictions again. In his studies, Professor Schneider proved that Pfusch is widespread in all levels of the population. It's not the first thing you have to go to the service providers in our society. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Steinbichler.]] We from the ÖVP support the need to combat tax, but above all social fraud, the protection of fair economic operators and fair conditions of competition for all. Therefore, some adjustments still need to be made. I'm just thinking about the company transfers, the AfA, but also the registers. Fortunately, Mr. Strolz – probably you haven't had the documents yet – is the business package for entrepreneurs, because it contains a very successful crowdfunding model and also the SME financing company. I would like to thank our Secretary of State and, above all, my colleague Werner Groiß, who has been very much involved in this. It is a large package for vocational training within: 18 new contemporary careers, an increase in the research premium to 12 percent, facilitating SMEs' access to public procurement and much more – i.e. congratulations on this economic package! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr Finanzminister! They have announced that the tax reform is the first step towards reform and should follow. In the meantime, the topics have already been defined and Terminized. It is precisely this entrepreneurial pace that we need, because we want a modern, citizen-like state with an efficient administration, a future-fit pension system and a contemporary educational landscape.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e9059	The next item is Mr Ddr. Fuchs. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e9081	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! High house! Values Advisors! As we have heard today, the German Government's approach is not a tax reform, but merely a wage or income tax reform. In reality, from 2016 onwards, taxpayers will be returned €5 billion, which they have been taken away from since 2009 by the cold progression. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Stroll.]] But the cold progression must be stopped immediately. We therefore call for a regular adjustment of tariff levels to inflation. From the great discharge of the families, as announced by the ÖVP, nothing has been done. Only 2% of the tax reform will benefit families – by doubling the amount of the child allowance. By increasing the child allowance, an average family in the month is €5.50, which is 18 cents a day. [[Interlocutors Kickl and Kitzmüller.]] The Federal Government has so much left for the families. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Na bravo!]] The free-dominant family relief model would relieve a family of up to €7 000 a year. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: 800 million!]] Mr Vice-Chancellor, you can speak later, you do not have to cry out here. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In view of the current record unemployment of 10.3 percent, a reduction in small and medium-sized enterprises is essential, particularly in the case of additional wage costs. What good is a tax relief for citizens if they do not have a job?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The Federal Government, however, does exactly the opposite. It puts the entrepreneurs under the general suspicion of levying and imposes higher charges on small and medium-sized enterprises. Red-Black extends the depreciation period for buildings to 40 years. Reason: in the sense of simplification of tax law. [[The ironic hustle and bustle of the Abg. Schimanek.]] Rot-Schwarz increases the KEST to profit distributions from GmbHs, knowing that family GmbHs will in future face a total tax burden of 45,625 percent, starting from the first euro. Red and Black reduces the education allowance and the educational premium, although education seems to be very important to them. Red and Black affords business payments by increasing the base for basic income tax, red and black increases the maximum social security contribution base and thus affords the labour factor. A reduction in additional wage costs will be postponed to the long-term bank; it will only come from 2018 on the condition of budgetary coverage, which means: as good as never. Red-black increases the immoest, and red-black believes to be able to fight tax fraud with the introduction of the registration bank obligation. Not for nothing, protests of economic operators were held in front of the Federal Chancellery last week, and rightly this government was referred to as graves of the tourism industry. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The tax privileges of private foundations and large corporations through group taxation are not at all shaken, although the Republic of Austria thereby escapes hundreds of millions each year. And if Mr. Klubobmann were to refer to the Arbitrator on 13 March. March 2015 in the ORF broadcast “Ronder Table” meant that the private foundations are very much burdened by the Kest increase on dividends, then I can correct Mr Klubobmann today: Private foundations do not pay taxes on dividends, because the foundations enjoy a generous tax exemption. But apparently the SPÖ has discovered its love for the millionaires. Two examples of the new red and black millionaire relief rate: A top earner with a gross monthly amount of 84 124 € – monthly! – is relieved with 2 171.62 €. So: a discharge of almost € 2 200 – a year, yes – at a monthly salary of € 84 000. [[Call the SPÖ:In the year!]] Next example: Only with a gross monthly income of € 87 898 remain 33 € per year less in the Millionaires Stock Exchange. – So much for social democratic tax justice! For those who do not currently pay a wage tax, the negative tax will be increased or introduced for the beneficiaries of small pensions. With the negative tax, the taxpayer can recover part of the social security contributions by means of the tax charge de facto. However, since many taxpayers are experienced to make no tax compensation, which the Federal Government apparently calculates, it would have been more honest to relieve the micro-earners and pensioners directly on social security contributions, without any reduction in benefits. [[Interim remark by Minister of State Schelling]] In addition, it is also not reasonable to force a pensioner or a resident of an old-age home to pay – possibly an electronic – tax return. So take away before, and then you have to get the money back by the charge, that's not the right way. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This concept of the Federal Government merely leads to a redistribution of existing taxes linked to tax increases. The taxpayers themselves finance their forward tax relief. This reform will not lead to a reduction in the tax rate. Sustainable state and administrative reform is not really addressed at all, so the problem of expenditure remains unsolved by the Republic of Austria. The major beneficiaries of this reform are the top earners, the private foundations and the large corporations, which are at the expense of small and medium-sized enterprises and the low-income contributors. Social justice looks different.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e9203	Mrs Wurm's next speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e9224	Mr President. Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! Dear ladies and gentlemen here in the house and in front of the TV screens! €4.9 billion the government is taking control of this tax reform. That's a lot of money. It benefits 6 million Austrians. [[Abg. Steinbichler: The government does not take any money into its hands, the government takes tax money into its hands!]] 90 percent benefit small and medium-sized workers, and this also helps women in this country above all. [[Abg. Steinbichler: tax money!]] I am now explaining by examples what this means for women in the country. [[Abg. Steinbichler: With tax money!]] [[Abg. Maurer holds a panel in the height on which the SPÖ/ÖVP model is compared to the green model under the title ‘Tax relief’.]] The seller, full-time, learned, a few years of service has already brought her behind, earns about €1 700 per month. It then saves itself by the tax reform from 1. January 2016 690 € per year. This is perhaps the better washing machine, which is the joint trip with friends, which may also be saving for a new facility in the apartment. Second example: A part-time single parent with a child earns about 1 000 €. The discount on social security is 290 €. With this she may be able to afford a school ski course for her child who would otherwise not have been possible. [[Call at the FPÖ:Christmas 2016!]] This kid can join us. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Schimanek and Mr Deimek.]] – Don’t talk small, that’s a lot of money for the family, for the woman! Pensioners earn on average, as we know, 900 €, which means 110 € credit per year. [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: (two tables similar to those of the Abg. Keeping Maurer in height) That's not necessary! Does it have to be that the highest incomes are so relieved?- Oh, my God!]] Do you know what that means to the pensioner? – Maybe she can then go on a trip of the Pensionist Association or the Senior Confederation, perhaps she can pay an additional hairdresser visit per month, whatever she wants! I'm talking about women and media income. Of course, I'm also talking about full-time women. Mrs. Klubobfrau Glavischnig, thank God also to women who are academics, there are doctors, there are teachers, and they too have earned discharges in this country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Do you have a few examples?]] Ladies and gentlemen! In summary, we have promised: This tax reform makes for more net of gross for workers. – This is what happened with this tax reform, as it is planned and as it is to be decided here. All Austrians have some of it. [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: The Austrian women are much less!]] [[Abg. Deimek: We pay ourselves all this!]] So much to say: We will not eliminate the injustices of income between the sexes by means of a tax and tax reform. This is about the better evaluation of the work. This is about women earning more in different professions, be it in the care et cetera. That is where we have to put, and for that we always do something, the income transparency law and, and, and. This tax reform has created a lot more justice.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e9411	The next speaker is Mr Mag. Rossmann speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e9432	Mr President. High house! Gentlemen on the government bank! Gentlemen, yes – on it will come to speak again. [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: The speaker is not necessarily female either, is he?]] – But we have already had a female speaker who has been very committed to women. So, now we're starting. Mr. Klubobmann Lopatka has asked for praise. Let's start with praise! The tax reduction, not a question, is important. However, it comes at a very late date. Why it is important, there are many reasons for this: The net real income per capita has stagnated since 2010, there is the cold progression, the economy is very weak. The second thing I would like to praise in this tax reform is that the tax relief does not explicitly exclude those who do not pay a wage and income tax. I expressly say: Wage and income tax! This does not mean that these people do not also pay social security contributions and indirect taxes, which in sum means that the lower incomes across all taxes are de facto taxed the same as the highest incomes. That is, we actually have a flat-tax model in Austria. A third point that seems to me substantial and where I want to give praise is that at last – at last! – the fight against fraud in this country, in Austria, is started. But no praise without criticism! Let me start with this criticism; with examples can always show everything and nothing. [[Abg. Krainer: You better start with the praise, otherwise you forget it again!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] I can also start by saying: A woman with an average income of €1 400 – fully employed – is relieved of €370, which is net 2.4 percent. [[Abg. Gisela Worm: Full-time or part-time?]] A full-time or part-time member of the national council or a member of the national council is deducted by 3.2 percent. In fact, it is not fair to call that. Now you can look at the entire scale from the bottom, from the lowest income to the highest income. This is what we are doing and we are comparing the government tariff with the green rate. [[The speaker shows a graphic]] The government rate is the black one; it can be seen that the lower incomes are actually reduced below average, that from about € 2 000 this rate begins to rise continuously, up to about €3,200 gross incomes, and then it re-enters. This shows, therefore, that the strongest discharge is in fact not the lower income – that is simply and simply wrong – but it lies with the middle and the upper. By the way, I didn't create this graphic myself. I have had the analysis carried out by two research assistants from the University of Vienna, Mr. Stefan Humer and Mr. Mathias Moser, to give the whole thing a little more weight. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Kickl: This is a Van der Bellen graduate!]] When we look at the green curve, we see that you can do this with less money, namely, €4 billion, quite differently. As a result, lower incomes can be taxed much more heavily, including those who do not pay income tax and income tax, and then make a course that leads to a continuous decrease in net tax burden, so that high incomes are then significantly lower than the incomes below. [[Abg. Kickl: Recharged!]] I cannot therefore agree with those, especially the Minister of Women, who are not here again and again, who say that the lower incomes and therefore the women are more relieved. That's simple and just not the case. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Klubobmann Lopatka, who meant that the performance carriers and the diligent were relieved. That's a special class chuzpe! As if women, 50 percent of whom are employed in part-time jobs, were not industrious! [[Abg. Gisela Worm: Because the men don't work at home!]] And why are they in part-time employment? – Mostly not voluntarily, but because they care for children and do care work! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Steinbichler.]] To call these women not industrious, that is really a cowardice! - That's what he meant. [[Abg. Obernoster: He didn't say that anyway!]] He has spoken of the pros and cons of those who are relieved. [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: They also pay the most!]] On the contrary, the conclusion is probably the one we must draw. Once again, Mr Vice-Chanzler, they pay the most wage and income tax, but you always have to take into account that, of course, lower incomes also pay significantly more social security contributions and indirect taxes, so that at the end of the day, Mr. Vice-Chancellor, we have a flat tax rate. [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: refund!]] Once again, studies by the Economic Research Institute have shown that for more than ten years. [[Abg. Darabos: Flat tax is something else!]] This is why, as the discharge is just in the middle and above, this rate is also not accountable for the economy. In economic terms, it would be a tariff which would relieve the lower ones much more strongly than it does. In fact, one could do much, much more for the economy, because all that is in the pockets of the stakeholders of high and high middle incomes goes more or less one to one in savings books, in securities, in any shares – at least not in private consumption. It is crucial how much of this reduction in tariffs goes into private consumption. I'm just in doubt. This reform – this is the next point – is certainly not a tax-structural reform, because it lacks very important things, especially more social justice. This tariff alone is already one that worsens social justice. I have forgotten to mention what this collective analysis of the two research assistants shows that within the group of women the distribution situation is worsened by this rate. [[the speaker shows a table]] That's what it looks like. [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: Have you ever heard of transfers?- Oh, my God!]] - We're talking about tariff relief here. If you cut the transfers, Mr. Vice-Chancellor, I can calm you down. The study of the WIFO, which I have spoken about, also takes into account the transfer services. So: Social security contributions, indirect taxes, wage taxes, including transfers essentially mean a flat-tax rate for low incomes and for higher incomes more or less. That's how the truth looks! - No, that's not wrong. [[Abg. Krainer: That's wrong!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Look at the WIFO distribution study, Jan Krainer! Look at the report of the Tax Reform Commission! [[Abg. Krainer: I know!]] There's this graphic inside, too. If you have read this report, you know it, and you can't help it. [[Abg. Krainer: Exclusive social transfers! Without social transfers!]] Ladies and gentlemen, what is also missing... [[Abg. Krainer:... pensions!]] [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: They're not inside that!]] [[Abg. Krainer: The pensions already, but not the transfers!]] [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner:... are not inside!]] However, what is missing is more social justice in the tax system and ecologisation in the tax system. It is already significant that the rich and super-rich in this Republic do not, of their assets, provide virtually a cent to counter-finance this tax reform. With their income: yes, with their dividends: yes – income millionaires have to make a small contribution, 416 in number, just ridiculously – the capital income tax on dividends is raised a little bit. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Woeinger]] But the rich make virtually zero contributions from wealth – and that in a country where we have an extreme imbalance of wealth, which is only higher in the USA than in Austria! That, ladies and gentlemen, is embarrassing for this country, that is unbearable! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I simply do not understand why in the EU there are 19 states with an inheritance and gift tax – in Germany private foundations are included – and in Austria this is not possible. Yes, the ÖVP has prevented this, and the SPÖ has been too weak to enforce it. But I think this is an intolerable situation, because as long as it fails to introduce a tax on assets in Austria, in particular an inheritance tax and a tax on foundations, we will never have to deal with a socially just, fair tax system. Of course, it would have been possible to reduce the burden on the environment by means of an eco-social tax reform. In this sense, not only is the climate protection of the losers; in this sense, of course, there are also those losers that would have been sparingly treated with energy that consume much of the pollutants. Losers would have been those who deal generously with pollutants and waste energy. However, winners in the event of an eco-social tax reform would also have been those whose additional wage costs would be reduced. It is obvious that this tax adjustment is not an issue for the relief of non-tariff costs, or whatever it is to be called. [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: It is a tax reform!]] – Tax reform of course not, no! A reform is something else, because reform must be subject to several criteria, namely those which also change the tax structures. I believe that the Economic Research Institute, Mrs Schratzenstaller, Mrs Köppl, the European Commission, the OECD, the IMF will not be tired of demanding tax structural reforms to the Member States. But the Austrians – in particular the Federal Government here is deaf on both ears, it does not listen, or blind, because it does not read what is in the recommendations. [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: We do not need...!]] That's why nothing goes on here either. Finally, on the fight against fraud and counter-financing: Counter-financing is on tone legs – this is already to be emphasized here – in particular the self-financing effects, but also what is called administrative reform and support reform. If I read here that an administrative cost path is to be run: I'm sorry, reform has nothing to do with it again. These are either cuts in expenditure on property, or they are cuts in staff, but something else is not. In the field of support, it is the same: If this is to be shortened linearly, it has nothing to do with reforms, because this is the lawn mower, and that is what it is about. Tax fraud – one last –: I see that as positive, and it's actually high in time for something to happen here. I still think back with horror of the times when Wilhelm Molterer prevented the development of a tax CD that was delivered to the Ministry of Finance. And I still think back with horror of the time when Maria Fekter prevented automatic exchange of information within the framework of the Interest Tax Directive. If there had not been the OECD to put Austria on the black list, we would not have reached where we are today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e9782	Mr Rossmann, am I right to assume that you have decided not to table the motion for a resolution that I have tabled? . I assume that this is the next speaker in your group. [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: The speech was so good...!]] [[Abg. Krainer: The speaking time...!]] The next item is the speech by Mr Wöginger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e9827	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Members of the Federal Government! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is already significant if one of the largest discharge packages available or given in the Second Republic at all is simply misrepresented by the opposition. There is no question that those points that can be considered quite differentiated are being selected. But if only these points are clarified here and you actually lose sight of the whole thing – and you, Mr Rossmann, still support your communist approaches to this tax relief package – then this reform has not deserved it, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We relieve people of over €5 billion. It is simply not true that there is no economic recovery, no boosting of the economy. – Of course she's connected to it! If we make more money available to people, leave more money in the stock exchange, then of course this money will also be reinvested. This will naturally increase the purchasing power. [[Abg. Kitzmüller: Eben: if!]] Let me once again list how we relieve ourselves: with 4.5 billion in the tariff, with 400 million in the lower incomes. Ladies and gentlemen, in the lower incomes sector – there is no wage and income tax paid there! – are people who are already exempt from the tax. You will be refunded up to €400 in the future, including farmers and self-employed; and at pensioners we will also introduce the €110 via the social security credit. Ladies and gentlemen, this is one of the biggest social projects we have ever had here in the House. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] However, it is primarily about the relief of those who also pay taxes. If this is misrepresented as follows: The lower incomes are nominally less relieved here!, then I have to say yes, that's right. Ladies and gentlemen, that's true, but percentages of lower incomes are much higher: At €2,000, it is 30 percent; in contrast, it is €4,000 14 percent. Let me tell you what a person who has 2 000 € of gross income per month pays for wage tax in the year: There are 2 908 €. If a person earns 4 000 € gross a month, he pays 11 233 € in wage tax. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] That means that more than three times the wage tax is paid here, although you only earn the double! Ladies and gentlemen, we now relieve at €2,000 gross with €882 a year – as I said, that is 30 percent of discharge – and at €4,000 we relieve with €1,557. This is about one and a half times, although the triple tax is paid and the double is earned. It must and cannot be a shame if you earn a little more through performance. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have a socially well-balanced package here, where there is much higher and greater relief below, especially in the area where there is no tax burden at all. Second point: Families. Yes, it is true that we would have wished for more, a higher allowance for the children. But I really recognise – even in view of the circumstances that we have in general, also in the budget – that we can double the child allowance: from 220 to 440 €. This helps families with children, ladies and gentlemen! We also raise the family allowance by 1. January 2016 again on and with 2018 again. In addition, we invest over 300 million in the expansion of childcare facilities for under 3-year-olds. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kitzmüller.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This reform concept also bears the manuscript of the Austrian People's Party as a family party, and we are proud of that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] At the end of the day, there is still something about counter-financing. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neubauer]] Of course, counter-financing is more than ambitious, and of course it is not easy to counter-finance a 5-billion package. But two comments – Mrs Glawischnig is gone again, just like Mr Strache. The two great opposition leaders here in this House briefly waver the speech themselves and then cast themselves out of Parliament. [[Abg. Kickl:... watch TV!]] We know this from many of our meetings, even when it comes to very important measures. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Mrs Glavischnig, what the Greens would like to see is the following. If electric cars are taxed, you should not criticize the other points, but you should actually keep a Taferl up and say: Dear service car drivers, buy electric cars in the future, because there is no need to pay for this! – This is also stated here in this programme. One thing was also written to Mr Strache in the main book: The statement on the acquisition tax is simply wrong. There is a Council of Ministers' proposal that should perhaps be looked through. Mr Kickl, when you write the speeches, you should at least quote correctly, including from this paragraph: Up to €250 000 is now lower in the basic acquisition tax than it has been before. The €400 000 has also been mentioned: 400 000 € as a transport value, so to speak, with a small cottage and 1 000 square meters of ground. That means 4 250 € are to be paid if I get it or if I inherit it. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, usually you inherit or get gifted once in a generation, that is, every 20 to 25 years. From my point of view, it is reasonable if this amount is to be paid, because of course you also get the value. [[Abg. Kickl: What is the state's performance for this?]] All in all, I praise this project: It is the greatest relief for the people in Austria who have been there in the Second Republic!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e9969	Next, Mr. Ing. Lugar in word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e9990	Mr President. High house! We've heard a lot already. [[Calls and calls between representatives of ÖVP, FPÖ and Greens.]] But I think I have to give an example so that the citizens understand what it is all about. Imagine, I am a businessman, my employee comes to me, wants 100 € as a salary increase, and I say to my employee: No problem, I'll give you 100 € on top of it – but at the same time I'll delete 20 € in supplements and 80 € as a credit in the name of the employee, which the employee will then have to repay with interest interest. I think the staff would ask me if I'm down. But that's exactly what's happening here! This is exactly what is happening here The government allows citizens to pay for this tax reduction themselves, with interest rates. [[Intervocations at SPÖ and ÖVP]] That is to say, one takes up a credit on behalf of the citizen and reduces taxes on him, but this needs to be compensated on the other hand. Even if the counter-financing works: We're making permanent debts. That means that it is not at all a question of whether this concept of thinking which you are building here, namely this counter-financing, works or not, but it is a matter of making new debts at all! That means: No matter what the state does, as soon as the state reduces taxes, it pays the public, as long as the state is not willing to do its homework, as long as the state is not prepared to save where it would really be saved, because that would be the right order. Now I'm not saying we don't need a tariff reduction. Of course, we need tax relief, of course, people have also earned tax relief; it could even be higher. But we can't afford them. And if we afford it, we'll afford it on pump! That is to say, the citizen pays for himself, not even to the fullest extent, but even more: with the interest rate to be paid at some point on this loan that is now being taken to do something good to the citizen. If you look closely at it, it's not a coincidence. That we now have a tax reduction is not a coincidence: The government operates electorate at voter's expense! That's how it works. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] That is, the government does nothing but take a credit to do something good to the citizen and hope to be elected. The fact that the citizens who ultimately have to pay themselves, with interest and interest rate, will be kept silent. Apparently, most of them don't even get along, and that's the problem. [[Abg. Kickl: (in the direction of ÖVP) Maybe we can also come to these distributors!]] That is, when we say that the citizen has earned a tax reduction – and he has done so for God's sake, he has done so, and indeed... [[Abg. Arbitrators: Now she's coming!]] That's right! Only she needs to be earned first, and that would be your job. If you say, Now she comes!, then she comes too early because you normally have to do the homework first. You have to make all the savings that also legitimize this tax reduction, without new debts, without new debts! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Call the SPÖ: When would you do it?]] When would I do it? – You don't do it until 2016, you don't do it anyway. [[Abg. Arbitrators: But you only do it in 2025!]] Therefore, nothing would have been in the process of making proper reforms now to make the savings that are necessary. There are many areas: Let's just look at the proportion. We have been in Austria since the Second World War, i.e.: No matter what position is occupied, whether it is a state company, in the state area or in distributed societies, there are always two, one red and one black. Do you know what to get in money alone?- Oh, my God! Or look at corruption, because the big fish are lost 26 billion each year by corruption in that country. [[Abg. Rossmann:... the liberals!]] 26 billion, we could afford a lot of tax reductions! But do you know why nobody does that? Do you know why you're going to host why you're heading for the host? - Because they don't have lobby! But all those who actually mix firmly with corruption – we hear that again and again, you just have to hear the news to know what's happening there – have a good line to politics, and that's why you don't look at it. That's the point. Now go to the innkeeper. I can tell you a secret you already know: Yes, of course, there is also tax evasion in the hosts. This is not a question, of course there is. But we have to distinguish one thing: Does someone have taxes to buy the second yacht, or does someone withdraw taxes to survive? It is therefore not better, but you have to allow him to survive legally in this country at all, with these taxes, with these laws, with these bureaucratic barriers, especially at the hosts! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] If you want to look closely at the hosts, you must first give them the opportunity to make everything legal. If you don't, then you're gonna block host in a row, that's a fact. That's why: Look You don't go to the hosts exactly until you've created the possibilities that they can really survive! Don't look at the accounts of the private people, where perhaps the craftsman will help out on the weekend, but look where you should really look, under your own bedcloth, because there people who actually intervene in dormant do not just look at the citizens' pants, but already in the citizens' underwear! [[Congratulations with Team Stronach]] That's what it looks like. [[Intervocations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Look Go to the ÖGB! We just heard that again, didn't we? But then suddenly there is a great amnesia, and nobody knows how these lubrication payments went. [[Abg. Arbitrator: Oh yes!]] There's the money to get, look here and stop harassing the citizens! Look where there is really something to get, and then do your homework! Make the reforms, and then we'll talk about a tax reduction. It must then be stronger than now, it must be so that the citizen says: I don't get an alms on it, but I'm going to be compensated for what's been done to me over the last few decades. If you look at the fact that the workers have lost 17 percent of purchasing power in the last 15 years, you can see: We really need to do something, not pump, but substantial. As I said, Do not bother the citizens, do your exercise in your area at last!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e10154	Mr Krainer is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e10176	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Lugar, quite frankly: If you come out here, talk about corruption, then point to the ÖGB in connection with the lake purchase and say, you don't know exactly how the money flows were, then I have to say, we know that very well! The flow of money was such that your party friends in Carinthia, their former party friends in Carinthia, transferred €700 000 or more to Carinthia, where she herself says that she did not perform anything and then handed €700 000 in cash to Jörg Haider and other Blues, Oranges or Team Stronach, wherever they were. [[Abg. New builder:... or the ÖGB!]] That's what happened! This is a moral image of you personally and your political friends, at any time whether they were blue, orange or at the Stronach team. [[Congratulation with SPÖ and ÖVP]] That's your moral image you're drawing. And wanting to push anyone into the shoes here is more than pitiful! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Street: The ÖGB has invested 15 million!]] [[Further calls.]] Ah, here comes the right one! All right, let's talk about it. There's the right one coming in at the door: the colleague Strache. [[Abg. Strache:... overcrowded! Mr. Hundstorfer, what do you say?]] [[Federal Minister Hundstorfer: Mr Strache, please don't...!]] [[Abg. Mr President, what do you say about this?]] [[Federal Minister Hundstorfer: But that's all wrong!]] [[Abg. Tight: back-handling!]] Mr Strache has said here that it is the smallest tax reform ever. We only remember how he spoke in 2004 about the biggest tax reform ever – as FPÖ has put the Finance Minister, she was in the government – the biggest tax reform ever. How high was the average discharge of an Austrian at the time? How high was it? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schimanek.]] Do you remember? – I can tell you: € 7 per month discharge; the biggest tax reform of all time à la FPÖ. How high is she now? – More than 100 €! The small discharge is 100 €, the largest 7 €; only to have a relation, as the liberals see it. And then the speakers of the Freedom Party come out and complain about group taxation that it would be so expensive. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Who put them in? Who has introduced privileges for stock options from managers? Who was that? – That was the liberals! Who abolished this and restricted it? – The Social Democrats! [[Abg. Mr Neubauer: Mr President! On the matter, please!]] This is the difference between blue and red, big speeches of the blues on one side, and we act and bring something to the point. There's something else you can look away from. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kitzmüller.]] Mr Strache has said record tax rate. [[Abg. Street: Now 45.3 percent!]] Yes, that is true, there was a record tax rate under a blue finance minister, the highest tax rate ever. [[Abg. That's where your nose grows!]] Now the SPÖ is in the government, the tax rate is much lower, and there is a clear discharge. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That's the difference between blue and red, you can look down on something that's talking big and the others are acting. That's a certain difference. [[Call the FPÖ: Just like the swap in Linz!]] [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] Mr Rossmann said something completely right, he said that one must also praise the government for this tax reform, but he does not want to start with praise, but first with criticism. What I feared then came in, and he no longer came to praise. - Maybe you can make up for that. He said a lot about the proportional tax system we have, and he quoted the WIFO study. This means, relatively regardless of income, whether a person earns 1 000, 2 000, 3 000 or 4000 €, if you calculate all taxes together – that is, indirect, i.e. VAT, social security, wage tax – then all pay between 34 and 37 percent taxes, but by the social transfers there is a difference. This is the social study, which also shows that the social state is acting because it is also redistributed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] [[Abg. Strache: You celebrated the income reduction!]] It does not work on the revenue side, but very well on the expenditure side. This is the second part that was missing here. For us Social Democrats, this way of tax policy – since we have been in the government, we have followed it very consistently and have also been addressing it again and again – is not yet over, but we are taking not only one, but many great steps in this direction today. We have the problem that in Austria taxes and taxes on work are too high, even in international comparison, whereas taxes and taxes on capital and assets are low, also in international comparison. [[Abg. Kogler: Bravo!]] What we have done since we were in government is that we have gradually reduced taxes and taxes on work and increased them to wealth and capital. Today we are taking another step where we will decide in the next few months, where we will be massively reducing. [[Abg. Kogler: Income from capital! Capital transfers!]] 90 percent of the volume is for small and medium-sized incomes. Yes, also very well earners, like all of us sitting here, will pay less taxes. Part of this discharge also goes to us, but 90 percent to small and medium-sized incomes. And at the same time, the contribution that comes from wealth and capital to the financing of the state will rise. Since 2007, we have taken many steps as to whether this was the bank tax, the limitation of the privileges of the foundation, a number of assets and property-related taxes. This way, let's go. Today, another important step is being taken, even in the coming weeks and months, but it is not the last one, because what is true is that we still have a disproportionate relationship after this tax reform. In one step – we have always said that – we will not be able to eliminate this misunderstanding. But today and in the coming weeks and months we will take quite a lot of important steps towards greater fiscal justice. That is why we are supporting this and we are very pleased about this tax reform, because we are massively reducing taxes and taxes on work. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e10450	I call Mr Hable. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e10471	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! High house! Estimated citizens! NEOS is a young political movement, but we already have a tradition. And the tradition is that we not only criticize when it is necessary, but also put constructive proposals for solutions on the table. This is what we have done, and we ourselves have drawn up a tax reform concept. “Less – simple – generation-friendly” is the motto of our tax reform. That would have been the criteria for measuring a tax reform that deserves this name. [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: Aha!]] Less because you need to lower the load, easier because you need to light the tax jungle and be generation-friendly, because debt making should finally end. You have done the exact opposite, as measured by these three criteria. They didn't relieve, but they didn't. They have applied the principle of left pocket and right pocket, on which one side lowers taxes, which are raised on the other side again. You have done nothing to lighten the tax jungle – no simplification of tax bureaucracy in view – and of course you have not contributed to generation justice, the debt making continues. What is also missing and a central pillar in the NEOS tax reform concept is the tax autonomy of the countries and municipalities. Why is that so important? – Because a necessary reform also needs this tax autonomy for countries and municipalities in the area of taxation, even in the area of finance. We have to redesign federalism, because the Austrian style of federalism functions as follows: You order one and someone else you send the bill. This principle that one is ordered and someone else's bill is the mother of all waste of money in that country. As long as If you do not address this problem, massive money will continue to be wasted. I should like to give you an example from the practice of my home country Upper Austria. The Westring is to be built, so to speak, a motorway ring in the west around the city center of Linz, originally with two destinations, on the one hand to relieve the Linz city car that goes through the city, and on the other hand to relieve the commuting traffic from the Mühlviertel, which stands in the coniferous eye every day in the Weststeinfahrt near Linz. What happened to it? – They have built a bridge, right at the core of the city, they have to strike two holes through mountains and do not solve these two problems. There is no relief because this part of the building lands in the city centre just as much after the tunnel, and they have provided the bridge so close to the city center that it is only once again that the commuters in Puchenau are in traffic every morning. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] No transport policy solved. But why do you do that? [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: That's where we needed you to find out!]] Why do you do that? – You build this bridge there so that you can somehow integrate it into the city highway network. And why do you do that again? – To allow someone else, in this case the ASFINAG, and thus the Federation, to handle the costs. [[Call the ÖVP: Shit!]] This is the principle: One orders the bridge and someone else, the covenant, one sends the bill for it. It's gonna have to end! Therefore, we are proposing NEOS as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] That's exactly what you find in our concept, which is necessary. They have the opportunity to take part in our request to vote for more responsibilities for federalism, for tax autonomy for countries and communities, for responsibility, but also for greater scope in countries and communities. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e10568	The application is sufficiently supported, properly submitted and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e10631	Next speaker: Mr Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e10652	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The public comments were quite hearty: With the tax reform one expects with little movement, there is nothing going on anyway, there is not much on the table. Some have even seen the government in danger by saying: Does the tax reform bring down the government? Is this coalition breaking down? The government has taught the skeptics of a better person, not only is it not broken, but it has also put a very neat concept on the table. Humor on the edge: Mr Lugar, for you it is still too early for such a discharge of citizens. – A curiosum in this discussion. A tax reform that can be seen, which says: Relieving citizens, securing the location and strengthening confidence. And the discharge of citizens is necessary. You all know this from personal conversations when people say that I'm getting less and less money, everything gets more expensive, I can't afford life anymore, and the mood is bad. It is therefore important to counter this. People need real relief, and they need it now, especially in economically difficult times, in order to strengthen their purchasing power and boost the economy. This is in all our interest. Therefore, it is important that people feel more money in the wallet, and above all that performance is worth it. Performance must pay off so that people can also be motivated to want to do something. By reducing the income tax rate to 25 percent, real movement is coming in. We heard the bill. On average, the discharge will amount to around € 1,000 per year. All people are relieved: the middle class in particular, but also low-earners, pensioners. After all, about 6 million people, workers, entrepreneurs, farmers, families, pensioners, are expected to benefit from the € 5 billion. It is very important that there is no property tax, no property tax, inheritance tax, gift tax, property tax. All of this would have weakened the economic location of Austria and, above all, punished those who have created something in life; and this is precisely what it is all about. We want from the ÖVP that people can work out something that people can create something, an apartment, a house, a reason to build a business. I think it should be our overall social goal to motivate people to be able to do something, because that gives them security by creating values, and that also motivates them to become economically active. [[Abg. Kitzmüller: But you also have to do something for it!]] In particular, it is important that companies are not weakened by property taxes in their substance and therefore are not disadvantaged in competition. This also applies, in particular, to agriculture. Today, like all other sectors of the economy, agriculture is facing huge global competition. Property taxes are harmful. In addition, the farm farms have been managed for generations, and they are to be passed on to the next generation without loss of substance, because this is precisely what ensures a land-based farming. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Some say that the farmers would have targeted the tax reform. This is irrelevant because the tax reform is a balanced approach. After all, the agricultural sector, which must be aligned, has had a reduction in income in recent years. Adjusting the rate of sales to 13 percent and increasing the income tax on real estate was achieved, and the main determination of unit values took place. This is important for agriculture, but it can also bring increases. Therefore, the requirement to adjust the unit value to the transport value is to be clearly rejected. The farmer lives from the yield of his fields, the farmer does not live by selling his fields, so he puts them on the market. Therefore, the transport value must be rejected and the return value, as the unit value represents it, the right value. It is therefore important that no additional burden is incurred in the case of operations. It is also important that the tax package was secured. There is an incredible polemic on this subject. Recently, an expert explained that farmers are legally taxed by this package. This is an immense accusation, which is scandalous and hardest to reject, because it provokes an insatiable debate of envy, which is not at all appropriate. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Steinbichler and Mr Pirklhuber.]] The fact is that the tax package is an unbureaucratic form of taxation, which has proved to be proven, for small businesses – the large farms are nevertheless obliged to account, including in agriculture. All those who want to have a tax controller behind every dungheap will see how difficult the income in agriculture actually is that there is not much left. In conclusion, thank you very much for making it clear that the average rate of tax is raised from 12 per cent to 13 per cent and – also important – that rural development is not attacked in the cuts in support. It is income-effective, which makes us an example in Europe, because it is intended to motivate farmers to operate environmentally sustainable agriculture, in the mountain area, but also on the flat land. It is therefore important that these rural development programmes are not shortened. There are commitments. – In this sense, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e10711	I call Mr Willi. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e10732	Mr President. Mr. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Do you also smell the lot of incense that has already accumulated here? “The biggest tax reform of all time” – said the Federal Chancellor. I want to try to make this superlative critical consideration. If you look at Austria internationally, you notice that we have two problems. First: The distribution of assets is particularly unfair in Austria; from all Western countries to the USA, the second most unjust. That is, very few have quite a lot and a lot have little. Secondly, Austria has once begun to become an environmental model country of the European Union. In the meantime, we are back-bankers, because we are far from complying with the contractual obligations we have entered into through the Kyoto Protocol. Instead of minus 13 percent on the greenhouse gases, it's a plus! That is to say, we need action in two ways, and that is exactly what the Greens want, precisely with this tax model we have taken up. Standby one: Creating justice through a redistribution of the 10 percent of the richest to the 90 percent “rest. ” Second stand: An ecological tax reform, in order at last to increase the consumption of fossil energy, to increase the taxation of resource consumption, and to redistribute the money that is being used with it. Both pillars make up €4 billion, and with both pillars one can shift from rich to poor and in the other case of pollutant production to the relief of households and to relief in respect of additional wage costs. You from the coalition have begun with the “greatest tax reform of all time”, and my colleague Bruno Rossmann has shown you the table that this brings. I have translated this into actual discharge, i.e. in euros per year. (The speaker presents a table with the picture of a red-green column diagram under the title "So many € remain in the stock exchange rate per year. 90/10 model of the Green (green) – government model (red)” in front of the speaker’s desk.) On this table you can see the incomes listed from 700 € gross to 8,000 € gross. Green is the green tax model, and red is that of the government, the Federal Chancellor. What do you see? – The greens give those with very low income much more, up to the triple. [[Call the ÖVP:But only in theory!]] Then we are consistent in the range 1 500 € to 2 500 €, and then we split up again. Then again, while the ÖVP gives more to those who have a lot. This confirms again the old sentence from Matthew 25, which the ÖVP so cordially welcomes: Whoever has, it will be given. That is to say, we have a tax reform that serves the very few earners disproportionately, which in the middle gives about as much as we do in our model and those who deserve very well. That's one thing, and it's annoying me. That is unfair! They of the ÖVP are a Christian-social party and always speak of the “Christian values”. Second: The eco-social tax reform is completely missing. They have planned a small increase in domestic sales tax on eco-social measures. Correcting You're just 1 percent – 1 percent, Mr. Amon! – aeronautics privileges. And then you've got something in the service cars. If you look at the service car privileges in total, then you see: You're correcting 3 percent of these privileges. This means that you are miles away from an eco-social tax reform. For this, you tax pellets and the timber construction, which is becoming more expensive. Under the rule, your eco-social tax reform looks like this: Flying abroad will not be more expensive, domestic hotels and nocturnal hotels will become more expensive. We Greens say: That's not how it is! The excuse of the Minister of Economic Affairs, which can only be said in the international equinox, is a shame. Look at energy taxes, pollution taxes in other EU countries and you will notice that we still have a lot of room for action there! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That is, without a second stand, we will not continue without eco-social tax reform. We continue to depend on the countries from which we obtain our crude oil: This is Kazakhstan, this is Nigeria, this is Russia, this is Libya, this is Azerbaijan, this is Saudi Arabia. You go to the hostages of these countries if you continue as before. I have here the “Austrian state-of-the-art report on climate change 2014”. It reads: More rainfall in winter, less in summer – it will become drier. Less snow cover – the glaciers shrink. Mures and stone blows are increasing, the damage events and the extremes are increasing, including the amounts that we have to spend on the limitation of damage. In short: This report states that climate change costs a lot of money. But they don't mind. I would like you to always talk nice, but when it comes to making a big tax reform, don't do it, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP! [[Abg. Steinbichler: The wood they taxed!]] The incense that you have tormented here today is not appropriate: We will critically crush your tax reform over the next few months.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e10796	Mrs Vetter. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e10817	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Minister! High house! The democratic transformation of the Republic into a late Marxist workers' and farmers' state continues. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] This is why we could call this collective reform if we did not want to follow the government, not its propaganda, and not the mass media close to you. What the Faymann government is trying to do here is a social-democratic customer loyalty program, and I also believe that the tax rate is still too high. Investments are not stimulated at all – at most in homeopathic doses – and in consumption only the sub-area of the lowest income level. The medium-sized person pays the tax savings on higher social security contributions, VAT increases and forced savings for higher basic income taxes themselves. Economic stimulation by exclusively increasing the purchasing power of the lowest income falls into the category of neo-Marxist voodoo-economics. According to the motto that the same distribution of poverty is desirable and that the uneven distribution of wealth is reprehensible, the focus of the political considerations is not on achieving but on the fight for distribution. Therefore, the capital market does not play a role at all in all these considerations. In Faymann's reign, there were practically no stock exchanges at all. On the contrary, just a few days ago another company announced the withdrawal from the Vienna Stock Exchange. The money travels to the Far East, Singapore, Shanghai and Hong Kong. And what does the Faymann government do? – It increases the capital income tax and therefore coupled the peak tax rate. With this attitude, the Faymann government can also increase the peak tax rate to 100 percent, for example from an income of 10 million, so that capital income tax can be 50 percent, because, as we know, there are constitutional reasons that link both. If the glass entrepreneur is created, then no one needs to believe that only the others are affected. As far as the next tax reform is concerned, if the greedy state imitates its citizens, the banking secret for all domestic farmers can be to be aired. And since this will not work out, the next tax reform will continue to make all the customer cards available for finance in our country's building markets. No one should be fooled, this tariff correction is only going ahead against entrepreneurs, but in reality against all the citizens of that country. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] As an example, consider the families that will be particularly affected due to the double increase in the basic income tax – the tax base and the calculation basis. I say to families because trade, industry and farming are supposed to be excluded. In the case of property tax, the government's plans will lead to a massive discrimination against private property, on which our market economy is based. In particular, private home ownership will be heavily disadvantaged. Those who have to pay inheritance tax and an integrative fee every 25 years – and this together is almost 5 percent of the transport value – must earn more than an insurance that leads to an interest-rate house in the investment assets and cannot die. With a yield of 2.5 percent, this means a disadvantage of 5 to 10 percent over commercial landlords. If these redistributive measures, as a tax reform, will have a national economic effect, then those that will further boost the parallel economy. If the Faymann government wants to address this effect with the introduction of the financial police state – the registration fund, the abolition of banking secrecy, the perfection of surveillance – the hypo and ITA states take another major step in the fight against the ownership of its citizens. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] It would be right to massively reduce both taxes and taxes, to massively reduce the hypo-state and to give citizens more freedom. This redistribution has allowed the opportunity to significantly reduce the tax and tax rate. With our 15 billion tax reduction concept, we from the Stronach team have made the appropriate preliminary work for a real tax reform. What the Faymann government is proclaiming here as a tax reform is actually useless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e10887	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e10908	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Estimated members of the Federal Government! The majority parties already have some experience in making the mountains cry out and then fight for the fatherhood of the born mouse. What you're selling us as a tax reform here is a correction of the income tax rate, that's all. If we look back at the wishes of many sides – a structural reform, an administrative reform, a pension reform and, on the other hand, inheritance tax, wealth tax, rich tax or whatever you call it – we see that there are a lot of things, quite a lot of wishes left unfulfilled. We wonder what the Chamber of Commerce – where the entire segment of tourism is now under the tax policy wheels – has caused the Chamber of Workers and the ÖGB to observe silently now that their wishes remain unfulfilled and that their clients are only served on the edge. I asked myself a few questions as to why the stakeholders accept what red and black show here. The answer was quickly found: With the extra-tourical increase in the maximum contribution base, we are still rinsing a few million extra in the red money store workers- Chamber, with the increase in VAT rates for various goods and services, we increase Chamber 1 for the Chamber of Commerce, and the black money store also gets a little money, money so that these organizations keep silent and don't get upset now. I would call what you packed in your alleged tax reform package political silence money. It cannot be the function of a “tax reform” – under quotation marks – to further bloat fat chamber organisations. Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] The raised maximum contribution base produces another winner in your alleged tax reform concept. This is because Mr Sozialminister – unfortunately he is no longer here – who has a huge hole in the pension system, through the increase in the maximum contribution base, a three-digit million additional in pension insurance. And next year he'll be up there saying, What's up, colleagues, it's all great anyway. The development of pension insurance is great. The federal grant is much better developed than we decided in the 2014 budget roadmap. And all those who insist on a pension reform that is urgently needed are standing back because you have slept and are rinsing additional contributions to the pension insurance institution to the Social Minister. – Whoever pays, that doesn't come from anything, you take away the people who have to hack properly. Then I have to say something about my colleague Worm's statement: Her picture of women is sensational. If I were with the SPÖ women, I would feel badly represented. For what does a woman do with the money she has from the tax reform? – She goes to the hairdresser, the woman told Worm, and buys herself a washing machine. That is an inconceivable definition of what a woman can do with more money! What you are actually producing with this tax reform is that you hold the women in part-time. With the negative tax, you will produce further incentives to stop working as everyone will wonder if they will work little and collect negative tax or work more and burn wage tax. And then you'll be surprised if the women in the pension have less than the men. This is your policy that drives women into poverty traps! A structural reform is not complete, it has already been said. We would have expected a major tax reform to be introduced, which will be removed from this additional cost-orientation of our system, which allows the communities to collect their revenue for their own expenditure responsibility on their own initiative. And we would also have expected you to take the countries a little more into responsibility when it comes to building housing. I would therefore like to make another request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e11004	The motions for resolutions are sufficiently supported, properly put in place and are therefore under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e11124	Next speaker. Mrs Mag. Brunner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e11145	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers, here with us and also at home! I would like to start by briefly saying something about the urgent need for praise expressed here by the representatives of the government parties. I'm a little surprised because I think that if you were convinced that what you're doing and what you're proposing to us here is the right thing, you wouldn't be dependent on the praise of others and you'd be able to keep criticism and represent your position properly. I think it is very significant what you are saying here. However, I would like to draw attention to Mr Lopatka's comments. He asked us to take a look at the whole thing. I would also like to do that, as it is precisely the tax system. The tax system should specify the framework and framework conditions for the whole and show where Austria should go in the future. Unfortunately, I do not see it in your proposals. For me, a tax reform would be something to look at, what problems and crises we face and where we have to counter, but also what opportunities we have and where we want to go. What you are presenting here is not a tax reform for me. With all due respect, if I pick up something that the state would have been able to do for a long time, it is natural for everyone to do so, but not tax reform. You have not given an answer to the greatest crisis we face in this century. Unfortunately, there is nothing in your proposals about the climate crisis. The fact is that every person who lives on this planet today, and every person who will still come on this planet, will be affected by the climate crisis, even here in Austria. Mr Willi did this. And we – we need to be aware of this – are probably the last generation that can still decide and make changes positive. Changes will in any case be the result of the climate crisis. The question that arises now is whether we design it or whether we just let it happen and see what happens. I am in favour of making it and taking advantage of the opportunities. The government seems to want to dive through and put its head in the sand. If we want to design, we now need to ecologize the tax system. Mr Bundeskanzler, in your statement today the word ecologisation has not happened once. This is both significant and shocking. I already know that environmental policy, climate policy in SPÖ is not really a topic, but for a German chancellor in the 21st century. It is unbearable and insufficient in the 20th century. The vice chancellor, who is now no longer here, has mentioned this. His reason for not being able to make an ecologisty now, however, I do not understand at all. Firstly, this excuse is only in international comparison, not true, because, as I have said, we have not been in the forefront of taxes and taxes on pollutants for a long time, but are in the lower third. In addition, I am tired of always hearing, we cannot do anything as long as nothing happens internationally or at EU level. We were once environmental model country. We were a pioneer once. We can also act independently in Austria – and I would expect that from a government. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I do not understand this from a minister of economics, because 2008 to 2012 was not only the period of climate change in Austria, but precisely in this period, despite climate crisis, the eco-industrie grew by 15 percent internationally. That is why I do not at all understand why a minister of the economy does not rely on this sector. In addition, last year we adopted the Energy Efficiency Act – the Greens with SPÖ and ÖVP. This means that you – the whole federal government – have an obligation to take measures that save energy. It would be time to make an ecologisation here. The greening of the tax system is necessary as never before. Moreover, the time is now as cheap as ever, at low energy and especially at low oil prices. And ecologicalisation would at last serve to ensure justice here, too, because it is not to be seen that contaminants of pollution always get away and pay the public every time. That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] They have not submitted anything but a single measure which does not deserve the name, namely the increase in VAT on pellets. For me, this is an attack on renewable energy, an attack on the companies that already have difficulty at low oil prices. That is why I make a second request: Resolution Mr Christiane Brunner, Mr Bruno Rossmann, colleagues, on no climate tax increase for pellets The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Government and in particular the Federal Chancellor, the Vice-Chancellor and the Federal Minister for Finance are invited not to implement the planned increase in the reduced VAT rate for pellets from 10 to 13% in the framework of the collective reform." As I said, we are the generation that now decides how to deal with the climate crisis. Austria needs an ecologicalisation of the tax system and Austria finally needs an independent, strong and committed Ministry of the Environment and Energy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e11257	The motions for resolutions are sufficiently supported, properly put in place and are therefore under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e11399	Next speaker: Mr Schellhorn. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e11420	Mr President. Appreciate Mr. Federal Chancellor! Dear Minister on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! The subject remains the tax reform; we have been talking about it for over three hours now. And it's right, yes, it's also important that people have more net of gross. It's a real step. I only had to think briefly about what new film or what new film title would fit to the German Chancellor and Mr. Vice-Chancellor, and it is clear: “... because they don’t know what they are doing.” It is not about the question of their beauty – they can argue about who now the James Dean wants to be or not – but about the following: These two young people – well-knowingly – are driving the car into the abyss, and we in Austria are doing the same, and that is actually the terrifying thing. If the Federal Chancellor mentions that it is in the interest of Austria to carry out a tax optimization, then it is very much in the interest of Austria and the next generation to carry out an expenditure optimization. This is not a tax reform package, it is a tax adjustment package, and that is the point. What I'm clearly missing here – except for the few papers we've seen so far: Where's the big picture? Where's this vision? Where is the next generation to go? What is being targeted at? – All of this is missing completely, very massively. I should also like to comment on the right of access. This entrepreneurship bashing is on my nerves. Let us take the discussion honestly and say: Okay, if the entrepreneurs need a register, then every remedial teacher also needs a register, because he has a minimum turnover of €15 000 soon. You also need to have a clear discussion about what the care is, because the care discussion was already there. And what is in it, there is not taxed either – but you can easily step on the entrepreneurs. When Klubobmann speaks of a few black sheep, the question arises: Isn't it a general bashing against the entrepreneurs now? He's talking about some black sheep. We don't know anything here!Unknown term type: "%s".? Is this about €900 million from some black sheep or is this about all entrepreneurs? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] To these black sheep: There is a mentality here, which is psychologically clear to see how badly both government representatives have defended and excused themselves. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Are you now for tax evasion?]] Then I'd like to say something: In your election campaign you always had in mind that the small and medium-sized enterprises, the entrepreneurs, are the economic backbone of this society. They broke their backbone. [[Abg. Arbitrators: I don't quite understand! Are you for tax evasion? Are you for it or not?]] You have broken the neck and you have triggered an entrepreneurial depression, which is not even foreseeable. The depreciation package is an insanity, not only for tourism, but also for the whole small and medium-sized enterprises, for the craftsmen. What do you think is now investing in? – You have not over-smoothed it, and the ÖVP has been put over the table as an entrepreneurship party with the basic acquisition tax. [[Abg. Arbitrators: You didn't talk about it!]] This is much worse than the inheritance tax. You know that! They still congratulate you, the others have lost. Mrs Steßl, the State Secretary, was also asked what she is now talking about invoicing. There's the E131 regulation. Do we want to retrofit again now, with INSIKA? – I don’t even think she can answer the question herself. [[Abg. Arbitrator: Yes!]] The E131 is manipulative, that's what all businesses had to do. Before I come to the Entrepreneurship Party (ÖVP), I can say that I believe that in the government there is fear and Gusch, under the motto: If the head and the clums say something, everyone else has to stay out! Whether it's about pensions or not... – It's not the case with us. [[Abg. Arbitrators: This is the case with you.]] But what has become of this entrepreneurship party, the ÖVP, which no longer conveys any picture at all. ‘R.I.P. Economic ÖVP – this wreath should be placed in front of Parliament and in the Lichtenfelsgasse. Unfortunately, there is now no more representatives of the Economic Union, I believe that the virus is “fine” and they have been pressed. Where is the additional wage reduction? – In Germany it is 19 percent, with us 31 percent. Where is the additional wage reduction for entrepreneurs? – The Kest has been increased, the VAT has been increased and the depreciation has been extended to 40 years. Is this an image that can be used to refer to the backbone of SMEs? - Yes, the buildings. [[Abg. Schieder: The building depreciation!]] Have you ever been a guest in a 40-year-old bathroom? - They're unsuspecting. You've never been a businessman, you don't know what it's all about. [[Abg. Arbitrators: You are unsuspecting! You don't know anything!]] - No! I know better than you, because I still pay the wages of 115 employees. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] I want to finish before I explain this to you. I would also like to explain to Mr Vice-Chancellor – sometime under four eyes – a cover contribution account. In order for something meaningful to be done so that a discharge is also granted to economic operators, for whom entrepreneurs are under way, we shall put forward a motion for a resolution. This is about Chamber II. Please agree! Do something for the entrepreneurs – also the ÖVP, also the SPÖ! [[Quoted print version removed]] This would be useful once before we come to the business chamber and tourism topics in the afternoon. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e11581	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place, and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e11657	Next speaker: Mrs Lichtenecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e11678	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Chancellor! You have emphasized today in your speech the importance of having a competitive location and of forcing economic recovery. This is intended to force the tax reform and also the site package. One thing has to be clear: Both a fair distribution of income and distribution of income in tax matters as well as a modern and innovative environmental tax reform – as my colleague Christiane Brunner presented today – are very essential cornerstones of a good development of an economy and of competitiveness, and that is exactly what, Mr. Federal Chancellor, we are missing in these proposals. Yes, justice, fairness and good framework conditions also require companies to come to a point that has now been presented at your site package: crowdfunding. Of course, small and medium-sized enterprises and energy transition projects need support and good conditions for them to invest accordingly. That's something we've been pushing in this form for years now, and I almost think it's a little wonder that we're finally moving in here, but it's about the details. It will be about the details when it comes to what a prospectus obligation should actually look like, which is called light here. What does that mean in concrete terms? What are the costs of small and medium-sized enterprises so that they can take advantage of them at all? – It will also depend on how much can be invested in a company per investor. If the speech is that it will be €5,000, then we believe that this is too small, and if there is a system that looks like a net income of more than €2,500 can be invested twice, then of course the question to the gentlemen on the government bank arises: What's that supposed to look like? Should we take over the bureaucracy again? Is it now the great control of income? In addition, the question: Then why isn't that so at the same time at a casino? – There is really a concrete requirement for these regulations to be made as unbureaucratic and as open as possible so that this instrument “crowdfunding” for small and medium-sized enterprises and energy transition projects can actually be carried out in this form. As with many of you, I also have the calls from various companies regarding regulations. Yes, of course, the registration fee makes sense. The question is here again: How will this be designed? What do the specific regulations look like? – Here, I think, it is also necessary to listen to individual voices that make proposals on how to implement this in concrete terms. An example: A small pastry in the country, with apprentices and employees, but still has to look at how it can carry on the operation well. It has an ice window and makes a good business on sunny days. Here is the question: How is a register actually to be used there? Is that a practical solution? Does a second employee have to be hired to do this? - That's where it's going to be. Such matters as practical implementation must be taken into account. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] The third area is the large area of the research premium, in which you now think to increase it from 10 percent to 12 percent. We are all d’accord: Research is important, a focus must be placed on research. I can only double-emphasize this and add three call marks!!- Oh, my God! The question is: How do we do that? – The research premium was increased from 8 percent to 10 percent in 2011 and is now expected to be increased from 10 percent to 12 percent. I say once the resources are in excess and universities and basic research are well equipped, then you can remember that in this form. There is no evaluation of tax research funding, and yet a very huge effort should be put into this level. In this area, there is a need for a consistent evaluation and then a decision on how research resources are focused and concentrated in order to take the appropriate step in any case. An appeal to the government and to you from the government parties: There are many questions, many potential for improvement, and the appeal is aimed at your openness to actually enter into negotiations in the coming months so that something better, more successful and more future-oriented can be achieved here.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e11738	Next item is the report by Mr Kickl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e11760	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The previous debate makes it necessary to address one thing or another, which was “separated” especially at the beginning by the highest representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP – both by the government bank and in the form of club members – I would like to say almost. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am sometimes surprised how ÖVP and SPÖ are trying to highlight their own economic competence. This usually happens by trying to kill others down, and then does not fail to bring any quotations in the form of gross, net et cetera. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] I made the effort to check it out and pay it to you with the same coin. If you want to sum up the economic competence of the ÖVP, which is also expressed in this so-called tax reform, in small terms – and often it is the small things in which the great one becomes recognizable – then I say the following: 7 million € election cost limitation, 11 million € have been spent, i.e. the limit has been exceeded by 4 million €; and the whole thing under a party leader, who is at the same time Finance Minister. This is the economic competence of the ÖVP. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would not be so big inside here and pretend that everyone else would be less involved somewhere when it comes to discussing a tax reform. Mr Klubobmann Arbitrator – in the back he is – is again the hypo-“not-governmental” and he has once again believed that he must bring this gross net quote, but has forgotten that his one-man think tank in terms of financial policy – that is, the honourable Member Krainer – has given “fundamentales” in connection with this tax relief. Arbitrators must know, he was after all the chief negotiator of the SPÖ. MEP Krainer cheers in the OTS: ‘Mean and medium-sized income reduction is an important economic impulse.’ This is what the SPÖ has to say about this tax relief of small and medium-sized incomes. [[Cheerfulness and applause at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is the whole thing. I know that you do not like this approach, that you are always satisfied with taking part of it. But that's why you have to push it back. You have no joy with this approach that the truth is the whole thing. We see that, if you harshly criticize – rightly, from our point of view – that countries are irresponsibly highly liable for hypos. At the same time, however, you close your eyes when it comes to indebtedness at international level – keyword ESM, keyword ECB – neck over head. You don't have a problem with this, because you only see half and not the whole thing. The part of the SPÖ, which always strains Mr. Keynes, also has its own interpretation of economic theory. This is only a matter of highlighting the component of ever-new debt, but of forgetting debt eradication. So here, too, just a part and not the whole thing. It is similar in the area of tax reform. Ladies and gentlemen, of course it is true that there are redundancies in the area of collective reform, no, and by the way, there were the liberals who long, long called for when you were still standing out here and saying: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter]] This is not, in no case, irresponsible and, in reality, it means the ruin of the state! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Matznetter.]] After all, now you've also enjoyed the big one. There are these discharges. Do not pretend that these discharges would take place somewhere in the laboratory and there would be no other external circumstances – which you produce – and as if you did not come at the same time with a whole series of loads! That is the problem of the whole matter. Left put it in people, right pull it out to them again. This is the method of how your – under quotation marks – “tax reform” works. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] These would be the increases in VAT already mentioned. Then delete benefits in the area of housing procurement. Then introduce the inheritance tax over the back door by grabbing the bag of those who bought land and land and a home and who want to pass it on within the family. Now you can argue about the amounts, how much or how little that is. I wonder, What is the state’s performance if someone continues to inherit a house within his family? What is the power of the state that it holds its hands in such an approach? – This is theft and nothing else! The State does not do anything in this respect. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And that's how it goes. This is also the reason why you do not reduce the overall tax and tax rate. Now you still have to say that it is your country leaders who are really enjoying it – whenever there is no year of election – to have the fees sniffed up properly. That's what's added: These increased fees – for example in Vienna – must then be paid with what is supposed to be saved; then nothing remains. I would remind you that in several stages in 2010, you have reduced a total of €7 billion to €7 billion on the Austrians. With this “reform” you will achieve a maximum compensation, but I believe that if you calculate exactly, then not even a zero-sum game in the sense that you will compensate for the damage you have done in recent years. To do that with the counter-funding You are therefore unable to implement a proper structural reform. You can't. [[Abg. Mayer: That's what the hypo says...!]] They have created a pro-prinz-structure-friendly tax reform, but they have created an entrepreneurship-friendly tax reform. Conversely, it would have been right. But you're not able to do that. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The unemployment situation: You know that in Austria: No end of the valley ride in sight. I'll tell you something. The wage and income tax measures you are planning will not lead to a turnaround. It would be nice. Of course, there will be impulses for consumption, but you have to take this to heart and really note what the experts of the AMS have advised you. The question is, when it is consumed, where the value added for this consumption actually lies. – This is only partly in Austria, because much is consumed, which comes from somewhere else. This economic impulse will not be achieved, and the unemployment rate will not go back in the way you have promised. That's why you moved back to Krems and you got better. They have already improved a tax reform work which has not even entered into force. On the one hand, you take the economy to the kandare by criminalizing all standard, because €1.8 billion can only be driven if €1.8 billion is lost somewhere, and € 1.8 billion will only be withdrawn from the target group you have been looking for – for small and medium-sized enterprises – if all are left behind. That's about how your thinking looks. That's what it's all about. With this criminalization, we cannot befriend ourselves, ladies and gentlemen. I would not be surprised if Mr Tsipras would say that if Mr Tsipras came to the conclusion that it was so in Greece. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter]] But, please, this is not the Austrian reality, and it is also not an appropriate measure to spell out the registration fund from the hat now and to say: That's how we solve the problem. Do you know where the registration fee is? – There is an obligation to register in Italy and Greece. Good night! – So much about the effectiveness of the register. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wenninger.]] It cannot be found in the register. I think it is more of a mentality problem that we have to deal with at European level in this area. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Mayer.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have already said that I am very, very glad that you finally took up our idea of wage tax reduction. We've been preaching this for years. But what the Lord has allowed himself to do today from the union, Mr Katzian, is really the best. He makes himself here and says that we trade unionists are making tough wage negotiations year after year and get something out for the workers. – He could rightly say that if he did not sit here at the same time as the Member's hat of a government group and do everything he could to erase this profit from the workers. Unfortunately, this tax reform is no exception, and this principle is being applied again. This is a lie, carefully said, Mr Katzian. [[Abg. Christ: You don't know each other! So why are you talking such a nonsense? Bierzelmentality!]] Actually, you have to see the whole thing. That is the crucial point. That's why you've got 'cause They do not take this seriously and forget the second part in the area of wage tax reform. You forgot to turn off the cold progression. That's what you've forgotten because it's an automatic cash issue for you. This is practical; you don't have to do anything. As you take 600 million € a year, and in a few years, the whole effect you are applying for will be puffed. They have predicted to people that they will now have a wallet that they will no longer bring, because it is so full, but in a few years, all this will be dissolved in this area alone by the cold progression. What will remain are the increases we have spoken of before. Or do you make yourself up now and guarantee that you will take back these increases if the budget position allows? - I can't imagine that. That has never been the case in this Republic. That is to say, the Austrians can be sure that what is now promised to them as an additional revenue will resolve while the additional loads will remain in the long run. In short: This is the true face of this ‘tax reform’. And because you are probably not satisfied with this work yourself, you have put this clause into Krems. There are now promises of jobs, thousands of jobs. We do not know where to go with the jobs that have been promised. I am very much in favour of job creation in the construction industry, but one thing I also say to you, ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government: it should be Austrian jobs, especially in the construction industry. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] So far, your work miracle has been based on a different pattern, and the additional employment you have achieved in recent years has been an employment that has benefited all possible employees, but last but not least, it has benefited Austrian workers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] This is a way that we cannot support the liberals.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e11925	Mr Kickl, I would like to call for an order for the accusation of falsehood. Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e11957	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! It was once again encouraged and urged that the praise from the opposition, with all criticism, had been missed here. You can go in there a little bit. But I wanted to say something about the basic structure of this alleged reform and where it has to go in the future, namely to a detailed pragmatism and the really big breads to bake, or a vision for it. We will have to talk about the employment effects of tax reforms, as well as about the effects of justice and the associated structures or the non-change of the same and the ecologicalisation already mentioned. But first of all to praise: Yes, the 25 percent entrance tax rate has been reached. That's clear, of course. If you had taken a lower volume, then that would not have been possible, but yes, you have achieved that. That is not a matter of course. This can be diagnosed once. There have also been debates as to whether the volume would not be lower, then you would not have come to terms with your tariff line. Okay, yes, the 25 percent have reached you as an entrance tax rate. However, it then rises relatively fast and, of course, leaves up to the minister not only absolute, but interestingly also in the proportion more. There we would have had a different idea of justice, but be it. You've kept the date. That's notable, but that's just a political comment. In the meantime, one has had the impression that you are galloping into one's own tactics so that it won't go out, but you've done it. Whether you risked a new election, we don't know. What would have been better for the country is another question. But you did it. - Okay. Now I come to a major point of contention, namely the fight against fraud. I think that's ambitious, I think that's good, and if it succeeds or succeeds in bringing in just under €2 billion, then we'll find that great. But this is not done by itself. With the usual approaches to the fight against fraud, which were very difficult, we would not have come far. There really needs to be hammered and nailed, there must be nails made with heads. We are ready for these negotiations, because you need at least one opposition party. We'd really like that if that lasted. But 1,9 billion euros you have to bring in first. Great thing! In the long run, we will not escape the fight against international tax fraud. You recognized that. But there are large companies and corporations based in Austria. And as we know, there are still the particularly rich and false ones who juggle mass money around, which they can hide well from the tax in Austria. Yeah, that's gonna take a lot. Tag so-called banking secrecy. That was in this form, anyway, only a mistake of the irrational, because it tends to harm the little ones in the result and helps the great ones who hide their money. That was always a problem in this country. You get my recognition that you're finally doing this. We have been writing in every concept since 2006 that this has long been so done, but, as has been said, due to international pressure and due to money shortage we do it. - That's good. As far as the question of economic and employment effects is concerned, first of all it must be borne in mind that it would have been better to make this collective reform, if it had an effect, now, because now the delle is particularly large. Until all of this really takes place, we may not need it in the form at all, and then we are procyclically again in the worst case. It's not that smart. Second: If you had another, a fairer course, then you would of course have the claimed employment effects in much greater form. That makes sense: If more relief is needed below, then more would be spent according to this logic. The great question of justice is missing at all that one has not gone to the structure. Let's take a look at this! Now almost €5 billion is being redistributed. If all of this is right and good, including fight against fraud, then the question remains why you have not organized the double volume. This is when we involve ecological effects, but especially if we have 2 to 3 billion € in terms of a reasonable, fair inheritance tax with still high amounts of allowances and an equivalent for the foundations. That's where 2 to 3 billion euros come out. We would have that in addition. Then all the claimed wonderful effects would be double. We think that this is possible, useful and necessary. This would finally go into the structure, but it is now structurally considered a reflection and no reform with visions, and that would be the point. To this end, I remain with the example: If someone inherits €4 million, he will not pay any taxes on it, except if perhaps a property is in there, this kind of transfer charge. If someone earns €4 million gross in life, he pays more than half of it taxes and social taxes. But he's been working for it all his life! You have to earn €4 million first, which is already one in your middle class. If that is fair, if it is to be economically reasonable, I say: Good night! [[Abg. Street: Where do the 4 million € come from? They're taxed too!]] You should get rid of your clienttelism and work on your enforceability, but we will continue in this direction. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] At the end of the day, it remains the ecologicalization, where one could certainly move some billions, always in favour of reducing the burden of labour income. With the €5 billion we have now manoeuvrated only 1.7 percent of the economic performance. If you look at the international data, you see that we are still much too high, and that is why it would be reasonable to go in this direction. The vision concludes, and the circle concludes with the fight against tax fraud: In the future, there will be the possibility that we will tax labour income in general and capital income no matter where it comes from. That would be the most important concern at all. Now we still have the problem that capital income, income from share ownership, rent and rent, and so on, is always cheaper. The income of labour is always more expensive, including the income of self-employed people. This is not only fair, but also economically unreasonable. That is why we should not lose sight of this overall reform with this vision, but, if you are already so happy to be reformed, we should get right into the next stage. Then we get away from this filigranism and finally to larger breads to bake.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e12007	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ing. Dietrich, colleagues and colleagues on “Stop the criminalisation of economic operators and traders – savings in the public sector to counter-finance tax reform”. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – That is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr. Strolz, colleagues on the reduction of federal and regional party funding. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the request to have a sign of approval. – That is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Hable, ladies and gentlemen, on tax autonomy of countries and municipalities. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – That is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Loacker, ladies and gentlemen, on the reduction of chamber-to-chamber contributions. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – That is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Loacker, ladies and gentlemen, on wage reduction through structural reform of the tax system. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – That is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Rossmann, ladies and gentlemen, on the greening of the tax system and fair funding of the richest 10%. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – That is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Brunner, ladies and gentlemen, on no climate change tax increase for pellets. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – That is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Schellhorn, ladies and gentlemen, on the Economic Chamber 2.0. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – That is rejected. [[14:13:01]] 2. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (455 e.g._Other Organiser Protocol amending the Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the People's Republic of China on the promotion and mutual protection of investment (504 d.a.) 3rd. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (394 e.g._Other Organiser ==References====External links== Agreement signed in Minsk in May 2001 between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of the Republic of Belarus to avoid double taxation in the areas of income tax and wealth (505 d.a.) 4. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (442 e.g._Other Organiser Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on cooperation and mutual assistance in customs matters (506 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e12159	We now come to points 2 to 4 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Obernosterer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e12186	Mr President. Federal Minister for Finance! Ladies and gentlemen! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and at home in front of the TV screens! As the President-in-Office said, this is a presentation of the Financial Committee. Austria is an export country, every second euro in Austria is earned with exports, so it is important that we have corresponding agreements with all the countries we export to in order to create legal certainty and thus the best conditions for the domestic economy there. In concrete terms, it is about amending the Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the People's Republic of China on the promotion and mutual protection of investment. There has already been a contract in this regard since 11. ==References== It has been adapted to EU law and should be decided here today. But I believe that the main objective must be to establish a single agreement for the whole of the EU specifically with the People's Republic of China. This is already being worked on so that EU countries do not always have to deal with it in detail. China is an economically strong partner for export, it exports approximately €3.4 billion a year there. Although Austria's export rate has only increased 1.7 percent last year, we have had a plus of 7.8 percent when exporting to the People's Republic of China. At the same time, the double taxation agreement with Belarus is also on the agenda, which needs to be adapted to OECD standards. It's a formal matter. Belarus is also becoming more and more an economic export partner for Austria. Last year we achieved an increase of 24 percent with a starting position of approximately € 245 million. The decision-making process is also subject to increased cooperation with customs guards in order to control smuggling more effectively. In particular, it is also about drug trafficking. I ask the High House – the economy, the jobs in Austria – to take note of these requests unanimously. – Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e12224	Mr Ehmann. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e12245	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would like briefly to deal with item 3 of the agenda, namely the government template, which amends the agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Belarus, which says Belarus, a little more intensively. At the plenary session, it should be noted that a double taxation agreement is not exactly the most exciting in the plenary debate, but I believe that this is, in principle, very useful, because it prevents natural or legal persons who obtain income in both countries from being double taxed. This is also a contribution to fiscal justice. In addition, there is an agreement in the field of official assistance, which will also be affected by the amendment. It regulates the exchange of information between the Contracting States concerned in order to dry out tax havens, the tax evasion of tax evasion in respect of tax fraud. This is another contribution to the fight against tax fraud. [[Abg. Kogler: Super thing!]] In the present government template, the existing agreement, which was signed on 16 June, is to be concluded. It was signed in Minsk in May 2001, as my previous speaker mentioned, that it was brought to OECD standards in the area of transparency and the assistance I had previously referred to. The current OECD standard also provides, among other things, that the exchange of bank information between the Contracting States is possible. It should now be foreseen that the provision of information by a Contracting State may no longer be refused if it is information from a bank or another credit institution. Furthermore, I believe that non-implementation of the agreement would also have serious disadvantages for the Austrian economy and would lead to any defensive measures by international financial institutions or other countries. Of course, an evaluation was also envisaged. However, an evaluation only makes sense after the State Treaty, which will enter into force at the earliest of 2015. There will be the evaluation in 2019, because then the number of cases and the operation of the official assistance with Belarus, says Belarus, will be meaningfully verifiable. As mentioned in the introduction: This may not be the most exciting debate, but it is a useful, important contribution to simplifying the exchange of information between the Contracting States and in the field of tax fraud. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e12282	Next speaker: Mr MMag. DDr. Fuchs. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e12303	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! High house! Values Advisors! Double taxation agreements which do not comply with the OECD standard on transparency and assistance, such as those with the Republic of Belarus, must be revised. We welcome such revisions because they provide an important basis for combating cross-border tax fraud. According to the Federal Government, 40 percent of tax reform and € 1.9 billion are to be financed by the fight against fraud. It is questionable why the Federal Government has so far seen to it that 1,9 billion euros have been lost annually. If Mr Vice-Chancellor believes that the legal and technical conditions for the fight against fraud have so far been missing, the question is already being raised. after the why. The Federal Government would have had the power to create the appropriate framework conditions. Commenting on the fight against fraud, Mr. Vice-Chancellor stressed in the press on 15 February. March 2015 – I quote –: “It is not about the very small ones who have an account in Switzerland, but about very big cases.” What did Mr Vice-Chancellor mean by this statement? What is the “little one” in Switzerland? For what reason should the Swiss accounts of the so-called little ones be protected? We know that the Austrians have exposed only half of their Swiss accounts under the tax agreement with Switzerland. Right before the entry into force of the tax agreement. In January 2013, €10 billion was transferred from Switzerland. Austria is by far the capital country number one, Israel and Singapore follow far away. Why has the tax agreement with Switzerland been negotiated in such a way that the Swiss tax administration does not have to notify us of the names of these tax evaders from Austria? What is the government doing against these three-thirds of all tax evasions, who have even pruned on the amnesty offered? - Nothing! She's inactive. And Mr. Vice-Chancellor is impoverishing this matter because he wants to save the “little ones” with Swiss accounts. A fight against these tax evasions would be a fight against fraud for me, which deserves this name too. For the Federal Government, however, fraud control is the introduction of the registration bank obligation. I would also like to point out today that in the BMF, 2 billion € are currently disputed on the basis of settlement price corrections with other countries. The BMF must fight for these 2 billion € basis of assessment so that it does not result in massive tax losses. But this is only done with an armada of top-qualified financial officials and not with the financial police. However, these experts cannot be trained from today to tomorrow. There is a need for years of training so that we are not put on the table by other states in the intergovernmental tax competition. That's where the BMF was for years. The BMF simply did not take care of long-term personnel development in the highly qualified personnel sector. The acquisition of hundreds of officials from other departments is not at all targeted in the field of intergovernmental tax competition. I am also surprised by the statement in the Council of Ministers' presentation that the conversion of the VAT system to reverse charge to combat VAT fraud due to preparatory work at EU level should only take place in the medium term. Why should the fight against fraud in the case of sales tax not take place until the medium term? We liberals are calling for an immediate change from the VAT system to the reverse charge at national level. We should not be held back by EU rules when it comes to the fight against VAT fraud. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Minister for Finance, Focus When it comes to combating fraud, you are dealing with cross-border transactions between multinational companies! In this area, you can significantly secure Austrian tax revenue, but not only the introduction of the registration fee requirement!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e12382	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e12406	Mr President. Federal Minister! We use this issue, namely the amendment of the Investment Protection Agreement with China and the amendment of the double taxation agreement with Belarus, to deal with the issue of investment protection provisions also in other agreements such as CETA and possibly TTIP agreements. In the matter itself, of course, there is no question about what is being presented here. But I am already concerned about our concern, because it is now being negotiated at the Brussels level - Mr Schultes knows this - on an ongoing basis. I'll start with TTIP. I think you have to give a loyal mention – advocacy praise! – that, for the second time, the Federal Chancellor has already come up with this report, namely at the summit, only last week. There is a note in the Minutes, which the majority will be pleased with here, in which essentially a few critical key elements of the decision taken here in the National Council are deposited by a majority. Of course, I think it is right, important and more important than we sometimes believe ourselves, what we have triggered by the decision. No matter what, of course, everyone can or should have his or her basic attitude towards the trade agreement. I know that parts in the ÖVP, not all, see in this question from classical-economic analysis and view the benefits at weitem outweigh. Only now do we have a problem, namely a double game by the government: Although the chancellor is now trying to speak clear words about this, the negotiations on TTIP, controlled by the Ministry of Economic Affairs, are led by officials. And according to the Commission's reports, because it is precisely negotiating that, this line is far too little recognizable there. It is always said that there is a national Council decision in Austria, but at the same time it does not stop when the Commission comes to the Member States and expressly says: Now give us a stronger mandate even for the controversial investment protection! Because otherwise we cannot continue to negotiate with weight – from the Commission’s point of view. If we were to take back investment protection more strongly – because individual Member States, in particular Austria, are reporting such strong reservations – then we would be more difficult to negotiate – a classic story because it is supposed or actually the US that weighs it very high. But at some point this can be us when it comes to us. And this rejection here in the House is about the current investment protection regulations, because that is exactly what it is all about. All in all, they agree that standards should not get worse. And all this – I repeat –, the turning and fishing point, that has crystallized itself, is always respectful of this investment protection, as we would like to express it, these privileged corporate rights – because that is the result. But if that is the case, then you will have to turn it around once – and that is exactly not what Austria is doing! – that’s to turn around, that’s to say: If the Commission already asks us, we will be given the opportunity to renegotiate these investment protection clauses after the negotiations have been suspended for tactical reasons, then it is not Austria that says: No, there is a decision of the People's Office, of you here, which is extremely critical. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. That's not going to be deposited. It is simply being further negotiated in this direction. Now I ask you: What is your decision worth in here? And I can't do that. With all due regard for the fact that the chancellor is finally saying what to say, with all due regard for the fact that a protocol note has been filed there, there goes, where really is being negotiated, further, in the wrong direction. Once this will be the government – not you primarily – that is clear to me – the head of government, because it is at least Chancellors and Vice-Cancellors, first of all must clarify. The government will have to speak and answer the House; and as long as we have not made any other decision, it will have to do what our mission is. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Holzinger.]] Tomorrow we will still have a lot of opportunity to talk about how this looks in detail. For example, the CETA Agreement sees how it works. First of all, all those who have had reservations have been told: Wait for what comes out at the end, because you don't even know what you're talking about! At the end of the old Commission’s term of office, it was quickly “negotiated” in a relatively curious way – under quotation marks – and signed. We read it anyway, the document. ISDS is inside, admittedly improved, but still with the wrong principles. So, what's happened? What is the parole to all those who say: Now let's get this on the right track!? - Now you have to be quiet, now it's done. Now you want to come. But that's exactly what those who said before say: Be calm and wait for what comes out! If this is the pattern, as TTIP is being negotiated, then good night! However, the government will have to look differently, otherwise it will at least have to deal with parts of this National Council. Because that's not tolerant. This is exactly the knitting pattern from which – and then across Europe – political irrationalism arises. That's exactly where the mood arises again: The one in Brussels – an insanity, what do I know! Unfortunately, it is also Austria that is the Member States that are too cowardly and play a funny double game. More about it tomorrow. Go inside! Otherwise, we do not need to decide anything more when we say there is a decision in this direction, the government is negotiating de facto in this direction, and the chancellor is doing something else in the middle, mainly in the “Kronen Zeitung”.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e12498	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Hanger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e12519	Mr President. Dear Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Dear visitors to the galleries! I would like to take the report of the Financial Committee on agreements with the People's Republic of China and Belarus on the occasion of asking the question in the room: Does bilateral agreements between economies create prosperity? This question is actually to be answered with a very clear yes – that was already mentioned by my previous speakers – when you look at our external trade statistics. But I also want to find this a bit theoretical. There is a famous national economist from the 19th century. ==References====External links== He's in a theoreti- In this case, the model has already been demonstrated: If two countries trade with each other, the overall prosperity will increase. He has also shown that it works even if the two states or economies make it with different conditions in terms of labour costs and productivity. What I want to say with it: I would like to make a clear plea for trade between economies because trade contributes to the creation of prosperity. If you look at the Austrian situation, you also come to the realization that we are really very, very well positioned there. When I sit here in the hall, I sometimes have the impression that it's all so insanely bad with us in Austria; there's a lot of things very, very good. Let us look at the external trade balance! We have a very low deficit in export/import comparison! Only: If you add the service to it, if you evaluate the current account, you realize that we generate significant surpluses. We are competitive in the international context and generate surpluses. I now also very much welcome this initiative by the Federal Government, which, of course, with its measures economic package, research rate, innovation promotion, for example crowdfunding as a partial aspect, contributes to further strengthening this competitiveness internationally so that this standard can also be maintained in the future. In this context, I would also like to refer briefly to my previous speaker, Mr Kogler. It is also important to stress that these are difficult issues to deal with in the context of TTIP: It is about investment protection, it is about standards that we naturally want to adhere to in Austria, namely in the areas of environment, social affairs and also in many other areas. But it must also be recognised that this issue should bring an advantage to our economy, create more prosperity, create more jobs. And this top goal should not be lost in the eyes of those discussions about TTIP. Finally, I would like to address another issue on the Federal Government's economic package, namely crowdfunding. I am very pleased personally that a negotiated solution has now been achieved at government level. I would like to express my express thanks to the Vice-President and, above all, to the competent State Secretary, who is very concerned and, of course, to our Minister for Finance. I'm from regional development. In regional development, we discuss many, many topics and ideas that we have out there. Often, the implementation of these ideas fails on the necessary capital. Since crowdfunding – even if it cannot be the sole solution, no question – can be a very important contribution to regional development if the region admits to raising its capital via crowd investment. We often have these ideas in the regions. I really see this as a good package to drive forward investment in the regions as well. So in total: Bilateral state agreements and agreements are important for the economy, increasing prosperity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e12587	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Unterrainer. In the meantime, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to say: We're very close to what's going on. So please don't go out, but everyone stay here. Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e12616	All “right goes forth from the people. ” Thus it is in the first article of the Austrian Federal Constitutional Act. In Belarus, all power is based on an authoritarian regime. [[Abg. Kogler: I already noticed!]] There are many who like to say: It is not possible to make contracts with such a state. But I say: That's exactly why! An efficient and joint cooperation creates confidence that can be built on. This Agreement is an agreement between two European States. Even if one calls Belarus the last dictatorship in Europe, we should therefore work closer together. Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen – who are still here! –, value watchers on the ranks and in front of the screen devices! Who of us remembers the number of sanctions against Russia? Let us not forget one aspect: Russia is part of Europe and Belarus is Europe. In all discussions: We have a common story with us, we have a common future. I firmly believe that for all the mistakes made in total, one must never be missing, namely common respect and a negotiating basis at an eye. Since its entry into modern times, Russia has played a significant role in European history. This applies to the Napoleonic wars, to the October Revolution, to the two World Wars and to the Iron Curtain, which separated Europe into two spheres of influence not far from Vienna. It is not true to say anything small, neither the attacks of Lukashenko in Belarus on the order and press and germ cells of democracy, nor those of Russia such as the annexion of the Crimean peninsula. Since the fall of the Wall, internationally renowned experts have warned of the further encroachment of the U.S.S.S.R. successor states. Russia feels threatened in its areas of interest, and conflicts are growing out of fear. It is on both sides to eliminate these fears and disputes and to deal with each other. That's why a strong relationship is important. Because only such a strong relationship can withstand mutual criticism. This Agreement between Austria and the Republic of Belarus relates to the simplification of customs and trade. The Republic of Belarus currently does not have an aid agreement in customs matters in order to ensure the proper application of the customs rules. Official assistance for the persecution of persons has been excluded. Similarly, transactions affecting sovereignty, security, public order, business and/or business secrets are excluded. It's a beginning, it's a common encounter. When President Heinz Fischer received President Putin in Austria, he welcomed him in a small country with great history. Austria has a historically growing role as a place of encounter, as a meeting point for Europe. We would do well to continue taking steps. Not for nothing was Vienna the scene of the summit between Kennedy and Khrushchev 1961 and between Carter and Breschnew 1979. We should continue to seek this understanding and to work together in the future. We need a solution to the common problems and issues, it is also about Europe. That is why Yes to an agreement between Austria and Belarus on cooperation and mutual assistance in customs matters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e12653	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Haider. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e12674	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Yes, Mr Hanger is right: Such agreements promote prosperity in both Contracting States. Mr Unterrainer is also right: It is also important to conclude such agreements with countries such as Belarus, also in order to influence the situation there. However, let me address the double taxation agreement in particular, no matter which state, but in principle. Although we agree, we see some critical points in this context. I can remind you of the tax haven hunt which at the time opened up by the German Finance Minister Steinbrück, in which he has also placed Austria on the grey list of tax havens. In the course of this tax haven hunt, the OECD is the species. Paragraph 25 5 which de facto eliminates the Austrian banking secret. We still see this critically, and I note that too. Nevertheless, we will agree because, without this pass, there are no new agreements and because, as a question response has been given to Fekter under the then Minister of Finance, there is no question of asking for information, so we are going to create a dead right anyway. But that's just by the way. But not only in terms of content, but also in terms of the formal – let us say so – we are criticizing this article 25 para. 5. I have already said it here a number of times, and I have already said it to your two predecessors, Mr Minister, that I have talked about it again in committee. It is still in it: It is not only because they “are with a bank... or because they refer to shares of property in a person ” that ‘the provision of information’ cannot be rejected. “Opportunity shares in a person” cannot be held in Austria since 1781 at the latest, since the patent for the abolition of the property of Josef II. Not anymore. We know that legal persons are meant, but then please also change it so that we do not have to decide on any slavery papers.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e12717	Mr Jarolim is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e12739	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I think I can stay very short – it has already been said a lot. It is undisputed that the maintenance or safeguarding of both national and international tax laws is extremely important. It is therefore appropriate to do all that is necessary for their implementation. As far as TTIP is concerned, which is basically not the subject of this discussion – the issue of investment protection agreements, but the free trade agreements are, of course, a matter for the Commission. essential point, and any kind of trade promotion is extremely important – it should already be noted that the Commission is negotiating partly in an unimaginable arrogance for me. It would be necessary to clarify once and for all, which will necessarily only work if the European Parliament is present. At TTIP I ask myself one thing: The debate will be held on the admission or implementation of an international arbitration procedure. As far as Europe is concerned, there are very different countries. I think that the desire for the possibility of arbitration, for example in Bulgaria or Romania, is quite understandable, certainly not necessarily in Austria. Therefore, the question arises whether TTIP cannot be structured in such a way that it is agreed in principle to invoke the respective state jurisdiction, and in a kind of opting-in or opting-out – however you want to call it – for the individual national states in Europe to be able to confess to arbitration. I do not think that, for example, the US would have a problem with Austria within this Convention or a problem to befriended by the idea of calling the state courts in that country. But I can imagine, as I have said, – also in the case of Austria – that one would have some problem in Bulgaria or Romania. This will certainly improve at some point, but is certainly not optimal at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e12781	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does one of the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 2: Proposal from the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Protocol amending the Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the People's Republic of China on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, in 455 of the supplements referred to in Article 50(1). 1 Z 1 B-VG. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 3: Proposal from the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty: ==References====External links== In May 2001 in Minsk, the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on the prevention of double taxation in the areas of income and wealth taxes, signed in 394 of the supplements in accordance with Article 50(l) of the Treaty. 1 Z 1 B-VG. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 4: Proposal from the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on cooperation and mutual assistance in customs matters and the Annex, in 442 of the supplements referred to in Article 50(1). 1 Z 1 B-VG. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[14:45:15]] 5. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the proposal for a law of the Federal Council (452 D.B._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Insurance Supervision Act 2016 (503 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e12856	We're now on the 5th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Magistrate has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Rossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e12884	Mr President. High house! We have already discussed the Insurance Supervision Act in December of the previous year, and it was also decided at that time. However, we have not voted in favour of some of the reasons for which I will come to speak briefly. What was it all about? – On the one hand, it was about improving consumer protection for insurance customers in certain life, health and accident insurances, in particular the presentation of effective interest rates and some other things more, but above all it was also about building up an own resources system in the field of insurance, keyword Solvency II. And what happens to this government proposal? – In this government template, only one small thing is actually corrected, which one has forgotten at the time, namely the integration of the money laundering agency. We are not, in principle, opposed to the integration of the money laundering office, but since we had a number of objections to this law in December, we will also vote against it today. Some of the arguments we had at the time were the proportionality of the processing of biometric data from customers – which we questioned – on the other hand, we were afraid that the FMA would have increased administrative burden as part of the implementation of this law, which would result in additional burdens on the budget. Finally, we have feared that there could be some ambiguity in consumer protection, because communication between the resorts has worked badly. At the time, it was left unclear from our point of view, so that we had reservations, also due to the complexity of this law. That is why we are also voting against this bill today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e12928	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Zakostelsky. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e12950	Mr President. Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, in particular, ladies and gentlemen! As Mr Rossmann has already pointed out, the law that we are in place today is one that we had before us for decision-making in December. A few things have been noticed by the Federal Council, which have led to a rather rare action, namely to a legislative proposal from the Federal Council, which can be welcomed. In the case of the Insurance Supervision Act, the implementation of a new supervisory system will be carried out, in accordance with the EU Directive of 2009, the so-called Solvency II Directive, on the one hand, and on the other hand, the implementation of a new supervisory system. the orientation of own resources requirements. Finally, there is a development which, as I believe, is very welcome in the measures available for supervision, and there should therefore be no reason to vote against this law. The Insurance Supervision Act, in short, VAG 2016, has been the biggest reform of the Insurance Supervision Act since 1978 – and by the way, 40 reforms have been introduced. The new regulation is much more modern, legible, but also more extensive, and I would therefore like to refer to the statements made by my previous speaker. I have already carried out in December-Plenum that such a law must not bring with it any superfluous regulatory regulations. There is also a need for sufficient room for the institutions to be able to fulfil their role as a key element in the cycle of the economy. An overwhelming bureaucracy, especially a gold-plating, to which we sometimes tend in Austria, would significantly weaken the competitiveness of businesses in Austria. In this context, we also need to pay attention to the principle of proportionality, i.e., that smaller institutions should not be allowed to share the same rage with regulations – rules which are intended for and for themselves the very large international undertakings. This law, ladies and gentlemen, the implementation of Solvency II in Austrian law is also referred to by the Insurance Association as feasible. We must not forget, however, that this is about implementing a framework created by the EU Directive. In In this respect, there is a considerable prospect of further arrangements, the so-called Level-2, Level-3 and Level-4 regulations – massive implementation provisions, which also extend control possibilities. That is why, as mentioned earlier, it is about avoiding overregulations and continuing to allow economic action, because this is ultimately also in the interest of our citizens. I am convinced that our Minister of Finance – at least also ÖVP as a whole – will ensure that this Gold Plating is not exaggerated in order to allow the economic operators here in Austria enough scope for economic activity. Ladies and gentlemen, finally, a word on tax reform: I have already noticed that many more or less nervous reactions of the opposition here are evidence that the Federal Government has succeeded in doing this. Especially in the context of the economic package decided in the government clause in recent days, it is also expected that the economy will be boosted accordingly. In particular, I would like to thank the Minister for Finance and, of course, the Federal Government as a whole.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e13004	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Kuzdas. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e13025	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! My previous speakers have already explained what this law is all about. The revision of this Insurance Supervision Act is also a feature and notable one in two respects: on the one hand, because it is a legislative proposal from the Federal Council and that does not happen all the days, and on the other hand, because it is a novel of the law that we decided in December, but only with 1. January 2016 would enter into force. What's this about? – It is about money laundering and the ban on evidence. By 2013, a recovery ban was included in the Insurance Supervision Act. This provision has been tilted by the 2014 Insurance Supervision Act so that information from the money laundering procedure can also be used in the financial criminal proceedings. However, due to an editorial accident, it has come back into the last novel, and that was not in the sense of the legislator. With the current request of the Federal Council, the ban on exploitation should be re-run, i.e. information obtained in the money laundering procedure may also be used again in criminal proceedings. This is important because it facilitates the work of law enforcement authorities and thus sets out an important measure against fraudulent activities. I would also like to say a few things about tax reform because I have gained the impression that the Stronach team postulates tax evasion as a modern and successful business field. [[Abg. Hagen: other event!]] I think we should and should not understand that. Tax fraud must not be a successful business model, nor should it be a privilege for workers. However, I would also like to turn to the economic spirit driver named HC Strache, who believes that the cold progression will re-eat the tax reduction in two years. It would have to be figured out how this works once. [[Abg. Podgorschek: That's not just the sting!]] The opposition makes 5 billion € discharge a load package. You can only say that's Trampoline Mathematics. [[Abg. Stefan: 11 billion!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] – It shows how right I am if you are so upset. On the example of VAT, I would like to demonstrate the supposed burden. Like many other countries, we have not increased the normal rate of VAT, but in a few areas have corrected the reduced rate of tax. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] – Mr President, speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and Let's take a look at the load. What exactly does it look like? - Imagine a family with two children and a dog. [[Abg. Podgorschek: Does the dog already pay taxes?]] Let's assume the man deserves 3 000 € gross, the woman 1 100 € in part time. As regards the burden on VAT: The four-member family goes to the bath ten times a year, which results in 40 times a price of 0.15 €, which is equal to 6 € additional costs. When drinking wine, it looks as follows: When the family consumes 50 litres a year, the extra cost of 4 €. The additional costs of the flower purchase – the average Austrian buys annual cut flowers worth 70 € – amount to 1,92 €. [[Abg. Riemer: Please, where are you at home? Just so little?]] Among the holiday costs: If the cost of the accommodation is 700 €, the additional cost will be 20 €. Additional costs for the pet amount to € 4.8 per year. [[New calls from the Abg. Riemer.]] Overall – Mr Riemer, speak to you once! – additional cost of 37 € is a relief for the family of 1 608 €. [[Abg. Riemer: That's incredible!]] [[Further ongoing calls to the FPÖ.]] – You're already red in the face! So there can be no mention of a tax package, rather of a necessary relief for more purchasing power, for more employment and for more growth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e13156	Ladies and gentlemen, the sound level in the hall is quite high, despite poor presence! The next item is the report by Mr Ing. Schools. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e13181	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! We are just discussing a very interesting point, but you have to work out the interesting thing about it. On the one hand, we are currently discussing a very important point when it comes to exposing crimes. Black money or money suspected of money laundering is reported to the reporting point. However, there is a law which states that this report cannot be considered as evidence and therefore cannot be taken into account. 16 News has been received in 2013, 15 reports have been included under the prohibition of the use of evidence in this Act. It is logical that this has been changed – this has been changed in the Insurance Supervision Act. Unfortunately, this change has been lost again in a further legislative reform. It's strange that something like that happens. A “editorial mistake” is the beautiful expression that people can make mistakes. We have experienced this before, in the tractor driver's license. At that time it took more than a year to repair it. This time, thanks be to God for being attentive in the Federal Council. This is the second interesting point: The Federal Council has given a life mark of itself, and we are grateful for it. Time and again, citizens in parliamentary leadership ask me what we need the Federal Council to do, and I always declare that the Federal Council is the body where the federal representatives come together and look to ensure that we do not negatively affect the interests of the federal states in the National Council. This is not enough for some, and then there are violent debates. That is why the proposal has been made once because it would be good if the Federal Councils could consider how to bring to a simpler, common form some of the legal requirements which are very different in the federal states. I think it would be an interesting exercise for the Federal Council if the Federal Councils could make proposals on how to harmonise the different national laws on essential issues. In this case, we as the National Council would not approach the countries, but the countries themselves would make proposals for administrative simplification. There have been many proposals in the task reform and deregulation committee, and I would be pleased if our Federal Councils would bring in resolutions on this matter, so that in Austria this willingness to reform, which the Federal Government has now clearly shown, can really be implemented. Ladies and gentlemen, with the correction of this special insurance supervision law, we have fixed a little. It would be much more to repair if reforms were finally started in our country. Behind me are the two who will also take care of it: Our Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner and our Federal Minister Schelling are precisely the guarantees that something goes on.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e13227	I am now interrupting the negotiations on item 5 of the agenda. [[Call the SPÖ: The vote is still going on!]] – No, I'm sorry... – Well, I assume the clock doesn't show quite correctly. [[Call the SPÖ:Please vote!]] I tell you that no one has spoken about this and that the debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 452 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I am now interrupting the negotiations on item 5 of the agenda. [[15:01:33]] Short debate on the response to the question 3221/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e13281	We shall proceed to the implementation of the brief debate on the reply to the question 3221/AB. As the above-mentioned answer has already been distributed, a reading by the writer is not necessary. We are going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with the first speaker having a speaking time of 10 minutes for reasons. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. President. — The debate is closed. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e13313	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor and Minister Mitterlehner! Ladies and gentlemen! This short debate is about Chamber financing, and due to the current state of the tax reform discussion – or tax adjustment discussion – it is quite legitimate and worthless to report on it. [[President Bures takes over the presidency again.]] We have received the detailed figures from Mr Mitterlehner, and – Mr Schultes has also said this – it is an interesting point that we should look at more closely. So, Peter Haubner – perhaps he is still coming – and the other 15 members of the Economic Federation in the ÖVP Group, let's look at the financial slaring country of Mr Christoph Leitl, the financial slaraffenland also as a precursor organisation of the ÖVP! We therefore have detailed information on how revenue has developed from 2004 to 2014. At the same time, we see revenue, which is particularly interesting in times like this one and compared with how economic growth has developed over the last ten years. While economic growth, as we all know, has stagnated pretty much, the revenue of the Chamber of Commerce has grown from €498 million to €655 million. In the case of chamber cover 1, particularly Lower Austria, an increase of €16 million to €22 million over the last ten years. In the case of chamber housing 2, the key point is: If you want to relieve businessmen of this depression in which the entrepreneurs are in, and even after this tax adjustment package, at least immediately you should abolish this Chamber 2 - that is at least € 320 million that would benefit those entrepreneurs again. Also in times when we are discussing: All of us, we entrepreneurs can only deliver more results if we act as sparingly as possible – and that is to say, we act sparingly in the employee sector. We entrepreneurs – I too – have to tell each employee individually whether we can afford it – because we have to make our businesses profitable – to continue or hire these workers. And what does the Chamber of Commerce do, for example, in a federal country that has been particularly prominent, namely Tyrol? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gisela Worm.]] – It has raised its administrative budget from €1.1 million in the last ten years to €2.05 million, i.e. almost €2.1 million. This is actually an employee development of plus 40 percent. [[New call of the abg. Gisela Worm.]] This has to be broken down on the tongue, as this slaring country of Mr. Christoph Leitl, who has recently emerged, especially in the ÖVP Club, as a wake-up roof, in the face of a tax package for entrepreneurs. This wack roof does nothing but carry out frontal opposition before the Economic Chamber election and demand that entrepreneurs be relieved, but its entire budget in the Chamber of Commerce is a burden budget, and I find that to be very sad. So the number of employees of the Tirol Chamber of Commerce has increased from 219 to 290. I am clear, Mr Minister, that the reserves must be as high as an annual budget – €680 million in reserves – but must the Chamber of Commerce without external trade posts have 3 700 employees? Does this staff stand have to develop in such a way while we entrepreneurs cannot choose it? We all would like to have a lot more employees, but we have to operate. We must be entrepreneurs and not neglecters, that is the basic principle, and if we are in this inconsistency with this reform and with this chuzpe, which the President of the Chamber is still...
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e13373	Mr President, I would ask you, in your opinion, to be a little too moderate and to respect the dignity and reputation of the House. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Please continue.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e13397	Madam President, I will get together. [[Rejoicing with Members of the NEOS.]] [[Abg. No foreign words!]] [[Abg. Wenninger: Just act!]] - Yes, I have a lot of behavior: a good parents' home. I have to say the following: In this respect, it is also quite interesting – and I must praise the answer to our question regarding the Chamber of Workers, because it is even more transparent than that of the Chamber of Commerce – which has not been dealt with in the whole discussion and has not been carried out in the reply, namely the budget and the course of action of the WIFI and also the subsidiary of the Chamber of Commerce, which is also a competition with the private companies – to the forced members! - appear. I only remember catering companies, I only remember hotels, but I also remember consultancy agencies et cetera. – For example, this is about advisory services that could be made equivalent to forced members who cannot choose, but where the Chamber of Commerce acts as a direct competitor. That's, I mean, this hypocrisy we're always angry with. I think that we can simply discuss the following questions quite clearly: Where's the trip going? Should we not have a free representation of interests in which we can choose whether we want to be a member there? [[Congratulation of the Abg. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] Shouldn't we even be able to talk about where the trip should go, including the members? – I am not saying that the Chamber of Commerce has been abolished, it belongs only to the competition. If I remember: With these 3,700 employees, not even the foreign trade agencies are there! What does Switzerland do? – Switzerland has a Swiss house, and there are the embassies, the Swiss advertising and the foreign trade agencies inside. We have three different houses, and the chamber representative Koren is still famous that Austria has the second most foreign trade stations – behind the USA. Unfortunately, we are not as big as the US, and unfortunately we cannot join this competition either. I say that the export industry is important, but it is quite clear to ask whether we can continue to do so in the long run, whether we can draw more and more out of our members with the chamber envelope 2 and want to continue this. And then I can say and also inform the Economic and Social Union about it – perhaps it has not been in the process of averting the reforms of the tax package –: What has been done here – it is, except for Mrs. Jank, just no business partner present – is already sad. It's sad that you don't even have the courage to stand here in the discussion. And it is sad that, as an entrepreneurship representative, you do not have the courage – yes, Mr. Haubner does not have the courage – to make himself here and say: Yes, we have made massive mistakes, yes, we have been pulled over the table, yes, we carry the economic policy of the ÖVP to grave! For example, in the case of the land tax, you have been allowed to pull over the table from the Landerbund and have not done anything. Because you are continuing a “additional-in-the-hoses policy”, what your citizens are...
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e13463	Mr Schellhorn, your intention to be moderate, unfortunately did not last very long. [[Call at the ÖVP: This is his character!]] I therefore give you – I do not want to repeat it, I suppose you know what expression – a call for order. You're still talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e13500	I would like to take that word back. However, I call you unchallenged because you are going to kneel in front of the mayors and also at the municipal tax, where you could have done something at the basic tax. You could have done a lot of things there! But what are you doing? – They burden the entrepreneurs! And for these reasons, before I finish, I would like to quote two quotations. Mr Leitl, President-in-Office of the Council. January 2015 in the newspaper “Today” said – I quote –: “A tax reform must be part of the discharge offensive. This is a real relief – both for workers and for businesses alike – and not for taxes elsewhere.” And I can quote Peter Haubner, whom I may well call a friend. [[Ah-Rufe at the FPÖ]] “What we need is a proper tax reform that enables honest discharge – and above all also a strengthening of the entrepreneurship medium-sized.” These are quotations that we have to let go on the tongue again, because you have all voted in the tax reform discussion and the change in the party board, and I think that is what I am threatening. I would also like to say that to the entrepreneurs. I would advise you not to refuse the discussion now, otherwise you will have the Nimbus as a standstill guard and a refusal to reform. So discuss with us the economic chamber contributions and transparency in the Chamber of Commerce! - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e13557	Mr. Dr. Mitterlehner came next to speak. Mr Vice-Chancellor, your speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e13578	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Schellhorn, I don't know: Has the entire word record been withdrawn or just the wording? – Only the wording, then I have to say: [[Abg. Schellhorn: Only the formulation!]] [[Abg. New builder: I would take back the “lover”!]] When I see the overall context, I understand the concern that a possibility should be found to discuss the tax reform and other issues again. The main content has also been related to it. In terms of content, I do not share your opinion. This tax reform mainly relieves companies. We have discussed intensively this morning about the fact that those self-employed who also invest income tax will be taxed at over €500 million in the tariff. In addition, the area of reimbursement of social security contributions will be added, so it will be even more so. As a result, we will probably continue to discuss everything else if we are not only going to have to do with the framework laws and the implementations. The answer to what was asked here – it is a question of answering questions – is very brief, because we have answered everything in full, except for three questions, and other questions in themselves would not have been covered by the law of interconnection; but we have had information and therefore also answered these questions. We have not been able to answer three questions from 20 to 13, namely questions 11 to 13. These were the questions about the individual pension levels of the employees employed by ASVG and others who have pension contracts there. This has not been and is not covered by the law of interpolation, and we have also reason why we cannot answer it; it does not include our supervisory right. By the way, the question of the WIFI has not been asked at all, so we have not been able to answer it either. If it had been put, you have to say: We don't have any data because it's a distributed facility. But anyway, everything else has been correctly represented. The individual items relating to the basic condition as regards chamber size 2 and individual lifting rates: More specifically asked, specifically answered, correctly presented! Therefore, my very short presentation is: The content of the Economic Chamber's policy in terms of economic chamber contributions and lifting rates is to be clarified in internal matters and in terms of content in the Chamber of Commerce. Everything else as far as the law of supervision and the law of interconnection is concerned, we have – and this has not been criticised at all at all – answered in a comprehensive way, and I am unfortunately no longer able to contribute to today's discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e13628	I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time for Members who have spoken is 5 minutes. I call Mr Matznetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e13653	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen in plenary! Dear listeners! The debate on the Chamber of Commerce is always worth it, and – Mr Schellhorn, I concede – it is also a permanent task to ensure that efficient work is carried out there. Only a few things should be made clear – if we already have the discussion on the basis of the answer to the question: There are no forced members. What we have in Austria is a system in which there are self-government bodies that represent the interests and have something very essential: a democratic principle in itself. This makes it much better than all lobby communities of various kinds that exist in the world. Wherever you travel outside the country, there most say: Great! How can we take over this? Many come here and want to create similar structures, and many recognize better than you do what is the advantage, namely: Just the little ones and the little ones will not speak otherwise! Those with businesses of 150 and more people, like you, would have the big word, and the small hospitality company, the small hoteler would never happen inside. [[Na-Rufe des Abg. Stroll.]] It was only about the interests of those who have enough money and enforce themselves. You know what? – This system allows you to invigorate yourself! Our current system, with the democratic principle, is a thousand times better, by the way also in the field of AK and in other areas. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] But back to what the board can do. I would also like to turn to the friends of the Economic Federation. This kind of polemics, which Mr Schellhorn has operated, which leads to the President's call for order, is in many things something to say: Do you need that?- Oh, my God! There is a part that is exaggerated and exaggerated, but there is always a part to think about. I also said very often in my personal conversation with Christoph Leitl: You need to be careful sometime! If you are opposed to federalism and waste through structures, someone will eventually put your finger on the point and ask: What do we need ten chambers for? And this is a point you have to consider from the overall conception. If you're acting like this and you're saying, We don't need all of this on structures, we can simplify everything together is the means of miracle... – Yes, for example. [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: What do ten Vice-Presidents need to do?]] They're falling away. If you only have one chamber, how much less do you have? Have you ever figured it out? A chamber instead of ten. Return to the question: One can take the view that one wants regional Chambers of Commerce and that there is a wealth of tasks for which one needs local Chambers of Commerce. I can lead the argument, but then I have to be careful in the external relationship that you don't have the song with others, which some journalists write: like stupid everyone – politics, administration – and that everything is too much. We don't need federal states, we don't need a local health phone, we don't need all of that. There is, but if you're involved, you're in danger of being checked on your own. Or you go here and you also defend the system where it makes sense, where there is subsidiarity, where you really have local structures that also need a local balance of interests between the social partners. Then you have to change the position. [[Interference of Vice-Chancellor Mitterlehner.]] I give a second example because Mr Schellhorn mentioned the tax reform. You said right today in defending the tax reform, we did not impose any additional burdens. By taking care of registers and other taxes, we do not raise taxes, yes, but we have to pay them all, and even if small and medium-sized enterprises have not yet been fully taxed, they will have to be tax more in the future. [[Abg. Gisela Worm: If all taxes pay, all pay less!]] Whether it has paid off for the Chamber of Commerce to stand on the front line in the defence of taxes for millions of heirs or even an asset tax for more than one million, it will turn out if the question is answered at the end of the day: Did it count? Because now there are many more affected, and 99.7 percent of all Austrian entrepreneurs have no business worth more than one million. Mr Schellhorn perhaps; the rest not. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] Therefore, the positions should be considered again: Is this the most reasonable in the economy as a whole? And there was nothing left to Christoph Leitl but to agree at the end of the day, because the mantra he carried in the last years of the tax reform discussion was: no millionaire taxes! – And there is no such thing now, and in this sense he has acted congruently. They were also on his side and therefore have no reason to criticise here, Mr Schellhorn. By the way: The system should be improved, but we need this chamber to continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e13740	The next item is Mrs Jank. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e13761	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Dear colleagues here in the hall and in the gallery! There I see a lot of young people and I am pleased that they have come to Parliament. [[Abg. Neubauer: Is still the last time!]] Actually, I do not know exactly why we are holding this debate under this heading, obviously in continuation of the tax debate or a general debate on the Chamber of Commerce. You yourself said that the answer to the question is all right, so from my point of view the reason why we are standing here is actually missing, but be there. We stand here and we will also talk about it in general. After all, you have received 1 600 answers, 1 600 answers that you can now analyze all up and down, but that doesn't change the fact that the Chamber of Commerce system is a system that works for the members. [[Abg. New builder: Go, please!]] And if you say the revenue from the chamber envelopes has become more: Yes, because we also have 40 percent more members! More members have more demands, need more services, need more support and thus simply cause a higher effort. This is an entrepreneurial principle. And it would be sad if membership contributions had not also increased by 40 percent due to the increase in the number of members. I also think it is very interesting that you want to release those who benefit most from the chamber system, namely the small companies, from the system. They have an organisation representing their interests in the Chamber of Commerce – and the colleague did so earlier. Yes, if you want to, you should ask the little ones if they want to, because then they have to buy the related chamber services in the free economy, which would be a multiple of the chamber environment. Especially the smallest pay the least, KU2: 150 000 € free limit – no small operation or hardly any one in this area pays a chamber envelope. Then you have to be very honest and say what you want to achieve with it: Put out political change? – Because that sounds good, of course, when you say: Get out of the chamber, you're so much better! It's not even better for the little ones. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And on the other hand, there are large farms. That is what you have criticized: the external economic system. The External Economic System is the system that enables such a small country as Austria to earn 60 percent of its economic success, that is, our prosperity abroad. And your proposals for merger have long been followed by the Chamber of Commerce. Of course, there are combinations of the Austrian foreign economy with state representations, of course one optimises there at all corners and ends. But a service facility like the chamber is still an institution where people are concerned. We don't produce anything, but we're service providers. And service means that we need people who provide this service, and we do it in an excellent way. [[Abg. New builder: This self praise is unbearable!]] This also confirms to us all the surveys we have, and I therefore believe that the whole system will not be well served if we speak badly and believe that the solution lies in the abolition or in the dissolution of the system – for that can only be your intention, with the vehemence and above all with the language with which you represent it. I mean – let me say this personally – such a language is inappropriate not only here in this House, but also for entrepreneurship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e13830	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Kassinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e13851	Madam President. High house! The current item on the agenda is a brief debate on the financing of the Chamber of Commerce. It has already been mentioned by the previous speakers about the “Systeme Wirtschaftskammer” (Systeme Wirtschaftskammer). I would also like to extend my speech in this direction. In fact, it is a system issue, the Chamber of Commerce is a system based on the compulsory obligation of its members, and this is a system that takes in €800 million annually in forced contributions. It must be legitimate to ask the question: Is there a relationship between the benefits that entrepreneurs derive from the Chamber of Commerce and the costs which the Chamber of Commerce represents for businesses or causes to entrepreneurs? In our view, this relationship between costs and benefits is not correct. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Stroll.]] As has been said, this €800 million, which entrepreneurs have to pay, is, among other things, a small part of the enormous tax and tax rate, the record tax and tax rate under which Austria's economic location is suffering. A few figures for the answer to the question. It has been mentioned before, the contributions have increased by more than a third over the last nine years. What surprises me or makes me think about it is that the reserves, reserves, make up the amount of €685 million, that is, there is a huge pile of money around and is available. What makes me thinkful is that for pensioners, one-fifth of the total staff expenditure is still spent on old-age workers, in sum of € 61 million. If you divide this by the 1,200 functionaries, then I come to an average additional board of over 50 000 € per year. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jank.]] So that's what you need to explain to your forced members, whether this is really as great as you always represent it. [[It was in favour of the FPÖ as well as of the representatives of the NEOS.]] It is also quite legitimate for representatives of the ÖVP or the Economic Federation or the Chamber of Commerce to defend this system. This is a system that, as it were, secures a beautiful workplace for about 5,000 functionalists or represents a small empire for the Austrian People's Party – and that is quite obvious – where one can operate and design. It is of course also defended by the Vice-President of the Chamber of Commerce of SPÖ. But I myself am not an ÖVPler, I am an entrepreneur and an Austrian, and I am dealing with the interests of entrepreneurship and the Austrian as a whole, and now I do not have to defend the Chamber of Commerce. Many useful steps have already been mentioned, of course they are rejected by those who have designed this system and want to maintain the system in this form. I'm just saying, Absence of non-sensible forced multiple memberships – rejected. The abolition of the chamber envelope 2, which was, by the way, only introduced as a provisional – today also rejected again. I do not really see the discharge for entrepreneurs – even today, in the context of the tax reform debate, the speech of discharges. I am also excited to see how these €1.9 billion under the title of “combating fraud” actually stand under the rule. Whether you say “trafficking” or whatever – this will ultimately pay back the companies. This is a very significant contribution, I see little relief. Here you can relieve by €300 million with a spring stroke. This would also put pressure on the system itself for reforms, for these structural reforms, which have been discussing – but not anymore – within the Chamber of Commerce for decades. Finally, one must trust in a free, developed and modern democracy and say: We also get out without compulsory membership. But that doesn't mean we get out without the chambers, but without forced membership. That would be the last step. But of that we are, I fear, still very far away. Those who want to take this path in the future and take these steps are well advised not to choose any of the two system parties in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e13921	Mr Vice-Kanzler Mitterlehner spoke next time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e13942	Mr Kassager, I almost got into the situation of having to make an actual correction, but you claimed that the officials of the Chamber of Commerce are pensioners, and then that you continued to do so with figures. I would like to say to you: No official of the Chamber of Commerce has a pension benefit! [[Abg. Kassinger: You know very well, these are the pensions of the old officials!]] Moreover, the numbers you mentioned are all wrong. As I am already speaking, this is not an actual correction, but a content clarification: Mr Schellhorn said that in other countries diplomatic representations and offices of the economy would be combined, only in Austria. That too is actually incorrect. In Berlin, the embassy, the representation of the foreign economy and the Austrian advertising are in a house, the same is true of Beijing. I think there are other examples. That means, here you go excellent and in the direction of synergies. I think this is a positive and extendable solution.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e13977	Thank you, Mr. Vice-Chancellor. In fact, it was not possible under the Rules of Procedure to correct them. But it was also a word message. Mr Köchl is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e14001	Dear ladies! Dear gentlemen! Appreciated spectators in front of the TV sets and on the gallery! Mr Schellhorn, I have to say, unfortunately, that you have not done a good job today, because through this overly populism you have actually done nothing good to justified criticism of the chamber apparatus. That's my view of this. On behalf of Mr Matznetter, who is now no longer among us, he has already left the meeting, I would like to allow myself to comment: “Whom I eat, the song I sing.” That's very true of him. [[I should like to congratulate Members of the Green Group and Members of the European Parliament on their work.]] He, as co-elected vice-president of the Austrian Chamber of Commerce, co-opted by black graces, will of course not speak against his post and against his function – he is a good speech tube for black-red in the Chamber of Commerce. [[Vice chancellor Mitterlehner: For this he was still sharp!]] For that he was probably sharp anyway. Then you can't co-operate it anymore, but that's your decision. There are some legitimate criticisms on the device. We ask ourselves the question: Why do you need 857 departments? Why do you need your own Chamber of State in every federal state? Why not create a federal chamber structure with offices in the countries? This infrastructure of the Chamber of Commerce is completely covered. The division of trade organizations is partly foreign to the world. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Obernosterer.]] We could, if we abolish certain areas – for example, the divisions in the Chamber of Commerce or also the national specialised representatives – create specialist organisations across the country, which would have been even more precisely divided and could address the interests in more detail. But you could also, and this is also a green idea, make a decentralization. The federal bodies, for example the cable car industry, could just as well sit in Innsbruck. That wouldn't have to be everything in Vienna. Decentralisation and at the same time slimmer structures are our announcement. We have already mentioned the multiple memberships today – yes, it makes sense to cash only once 100 € basic cover. In some areas it is in angry, it is true that the chamber apparatus, the administration, has grown by 44 percent over the past ten years, is too expensive and definitely in need of reform. There's nothing to do with that. But there are also bad tongues that say that we have a low unemployment rate in Austria, because everyone is sitting in the chamber equipment somewhere. This criticism is somewhat overly overly important, but it is true that staff and officials are given an absurdly high level for 8 million people in Austria. So there's a lot to do here. To chamber size 2: If you here ask the NEOS to delete the chamber envelope 2 completely at the end of the year, I do not think this is serious, because this would take away two thirds of the funds from some Chambers of the State. Serios would be a request, in which you say that you drive the chamber 2 down to zero in five years, because as a green person, of course, we are there. That would be a serious request without cutting and believing with the wood hammer, something like this will find our approval. The fact that the chamber and the whole chamber are in the constitutional rank is only a side-by-side aspect, but it should also be mentioned – from our point of view, this is completely overlaid. As regards transparency in the Chamber of Commerce: This is also not a great friendship between the Chamber of Commerce and the topic of transparency. There are a few things in the arrogance, even as regards pension provisions, also as regards some figures which are not published here today. But you've heard that before. If you look at the backlogs of the Chamber of Commerce only once – that is €685 million – and this is simply divided by 407,000 traders, then the figure is €1 685. That's not little. If I take the number of business tickets, I still come to 1 470 € reserves per business license. That's a hell of a lot. I could now say, as promised by the “Eder-Tusender” at the time of accession to the EU, that is now the “Köchl-Tausen- der”. If you reimburse only two thirds of the deposit of the Chamber, each entrepreneur and each entrepreneur would have a thousand more than a premium. This would be a possibility, for example, because the reserves in this chamber apparatus are not necessary to this extent. There's a need for action here. However, I really believe that we should lead the debate a little more serious than it was today from NEOS, that it was not basically with the blue side wood hammer and NEOS side to the chamber structure on it, but rather changed the structure, fundamentally changed, creating modern body structures, creating fewer bodies, creating decentralisations, and overall creating a reasonable, slender and well-managed chamber apparatus. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e14052	The next item is the report by Mr Vetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e14073	Greetings, Madam President! Minister! High house! We from the Stronach team are happy every time, even if it comes from another party when a subject like this is being edited, which is really about the question: Freedom or compulsion? How much freedom can we afford? How much pressure do we need? How much forced happiness can we afford? – This is the question behind the NEOS request. We, this is not a secret, are very critical of the forced membership. We don't think it's necessary. We live in a country where forced happiness has a very high tradition. When I started studying, I was forced to become a member of the Austrian University School. Then I became a member of the Chamber. Then I had to pay social security. Then I had to pay double social security, although I can only be sick once. I have to pay the ORF fees, and so on and so on. It is simply and simply a natural reaction, actually something that any democrat should have in mind to challenge these forced happinesss individually each time. If you are serious about fundamental and freedom rights, you should ask yourself the question again and again: Do we really need that? [[Congratulations with the Stronach team as well as the Loacker and Strolz MP.]] That is why I would like to thank you for the opportunity that we can do that this time too. These questions, which have been asked to the Minister, also include many financial aspects, so I would like to point out that many people who work in the protected area have the feeling of their own importance correlated with the level of their salary, regardless of whether they produce this salary on the free market or not. That is why I find the question of how high the pensions paid in the chambers are particularly justified, because they are ultimately paid by people who are forced to do so. Substantial Forced Members and Debursement: It is also significant that contributions to the Chamber of Labour are never mentioned on the payroll note, for example, that they always swim with social security contributions in any way. It's just a few euros every month, but the employee doesn't see it. In the sense of transparency, it would finally be time to show that extra. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach and NEOS.]] As we have heard today, the “poor” government has a great deficit, namely, a deficit in praise. She's always looking for praise. How many today have asked the opposition to finally praise them! But today we have balanced this by a lot of self- praise. It is only necessary to think of Mr Matznetter's statement that he has managed in almost rhetorical perfection to equate pressure and democracy here. He said that this tax reform, if I understood it correctly, does not include any tax increases at all. And in the end – and this is already almost elegant and funny – he has suggested to the Chamber of Commerce that it should also be used for inheritance taxes and, so to speak, to accept socialism on the one hand, so as to avoid taxes on the other. It is already an interesting tactic, which is played here, that you put the 1.9 billion € corruption somehow into the room, so to speak, the whip, and the sugar bread if it once agreed to the inheritance taxes. [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: Very sharp everything, really!]] If that were true with the €1.9 billion, then the Minister of Justice would have to build new prisons for a long time, because then hundreds of criminals who were behind taxes would walk around here and belong to prison. By the way, this is an old hat with these corruptions, because I remember: Last May, when Mr Spindelegger suddenly missed a billion in the budget and the letter came from Brussels, it was stated in the reply letter that 750 million € are brought in from the fight against corruption. So this is a particularly interesting tactic, whenever the budget has a gap, the fight against corruption is enchanted from the hat. I am curious whether, if this continues to rise as from € 700 million to € 1.9 billion, we will have reached €4 billion next time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e14122	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e14143	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr Matznetter – he is not in the hall now – I have understood this way: Be careful, if you wish for reforms, it could happen to you yourself! – That’s how I would briefly sum up his speech. Those of the NEOS, who are few, the Chamber of Economics officials, would not be angry if they themselves were to wear it. Mrs Jank has said that we should ask the small Members if they want to do so. – Mrs. Jank, this is the problem that no one is asked if he wants to do it, that he simply has to have five business certificates when it goes stupid, for his business. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] And we'd like to be asked. We would like to be asked as members of the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Workers and so on. [[Interference of Vice-Chancellor Mitterlehner.]] – Not a general survey, which you campaign with the forced contributions and then camp in your own bag, but an individual decision. There are voluntary associations that work very well. The colleagues from the ÖGB know that there are associations based on voluntary membership that work well. There is a board and an association among the pharmacists, and 94 percent of the pharmacists are in the pharmacy association. It goes, even if you can't imagine that. It works! [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Dietrich.]] Ask the little ones, Mrs. Jank, if they like the staffing effort per employee at the Chambers of Commerce is €120 000 a year. That's not what your little members normally do. And if we're already with the government, It is always managed in its own bag. It's bothering people. Now, with your super tax package, add the maximum contribution base. And what is the further consequence of this? – The pensioners of luxury pensions, whose pension we have cut a bit with tiredness and need – and this includes enough business chamberers – are now getting more of their luxury pension again because the circumcision is oriented at the highest contribution base. That's why you pushed your clienttel back in a little bit. I am not allowed to say the Vorarlberger proverb about this, which is what the devil is doing in such cases, otherwise I will call for an order. Mr Bundesminister, you have also pointed out that these are bodies distributed there and there and are therefore not subject to the right of interconnection. And no minister thinks anything about it? There is this at the Chamber of Commerce, there is at the Chamber of Labour: The groups simply form societies, and with the forced contributions, they are managed in these distributed societies, and they are deprived of that of your ministerial supervision. And you like that? – Yes, because it is your own people! I've got to keep an eye on what word I'm using. That's all a family, a grand one, and you give each other your hand. They have also said that the amount of the chamber envelopes is to be clarified in the chambers and not by law. But you are only right in part because the law already says how far you can go, and you can certainly set limits for chamber envelopes by law. [[Vice chancellor Mitterlehner: They are there eh!]] They'll be there anyway. And you can also reduce these chamber size limits by law if the never-sat organizations stuff their pockets to the maximum. [[Abg. Amon: There needs a majority to do that!]] – Yes, we will also strive for a majority for this, dear Werner. That's not gonna stop us today. And when we're just passing over to the Chamber of Workers: There is always great campagnation: More net of gross! I would like to see the contribution of the Chamber of Workers to “More Net of Gross”. There have been out-of-tour increases in the maximum contribution base in 2004, 2008, 2012 and again this year. And every year, when there are tourist increases that take place as a percentage of the former, the workers' chamberers cut in disproportionately again and stuff their pockets. They have a 40 percent chamber capacity growth at a time when inflation was 20 percent. There was an increase in staff levels, where pension provisions were bloated. You just spent the money with both hands. When I assembled this in Vorarlberg, workers' chamber director Keckeis said: Well, we have an outsourced society with which we have built a chamber building, and for this the Chamber of Labour has had to assume several million euros of liability! – Yes, they also assume liability! What's that shop? You can't look at that. The red and black chambers understand themselves as party leaders and serve their own people. The fact that some people have the knife in their bag is just normal. We will therefore not stop acting against it.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e14215	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[15:48:40]] Short debate on a deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e14236	We are now coming to the brief debate on the request of the honourable Member. Haider, ladies and gentlemen, the Tourism Committee on Reporting on Amendment 910/A(E) by Members Mag. Haider, ladies and gentlemen, a deadline until 21. ==References== After the end of this debate, the vote will take place on the proposed deadline. Mr Haider, you're already at the speaker's desk. I would draw your attention to the fact that your speaking time as a first speaker is 10 minutes. - Now you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e14264	Madam President. Federal Minister! [[Call the FPÖ:He's going right now!]] High house! - Goodbye, Minister of State! [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: I'll be back soon!]] I am not surprised that you are now taking the hare panic, I remind you of one for you, I suppose, very unpleasant situation from last week, when on Tuesday the whole tourism industry protested against the tax measures that you are doing with this tax reform of the tourism industry. [[the speaker puts a table on the speaker’s desk with the inscription “WKO”, “Django, play the song of the host god!”, “Close with Schikanen”]] [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: A special joke!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, since the title of the proposal for which a deadline is to be decided here is a bit bulky and since it is also a bookkeeping concept, I will explain briefly what it is all about. If a company makes an investment – let's say, a sauna is built in a hotel – then it will not be less expensive to write off these costs in the first year, in return for profit, but instead divide them for several years, which is called depreciation. In Austria, if these investments are solid building components, this depreciation is to be made for 33 years, and that is already the core of the problem here. They all can't imagine God, thank you, as it is to sit in a 33-year-old sauna, because every hoteler is forced to invest after seven, eight, at the latest after ten years, because the guests are not otherwise. This is the very core of the problem. Therefore, it is useful – even if one has financed the whole with loans, which do not run to 33 years, like the depreciation of a sauna, but only on the economic life of the sauna – to reduce this long depreciation period, which leads to a completely distorted economic presentation, to 15 years. This is the core of the discussion in recent years. There have also been long-term project ideas by the government parties, but nothing has happened so far. That is why I tabled this request in February, and I really would never have thought that this request would once be the subject of a deadline. As early as 2009 or 2010, I made such a request, he was in the Financial Committee, and I still heard Mrs Tamandl's statement in the ear – of course, the request has been postponed, I do not need to say that – she said: The application is successful and good, but it is therefore delayed because the tax reform – the then tax reform – has been planned to reduce the delay in depreciation anyway. – But you needed a very long time, Mrs. Tamandl! And also in the tourism strategy “New Ways in Tourism”, which Minister Mitterlehner presented very proudly in February 2010, on page 20 among the measures for 2010 and 2011 is to be read: ‘AfA: Approach to the economic life of wellness and leisure infrastructure: instead of 33 years, 15 years.’ Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, this has, in the truest sense, gone backwards. As the chairman of the Committee on Tourism in this House, I cannot simply shake my head and go to the agenda, all the more so as this action by the Federal Government is not the only one that meets the people in tourism. To be honest, that this project is not to be implemented, but rather that it should be extended to 40 years, is not the worst thing, I just need to think about the Kest increase. 60 percent of the top companies in tourism are GmbHs, and with each profit distribution, the state is now cutting more. – So much to your awareness that the economy would not be taxed. This really surprises me, where 16 economists and thus economic operators are in the ranks of the ÖVP. All of these are measures, ladies and gentlemen – I took away last week when I took this board, which is on the speaker's desk, from the ball house square – for which the yellow cards of the tourism industry have been shown to you several times, and you know that two yellow cards are a red card. [[The speaker shows a yellow round Taferl, on which stands “13 %”, which is stretched through]] [[The speaker shows two of the yellow Taferls]] [[The speaker shows a red round Taferl standing on the “13%” that has been pushed through.]] And the red card now shows you the Freedom Party for the tourism industry for the measures you have taken here and which only serve to burden the tourism industry in this country! [[the members of the FPÖ shall keep the appropriate red Taferl in height]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You do not seem to be clear, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP, that Austria's tourism is in international competition. The Federal Republic of Germany has reduced VAT from 19 to 7 percent, Switzerland has 3.6 percent, the EU recommends 5 percent – and what does Austria do? – You increase the reduced VAT rate from 10 to 13 percent! This is true of the tourism industry. 10 billion revenues – you know that, Col. Obernosterer – make the tourism industry in Austria with the overnight stays, which is almost 1 billion tax revenues. That's all right, too. Only: If the tax is now increased by 30 percent, these 300 million extra costs can not be easily transferred to the guest. There are long-term contracts, there are long-term contracts with travel agencies and with tour operators. And neither does it help if you say that this is true in April 2016. The contracts go until 2017! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Obernosterer.]] In this way, it is also a pang when the Minister of Finance says: Yes, then we move it by one month to May 2016! - That's a frog! That's how you deal with the tourism companies! And you know very well: On average, 2 percent is the result of ordinary business activities in tourism. That is, 2 percent is profit margin. If you still have 3 percent tax increase to bear, there is only one thing – that is also clearly said by the managing director of the hotel and tourism bank: There will be only 10 percent of tourism businesses to be positive. - All the others will make a loss. It's that simple! And that's what you're going to do with this so-called tax reform. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But it is not only this increase in VAT in tourism that is counterproductive, even theatre cards are becoming more expensive, then demand is falling, and then we are allowed to subsidise more again, which is again the other area. Cinema cards also become more expensive, and we know that most cinema visitors are between 10 and 25 years old, so people who don't even have income. For these boys, leisure expenditure increases again with this counterproductive measure. But that's well-known: On the one hand, a little bit is returned to the pockets, which you then call great “tax reform” or “tariff reform”, and on the other hand, you take this out of the pockets with the tax increase. People are aware of this, and that is why they are also mad with regard to this tax reform. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If you now say that you have implemented a 200 million package for the economy in the tax reform, I'll tell you: These 200 million come from tourism and come from the increase in VAT. Tourism is financing the industry with 200 million! You did that! This is how the ÖVP deals with the tourism industry, so you don't have to wonder if the host shows you what they think about it! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now I could talk about the acquisition tax. At present, if you were to hand over a hotel with 3 million traffic values to the young generation, it would amount to €3,700, after the increase you want to make, it would be €66,000. Another attack on the tourism industry. Or: the registration fee obligation. I'm not against the registers, it's about the height. A businessman with a turnover of €30 000 does not need to be taxed. So who's to cheat on? Why this 15 000€ limit? – All of this is completely unforgivable. Keep doing the following: With this – tourism reform I would have said soon, but a negative – tax reform on the general attack on tourism: Depreciation-renewal, KESt increase, acquisition tax increase, VAT increase, registration fee requirement, bank secrecy withdrawal – without exception measures taken only by the tourism industry. Coming to the end: Here I have a petition from the Austrian Hoteliers Association: ‘Mr Minister for Finance: Holidays must not be more expensive!" There it says: “Mr. Minister of Finance, I need my vacation!- Oh, my God! Don’t let him get more expensive.” On the homepage it says: “Help us with your signature”. – I like to help, I definitely agree with that. [[The speaker signed the petition.]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] To conclude: The three pillars of Austrian tourism were once – this is my last sentence, Madam President, because I see that the red light is already shining – the Alps with summer and winter tourism, the mountains, the lakes and the rivers and – third – the cities with the culture. Today we have: Smoking ban, allergen regulation and VAT increase – and that is what you have done. – Good night, tourist location Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e14400	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Unterrainer. I would draw attention to the fact that the next speakers have 5 minutes of speaking time available. Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e14429	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Values Watchers on the ranks and at home in front of the televisions! To Mr Haider's request: The application was made on 25 May. Introduced in February 2015 and assigned to the Tourism Committee. Treatment has not yet been started. Today we are talking about tax reform and not about the apparent satisfaction of particular interests. Today, we are launching a tax reform that is looking for the same – we have already heard this several times today and have also been proved – where small and medium-sized incomes are taxed significantly, but which is facing an acceptable counter-financing: More net of gross, people should have more in stock exchange. It would be fatal to place the satisfaction of individual interests in the foreground of the overall result. For a tax reform – Peter, you are not in line now – with a discharge of around €5 billion, it takes a balanced counter-financing. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm]] There is nothing less than the relief of people in the country where pensioners, students and pensioners are relieved as much as the self-employed. - That's interesting for you, too, Peter. It is a counter-financing with reason, a financing that highlights honesty – and that is very important to me. If everyone paid their taxes, you could also reduce taxes. Tax justice is not only a question of redistribution, but also the payment of tax debts. Tax fraud is not a cavalier crime, but theft of the company and belongs accordingly to the company. On the other hand, on the other hand, I am quite clearly opposed to the fact that some industries are being set up as tax fraud on a flat-rate basis. However, I am also quite clear that honest entrepreneurs have a disadvantage because others do not comply with the rules. [[Congratulations and reputation at the SPÖ:Right!]] As we have already heard today, well-known external experts in the tax reform issue a very good witness. It is used to boost the economy. We expect to achieve an additional economic growth of at least 0.5 per cent per year – as the Federal Minister has already done today. In addition, the recovery of the labour market, which we need very, very urgently. The following applies to us: Man first, a tax reform for all, more money in the stock exchange, more distribution justice! This is the government's manuscript. If people are fine, we're all fine. We as SPÖ have made a promise to people and we have kept it. We have promised and implemented a significant reduction in the wage tax to workers. With the tax calculator on the Internet, you can easily calculate how much the reduction of the wage tax brings each and every one. We take our work seriously. We accept the laws with the greatest responsibility. We are working out the individual points in a serious and targeted manner, so that at the end of the day we can find out what we have set ourselves as a goal: a tax reform that really deserves its name and also comes with those who need it most. There are about 60 laws under this tax reform, which we have to set in motion for Austria. To present it practically: A single parent with an income of approximately 1 100 € per month saves itself by the discount on social security 285 €, which means the school ski course is financed. This is useful to the mother, which benefits the child and it benefits our tourism, which, of course, I like as a tourist speaker. That is why I am against the rapid shots, Mr Haider. A deadline request does not replace a joint discussion, a quick shot does not offer a solution. With all appreciation, I see the approach here extremely critical. Possible internal differences do not belong to the agenda but to the interest in common solutions. That is why I believe that this request should be rejected. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e14469	The next item is the speech by Mr Obernoster. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e14490	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and at home in front of the TV screens! To Mr Haider's request for a deadline: He really surprised me, because it is precisely the Tourism Committee, which almost always decides unanimously on proposals – because we always, when dealing with issues relating to tourism, put ourselves together before, across the borders of the political groups, and try to speak through them and coordinate them in advance in order to reach unanimous decisions. [[Abg. Haider:... stop!]] What you have done with your remarks on the speaker's desk today does not serve tourism. I know the package that was tied. I also know, as a practicing touristist, as a host host and as a hoteler, what is meant by that, and I also know the numbers. Of course, it is not a package for tourism that makes us rejoice and shout, but we know what alternatives there have been. Starting here to discuss a problem that is far from any reality, and to say that it is €200 million in surplus income by increasing from 10 to 13 percent, this is simply unfair. – It is 100 million €, quite clearly calculated. [[Abg. Haider: 100 million? can be given!]] You know that we do not bring in the entire half board with 13 percent, but that breakfast and dinner are calculated. Germany has 7 percent for the night, that's right. – But please also say that in Germany it is 19 percent on food! As a merchant you can also count together: 50 percent on meals with a half board, 50 percent on the nights, 19 percent in Germany and 7 percent in Austria, 10 percent and 13 percent in Austria. So, I think you should stick to the facts. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] As regards amortisation period: Of course, we need to discuss and ask where old laws exist, which can no longer keep pace with the present time concerning depreciation. Here it is argued that no one lies in a room, which is therefore 33 years old, because one cannot write the renovation before. - That's just wrong. I can write off any equipment in a room after 10 years at the latest. The 33 years refer only to the fixed Cuba, saying: on the walls. The same applies to the sauna. I ask you in the sense of tourism: Let us try to find together solutions that are useful to tourism! With this polemics and these incorrect figures, we insecure the touristists and damage the tourist location of Austria. Tourism is an economic factor that we can be proud of. We know that this package contains a number of things that are not particularly useful to tourism. [[Abg. Peter Worm: Harmful! It's harmful to tourism!]] We know with regard to the acquisition tax that the entire acquisition tax will amount to €35 million. We also know that the calculations are wrong, and we know the statement of Vice chancellors and German chancellors that nothing will change in the direct succession of the business succession. We are not insecure tourists, but we are trying to make improvements together and negotiate the latter before this new law comes into consideration! My group will reject this request. We will go to the Committee on Tourism and not lead here at the Polemik speaker's desk with material and content good requests that are useful to tourism. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e14576	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Hauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e14597	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Listeners in the High House and on the TV screens! Basically, I have to say, I have been affected several times today. We are discussing a topic – the topic of tourism – and the competent minister, Mr. Vice-Chancellor Mitterlehner, leaves the hall during this discussion! This shows a lack of appreciation for an industry that secures jobs. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ, representatives of the Stronach team and the Abg. Schellhorn.]] [[Intercessors of Deputies Peter Wurm, Obernoster and Prince.]] – You can speak, please! – It is an industry that is of incredible importance for rural areas, and one ignores their fears. [[Abg. Obernoster: Didn't you listen to me?]] One pretends that the tax reform would have become one too one wonderful cast, where every industry is satisfied, and deliberately ignores the fears of a complete industry – even the whole morning, during this tax reform debate – which points to the many problems. Without tourism, the rural area is really hollowed out, lost, it secures jobs, it creates jobs. What are we doing in rural areas without the tourism industry? This sector has indeed been discriminated against for years. It is not just about the current tax package, it is not just about increasing VAT from 10 to 13 percent. It is about the fact that a large number of measures have recently come into being in the tourism sector, which is forcing many tourists to say: If that goes on, I won't find a transferee! We don't keep this up, we're forced to be at the guest's round the clock around the clock to work around the clock! We are hard to swallow these burdens at all: from the Allergen Regulation to the discussion on smoking freedom! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schimanek.]] First, investment is made in smoke-free locals – incredibly much money is being taken into their hands – and now there is the discussion about the fact that in the future only more smoke-free locals will be available in the future. Is anyone supposed to know?- Oh, my God! First, it was invested – that there is frustration, is perfectly normal. Furthermore, the increase in VAT, the registration requirement for small and micro-enterprises, the increase in basic income tax, the debate on accessibility. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Obernosterer.]] Next year, the Nutrition Labelling Regulation is to come where those concerned are already rightly pointing out that this is a further bureaucratic burden on the industry. The problems extend to the difficult financing of the industry, keyword: Basel III. In the meantime, it has become incredibly difficult to actually finance in this sector. They then do the following: In the debate on tax reform, you ignore the protest of your colleagues they know. In my view, this is a betrayal of the colleagues in the tourism industry who, on the other hand, are entitled to storm and say: It can't go on like this! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] A complete industry, under quotations, I quote, is “put to death”. [[The speaker shows a corresponding newspaper article of the “Tyrol daily newspaper”.]] Here in the high house, the political representatives of this party of the Economic Union are pretending to be all right. It is perfectly normal and logical that frustration about this policy occurs not only among entrepreneurs but generally in the population. For the deadline application: Mr Obernosterer and so on, please read this deadline request carefully. What's this about? – It is about making a decision today that we will have to reach the 21st century. In April, a Tourism Committee was convened to discuss this request. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Obernosterer.]] What is bad about calling up another tourism committee? I think it is significant that we must fight for every tourism committee meeting. Up to now, about two were planned per year. [[Abg. Darmann: Insanity!]] It is thanks to our chairman, Mr Roman Haider, that there has been another meeting. – This shows no appreciation for this industry. At least four Committee meetings should be held to ensure that the industry is properly valued. [[I should like to congratulate the FPÖ, the representatives of the NEOS and the Deputies Willi and Steinbichler.]] I'm telling you quite honestly: This petition of the Austrian Hotel Association: ‘Mr Minister for Finance: Holidays should not become more expensive!”, I agree with enthusiasm today and here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e14718	The next item is the speech by Mr Willi. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e14740	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! So we are talking about amortization, specifically about amortization in tourism. After all, amortizations always have the sense of being able to see the current value of the company's ability to keep accounts and to represent the loss of value as a cost – that is, something quite normal, where everyone says: It needs to be done! Mr Haider has done what almost all of us have done: He has looked at the Council of Ministers' presentation on tax reform, and there is on page 4: The government wants to boost the economy, i.e. invest, create jobs and so on. Then Mr. Haider leaves and probably finds on the previous page what I have found, and there says: "For the purpose of simplifying tax law, a uniform depreciation rate of 2.5 % shall be applied within the framework of building depreciation. Depending on the type of use the buildings have been differentiated in terms of depreciation.” That's what he thought: How's that? The touristists – these are your people – have been yelling for years: Give us the opportunity to write down certain things in tourism faster! Who of us likes to be in a 40-year-old bathtub or sleep in a 40-year-old bed? – It's just sent down. Everyone is happy to go to a new hotel that has been invested in. Therefore, it is also necessary to give the entrepreneur the opportunity to write off his investments in a shorter period of time – that is, until reinvestment. I see that black and red defend what's in there and no longer find any arguments: You are already in a retreat fight because no one understands that especially in tourism, where we all wish that the facilities and hotels are always up-to-date – wellness changes very quickly, climate change technology changes very quickly and so on – that just as the depreciation time is now suddenly to be extended from 33 to 40 years. Where does that lead? – This leads people to ask: How am I supposed to invest? They will tend to invest less, they will boost the economy. Gabriel Obernosterer says: No, we don't need all of this, we do – you said we have the right to do everything in the Tourism Committee. [[Abg. Obernosterer: I didn't say that!]] Now we have to talk about it, because it's up to you, that's on the table, and that's what's coming! That is why it is completely wrong to defend their longer depreciation times in this case, because they are anti-economic, they are anti-tourism – and I am excited how this match will continue. I come from Tyrol, how you might hear a little bit. In Tyrol there are still many hotels in the “Lederhosenstyle” of the 1970s and 1980s – with urgent need for recovery. It would be necessary to invest. The signal this Federal Government sends with this longer depreciation period is: Let the old huts stand and see how you're about it! And that's the wrong signal. We want an innovation boost, we want new building technology, we want to get out of the hotels with fewer fuels, we want modern bathrooms, beds and so on. Therefore, I do not understand that you do not agree with this deadline request by ÖVP and SPÖ. You do not even have to accept the content of the request, but if you do not agree to the deadline request, you will refuse to discuss it. I do not take your opinion away from you, but now that the tax reform is on the table as a Council of Ministers' presentation, I do not think that it is harmful to the industry. That is why I must say that Mr Haider is right that he wanted to put this issue on the agenda. I wish that the representatives of the ÖVP – who always pretend to be the representatives of tourism – would be urgently involved in this issue and cut down on this much too long period of depreciation for tourism, because only then can we really boost the economy.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e14791	The next item is the speech by Mr Steinbichler.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e14825	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Madam President. Dear spectators on the gallery, but especially in front of the televisions! [[Call: But you've already cut it off, or]] I should like to add the following to Mr Hauser's statement: I too have expected the Minister to be present on this important issue. Finally, one hears again and again how important the gastronomy, the hotel industry and the hostess are, but unfortunately I have to put the tree in the place where the minister should actually sit. But perhaps this is more impressive and makes more attention to the subject than if the Minister were here and I could personally hand over the tree to him. In any case, the tree has a background, because Mr Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Economic Affairs have today agreed to say that we have an ecological tax reform. I'd like to replicate on that. 48 percent of the area of Austria – which has to do with tourism and quality of life for all of us – is covered with forest. This is good for quality of life, for water and air quality. But it is certainly not possible to talk about an ecological tax reform if the last tax reform has made a stock assessment of farms over 10 hectares, has made a 300 percent increase in the standard farms and – now it comes! – with this tax reform oil and gas no more taxed, but with wood the tax rate increases again by 3 percent. Ladies and gentlemen, this tree should be the memory of the Federal Government to make an ecological tax reform in the framework of the next tax reforms. The whole thing has a limit. The tree needs a bit of hierarchy – Mr colleague, I can explain to you today on the children's issues a little bit about the 4000-€ labour income, but now we are in the ecological tax reform. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] The whole thing has a border, because in a hundred years, this tree is stiff, and I hope that a federal government, which is still in place before this tree is over, implements the ecological tax reform. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Abg. Wooger: Such a fool!]] Back to tourism. There, as with all the other requests in the committees, we have the very problem that the government is delaying. I think we have to explain this to the spectators at the visitor gallery and in front of the television: This is not due to the always-unanimously condemned policy, but to the government. The government postpones 16:12 in relation to the committees, the government is voting against the most necessary reforms in this House. We have experienced this in the tax reform: Instead of reforms, new burdens come. We see it now in tourism, there is an honest effort, there is a deadline request from the committee chairman, Haider, but this too is rejected. That's what we have to stop! This is damaging to tourism, and this is damaging to a positive balance sheet. I am convinced that Mr Schellhorn will say something about this. In quality tourism, this is not only the case with the buildings, but also the food. There we have just as valuable applications for domestic food. This is about the fact that tourism not only advertises with the super well-kept cultural landscape, with our excellent water quality and air quality, but also lends to our guests from Germany or abroad the excellent food that is often seen on the brochures. It is about that guests can taste these foods and in the ideal case take them home because they are convinced that this quality is worthwhile and the holiday feeling is extended because they can also enjoy this quality at home. Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, we have great responsibility. And with regard to Colleagues Wöginger: We are going to talk about childcare at the following agenda items, but one thing is clear: If we continue in this way, we do so at the expense and expense of our grandchildren and our children, but especially the grandchildren. That is why I would like us to make decisions in the future in the direction of granddaughter and not wait, but decide. Otherwise, we have the problem of discussing important requests, important reforms for years, so that they no longer achieve the effect that would be necessary. In this sense, I really ask you to support this deadline proposal from the overall point of view of Austria's tourist location. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e14899	Mr Steinbichler, I should like to ask you to take the tree back. It is beautiful, but otherwise the employees of the house have to drag off with it. I think it was an action that everyone saw. [[Abg. Steinbichler goes in the direction of his seat without clearing the tree.]] [[Abg. Head: Steinbichler, take the tree with you again!]] [[Abg. Steinbichler takes the tree from the government bank and goes back towards his seat.]] The next item is the speech by Mr Schellhorn. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e14943	Thank you, Madam President. Despite my efforts to behave linguistically now, I should like to point out: I didn't fully understand this at first, perhaps because of that, because "Chuzpe" comes from the Jewish and actually means "unfrozenness". And in this respect I believe that one can say “unfrozenness” already; I would like to say that. Dear Gabriel Obernosterer, I understand you have to defend this as a party soldier, but I think you really have to stream your speech. This speech must be carried out to the people, to the entrepreneurs, to the hoteliers, when it comes to tourism, which must be in the picture about it. Especially on the basis of your speech, it becomes clear why so many hoteliers now leave the Economic Federation and why so many people and entrepreneurs are frustrated by this Causa. In my opinion, it is also a pity that you refuse the discussion. If you're talking about the need for tourism: It is only a request from Mr Haider for discussion in the committee and not a decision on the substance of the matter! You should think about it again. It is particularly important that we come to a committee so that we can reach a consensus on what instruments we are taking in order that tourism might be better off and that it should not be used as a milk cow for tax reform. You defend that too! That's what you hear. Words like: Okay, the increase for Logis, that's what customers pay! - If you said so, I have to stop you: There you have to press the school bench again and visit the hotel's specialist school once again, so you know how price enforcement and cover contributions work. I can only thank Mr Hauser: We should not beg for tourism committees here! Rather, it should be seen that we are discussing all these things. Mr. Unterrainer, if I can only renovate the bathroom after 40 years in my hotel room, because these things are firmly built, tell the installer in Altenmarkt that he can no longer occupy a job! The tourist locomotives are just like that, tourism is also a cross-sectional matter! Through tourism, entire valleys such as the Zillertal and the Gastein Valley are occupied, including crafts and construction. It is therefore bad if you defend it that way. Throughout the history these packages are unexplained the logis concerning and where they are included. Do you have to divide that out? If you still defend that, I can only tell you: Logis, the stay is the main part! This means that the other parts also slide up to 13 percent. It's not that we can do bad – you can do bad in a way, too – but: The percentage burden must be swallowed by Austrian entrepreneurs in free competition, which they cannot pass on. It's written to you in the main book. A fundamental problem is surely the acquisition tax, but the main problem – Mr Willi said it – is that you do not understand that there is a need for a functional depreciation in tourism – and nothing else! That's the core problem! The fact that tourism has not been addressed is clear to me, otherwise a client policy will immediately be blamed for. But it should be recognized that the effects of small and medium-sized enterprises are inconvenient. That would have been a real economic engine. Unfortunately, however, the economic party, which is no longer an economic party – the ÖVP – has totally failed. And I'm sorry! I'm sorry for the location, I'm sorry for the entrepreneurs, but I'm even more sorry about the jobs. In this respect, I see this as a general task. You already have after the first game w.o. I think that is particularly unfortunate. What else can you do? – I believe that a key issue should be how to relieve businesses. That would certainly be to do with the resolution of the chamber envelope 2. It would certainly also be feasible if you were finally to increase the EW budget. Unfortunately, the Minister of Tourism is not here, and what he gives of himself is word aid. But if you could do something in this respect, it would be beneficial. But how do we do it? . A proposal that has been on the table for ten years, namely the clear “365 days of work in tourism”, has clearly been refused by ÖVP and SPÖ over the last ten years. In this respect, I think it would be particularly effective if we were to discuss this in the committees and there would be a committee meeting in April. This is necessary for tourism! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e15010	Mr Schellhorn, I have not given you a call for an order for the expression ‘Chuzpe’. You will be included in the Stenographic Protocol then you can read the expression you mentioned and for which you received a call for order. No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Tourism to report on the motion 910/A(E) by Mr Mag. Haider, colleagues, a deadline until 21. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the deadline request to give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. Rejected. [[16:31:30]] 6. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government Template (480 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Announcement Act 1991, the Pass Act 1992, the Arms Act 1996 and the Law on the Federal Office for Corruption Prevention and Corruption (Security Management Adjustment Act 2015 – SVAG 2015) (524 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e15059	We're coming to the 6th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mrs Mag. Steinacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e15086	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Appreciate fellow citizens! “violence is the last refuge of the unable,” wrote the American writer Isaac Asimov. But what is the victim's refuge? Where can you be sure of violence, especially when it happens in the family? – Women’s homes offer this refuge to those affected. 30 women's homes throughout Austria are available to women with violence or violence. There they can live temporarily with other women in a similar situation and with their children. The government template on the Security Management Adjustment Act has a clear objective: the protection of those concerned. People who have to stay in care facilities such as emergency homes or women's homes can in future be reported at the address of the care facility and not at the actual residence address. This cannot be understood where exactly the person concerned can be found. That's how we protect the victims from further violence. In addition, with our amendment, we implement a barrier to information. In this way, we want to prevent violent family members from being able to track down those affected. The amendment of the Reporting Act brings you, valued citizens, more security. We're also changing the arms law. In the future, the registration of weapons in the central Weapons registers always only take place on a natural person. This means the assignment of a personal responsibility, even if the weapon belongs to a club. If registration is delayed, but the registration obligation is voluntaryly complied with, this should also be punishable in the future and can be done without penalty. In the future, we will also be able to apply for a gun register certificate by means of the citizen's card, which is online. A clear administrative simplification is therefore implemented for our citizens. Shorter paths and faster procedures are the goal. Finally, we change the passport law to protect the children. If a court orders the acceptance of a child's travel document in the event of disputes, the passport authority will also be informed in the future. This ensures that unauthorised parents cannot issue a new travel document. It's about protecting the child. It is intended to prevent the child from leaving with the unauthorised parent. This regulation creates legal certainty and prohibits abuse. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we had constructive cooperation and broad approval in the Committee on the Interior. In summary, this is a successful innovation: With your consent, they enable more victim protection, greater legal certainty and faster administrative channels for our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e15140	Next, Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e15162	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! On the one hand, my previous speaker has already put the points very objectively to the point, as I have now almost tried to say. It was really a very constructive discussion in the Committee on the Interior. It really shows: If we take seriously the wishes, concerns and needs of our fellow citizens – whether they are adults or children – because, as far as we are concerned with this Security Management Adjustment Act, which we decide today, we are actually doing something very quickly and uncomplicated, which is in the interests of our citizens on the one hand and on the other hand serves security. It's all possible to connect. A point might have been a little short: In my opinion, the change with regard to women in need is a quantum leap. This change in reporting has long been a legitimate concern for women who are physically threatened. I therefore believe that these rules, which we are making today, are not only in the interest of these women, but also in the interest of humanity. I am very positive and I have already been to the Committee, because there was, on a broad basis, an understanding of these materials, which is not always the case in the Committee on the Interior. When it comes to the fact that we are changing something in the reporting system, it is also a problem that we all know from practice. We know the discussion about the necessary news – I was only surprised that no one has yet addressed this issue with regard to tourism. But we are also trying to bring about a solution in this regard. I don't want to go back to the whole hotel and gastronomy, but I also want to use it. The changes range from the question of passports, because everyone who knows the cases from practice knows how difficult it is when the parents are separated and then the issue of the issue of official documents is about the passport in this case. That is why I think it is important if we are to solve this question very quickly. The last point that has been with us for a long time now concerns arms. All these points can be subsumed quickly under one: an essential administrative simplification that is exclusively in the interests of our citizens – from the little children to the adults. I can invite you all and ask you: Let us try to decide on a broad basis together! In my opinion, people are happy that we are making these regulations and innovations today.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e15213	Next, Mr Pilz, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e15234	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! That's one of those rare moments where you can really make it short: These are many small, reasonable changes that we naturally agree with. One is important, namely the rules on so-called emergency apartments. If a woman uses an emergency apartment, then in the future not the address of the emergency apartment, but the care facility will be publicly and otherwise available. This creates additional protection. That is important, that is reasonable, and that is another reason to agree with the whole. We have also tabled, and I do not want to hold a long debate, in the Committee on the Interior on this item on the agenda, an §-27 request on the police attacks of the last weeks and months. We will not discuss this for good reason. This issue is so important, and the failure of the Minister of the Interior on this issue is so extraordinary that we will have to discuss it here in Parliament on a specific point and on a given occasion with her case in case, detail and responsibility for responsibility. I can guarantee you that this will be the case very soon. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e15266	Next, Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e15287	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The amendments to the law have already been tabled by colleagues before me, but there is not much to add to that. My colleague, Mr Schenk, will still address the amendment to the arms law. It is also important that changes in the passport law of child withdrawal suggest a bar. That too is positive. But I cannot save Mr Pilz the following: Mr Pilz, I wanted to talk about it in the morning, but the speaking time did not reach. Now I have a little more time. I'm going to tell you a few things about your alleged police attacks. Here is done in a Hatz that you operate in the media, with the help of left-hand media. That's where I address a certain newspaper that you know very well, which then goes off to the police with fact-finding film reports. That's fact. I have the first report on this case. With regard to this alleged breach on New Year's Eve: If you've seen the first film in the ORF, which is now no longer available on the Internet, but only in a shortened form, because of course it looks a little different – but you have to assume that, in the first report, the situation was such that this lady first harassed these executive officials, then went away, got back in the drunken state, and beat a police officer to the chest. [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Six men can't band a woman?! You have to explain that to me!]] These are the facts. [[Abg. Glavischig-Piesczek: Six men against a woman?! But you have to explain that to me!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Maurer.]] This is a violent attack according to § 270 criminal code, ladies and gentlemen. And then a police mission is justified if you're still on the alert. - So much for it. For the alleged breach in the Mariahilfer Straße. Ladies and gentlemen, you are talking quite openly and loosely about some pieced together situation. But once you look at it: I'm a police officer, I've had to experience a lot of actions by drunk people, people who are drug addicts, how they can get involved. If you have a 50-kilometer woman, with three standing male images – like I do with a three-digit kilo-number – trying to band this woman when it is filmed, if you know how these people behave, how it is done, then it is understandable. And if you're going here and still insisting on the behavior of these police officers that they'd exceeded their powers, that's shameless. That's to be rejected. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team, representatives of the FPÖ and the Abg. Wheeler.]] My cousin has lived in Vienna for a long time. He spoke to me a few days ago and said he didn't understand that the police are still getting human resources if you're dealing with the executive from politics. He said he was wondering that the young people were still doing this. I would like to express my thanks to all young police officers and police officers, but also to the active police officers, that they are really doing these “hocks” under such adverse conditions. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team, as well as with representatives of the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to go further. I can quote two newspaper articles from the last few days. They're both from German newspapers. You must have heard these violent attacks of the left. In an article, a police officer reports: “You hold your head for this state and its citizens”. And what's the thank you? – Burning police guards, burning police cars, police guards that burn in such a way that the officials no longer get out, there is a risk of life. These are your left-wing chaots, your colleagues, Mr Pilz. You have to say that clearly, too. I have another article here: “From ankles to the buttocks everything was burned.” In a German newspaper, a police officer, 51 years old, describes how he was hit by a bullet bomb, has been catapulted ten meters, was severely injured, was in the state of illness for several months, except for fighting, has mental problems, and now had to be put into the interior. These are your colleagues, Mr Pilz, those are the people who defend you in this way. I would now like to return to my motion for a resolution, which I announced in the morning. Of course, we need more executive staff, Mrs Minister, that's not a secret, I already mentioned that in the morning. Considering that € 192 million in 2014 has only been spent on advertising advertising for the Federal Government, since mid-2012 € 495 million, considering what could be done in the security field, then you should put it around, then the Federal Government would have enough money to ensure the security it needs for the population. That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mrs Bundesminister, I think it would be easy to make use of money that you are wasting pointlessly for advertisements. You could do something good to the people and make them more secure. I would also like to remind you that I have a request for an executive service law in Parliament, for a separate executive service law, which gives the executive the powers and the financial possibilities that their staff with the salary they receive for this job, which they do and for which they must hold their heads, as we have heard here, will also be paid decently. That would be the minimum we could all do here for the police and for our security. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e15375	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e15440	Next, Mrs. Mag. Mikl's head of business. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e15461	Madam President. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear ladies and gentlemen at the visitor gallery! If today the Security Management Adjustment Act is passed in Parliament, especially by all the parliamentary parties represented here, this is a very good signal. Then three laws are at the heart of this issue: the Reporting Act, the Pass Law and the Weapons Act. I shall be able to sum up the innovations in the various legislative instruments in a short time. I'm allowed to start with the registration law. What are we going to do about this? – It has already been said today that those victims of violence who have been victims of violence and who have taken advantage of an emergency home had to report to the emergency apartment address so far. In the future, it should not be necessary to specify the address of the emergency apartment, but only to indicate the address of the institution or institution which the woman is caring for. This is a very clear measure by which we want to increase the protection of the victim. On the other hand: What do we change in the passport? – If there is a judicial order that provides for a child to accept the travel document, the passport authority will be informed immediately in the future. Why? This is not a non-calculation approach. the parent can state that the passport has been lost, one needs a new passport, then a new passport is issued, and in any case the child may be taken out of the country by the unauthorised parent, or the child will leave together with the child. This is a very important measure to protect the child. Thirdly, Novelties in the Weapons Act. – Yes, these innovations help to obtain a gun register certificate with the citizen card in the sense of civil kindness. – These are innovations and adaptations in the sense of administrative simplification and more civil service. I would like to thank you very much, also for the active cooperation of all the Members and for the consensus that there is on deciding on this today. However, allow me to make a point specifically for Mr Hagen, who repeatedly demands new, additional police officers, no matter what plenary or the committee meeting. I say it again specifically for you, Mr Deputies: You know that we have agreed that there will be more for the police in this legislative period. I've already confirmed this to you, and I can only tell you: That's as sure that after the winter of spring comes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e15509	The next item is the speech by Mr Gahr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e15531	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! High house! With this Security Management Adjustment Act, three areas – reporting, passport and arms – are re-regulated by law. The Federal Minister Mikl- Leitner has already stressed: It is about taking account of current requirements and implementing administrative simplifications. I believe it is important that we meet the citizens there. I think I can take a brief look at a relatively specific change in this law. The central arms register is also about the weapons of so-called traditional associations. As a Tyrolean, there was a clear mandate to provide relief or practical handling for the 235 shooters with over 11,600 rifles and a total of almost 15,000 club members. In the future, it will be possible to register online with a citizen card and a mobile signature free of charge and unbureaucratic. But it is also important, I believe, that the associations are not overly financially burdened, but that they allow the so-called Weapons Champions to carry out the registrations, and if there is a change with the Weapons Masters, the corresponding registrations can, of course, be carried out by them. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schimanek.]] So, overall, it is also important that, for example, if registration is carried out inadvertently late, there is no punishment for it. I would like to thank you very much – for two years we have been discussing internally, especially with the representatives of the Tyrolean Sagittarius – that the Federal Ministers have really involved us in this matter. The two security spokesmen Werner Amon and Otto Pendlhaben also support us significantly. It is about making the laws as practical as possible for citizens – especially for the protection industry. Final I would like to thank our shooter-commander Fritz Tieftenthaler and gun-master Hans Eller, who have been pilgrimd to Vienna several times and brought himself in. Overall, people are being met again, and I believe that the practice will show that such changes in the law are also beneficial on the ground. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e15582	Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e15603	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) This security management adaptation law is a consensus matter. I would like to take a very brief look at the important change in the reporting system. In the future, people affected by violence – women are very often affected – will be given even better protection if they no longer need to register in the emergency room, but in the care facility running this emergency home. I think that this is a very important measure, especially when the figures show how many people, how many women and children in Austria are affected by violence. I've raised this today: In 2013, 8 306 bans were imposed in Austria. There were 16,624 victims of family violence who were cared for by violence centres or intervention agencies. About 87.2% of families and 91.2% of the population were below the poverty line, including 87.20% of those under age 18 and 91.2% of those age 65 or over. These are numbers, I think they speak for themselves. There were 2,139 applications for interim orders, which were also submitted with the support of violent centres and intervention agencies, and 2 955 people were supported in the process support. I think this is also evidenced by the fact that this measure, which we are going to adopt today, is a very important one, which is included in a variety of other measures implemented by the Minister of the Interior, but also by the Minister for Women. I would remind you, for example, of the National Action Plan against Violence against Women, which has really been developed together with an interministerial working group, which aims to coordinate the many measures in Austria so that victims can be protected even better. This is a very important measure. Another example is the "violence of the FREI" campaign, which has been designed together with the women's houses, the Federal Youth Organization and the intervention agencies from Vienna. This campaign should focus better on the issue of violence and make it even more known so that women and children can contact aid organisations even faster. I also recall the many actions in the ‘16 days against violence’, in which in many cities and in many places of Austria, attention has been paid to family violence and where it is always pointed out that – and therefore I am glad that all this request will be accepted today – violence in the family is never private, that it concerns all of us – society – and that one day or another women should have the courage to get out of violence, and that women must always be told, above all, that the blame is always with the perpetrator, so that they do not seek the fault of themselves. [[Complementary of the Abg. Kucharovich.]] I would like to thank all those who will vote in favour of this request today. I am sure that with this change in reporting we will set another important building block for the protection of victims of violence. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e15664	The next item is Mrs Schenk's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e15685	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The amendment of the Waffengesetz, which we decide today, finally includes the amnesty that we also demand for weapons owners, which is not in time with the deadline 30. ==References== That will be finally today and thank God. In her speech, Mrs Minister briefly addressed the points that have been changed and are being decided today. In doing so, it may have forgotten deliberately or inadvertently – I do not know – to mention that this change of law in the Waffengesetz regarding the registration obligation goes back to an initiative of the Stronach and the IWÖ, the Association of Interests in Liberal Weapons Law in Austria. We started a petition on this issue, even after the chaos that took place on 30 June. June 2014 took place when the servers were crashed at the Ministry of the Interior and no registration was possible and a speaker of your home, Mrs. Minister, at the time said that the owners of arms had had at least two years to make the reports, which is why it is not necessary to adopt a new law because of a short-term power failure. Today we are so grateful to God that we can fix this here in the House and decide on the amnesty here, an amnesty for the unspoiled citizens who were actually – as your speaker said – criminalized overnight just because they could not register in time because on the one hand the information of your house was not sufficient and on the other hand the technical conditions were simply not present and the server was crashed. Another point I would like to address, which also concerns the arms sector and the arms law: Unfortunately, I think the opportunity to reform the arms law in general was denied, so to simplify and improve it, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Because there's still a lot in the arse. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I would also like to address the issue of arms passports, because, as we already know, we have discussed it many times enough, even for executive officials out of service, it is almost impossible to get a gun pass. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] The second point of my petition, which I have already mentioned, is very successful and already has more than 6,000 supporters – it runs until 14. April and is to be supported on the Parliament's homepage – it deals with easier access to the passport of arms, so that everyone who is unspoiled has the right to get a passport of arms. Self-defense must become a reason for need and must establish a legal claim for a passport of arms, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] This is due to the increasing number of attacks, the increasing crime and also the insufficiently satisfied security needs of Austria. In and out of Austria. I have already mentioned this result of a study that we have commissioned: 67 percent of respondents do not see their security needs satisfied by politics. These are figures, ladies and gentlemen, which should also give us thought and which should not be disregarded here, but should have been a change which should have gone much further. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it must be concluded that more and more obligations are being imposed on citizens on the one hand – we have heard again in today's debate that more and more taxes are on citizens – and on the other hand they are increasingly granted fewer and less rights! The right to self-defense is taken from them. An undisputed citizen must have the right to self-defense and also the right to obtain a passport of arms. And that is why the provisions on discretion from Sections 21 and 22 must be deleted so that this is stopped and that every citizen can defend himself and have the right to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e15761	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I do not recognise the rapporteur's wish for a final word. This means that we can vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 524 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to agree to this draft law at third reading too, for a sign. – That is also unanimity. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Hagen, colleagues, on 'Security offensive for Austria: More personnel for Austrian security”. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[17:02:23]] 7. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government Template (483 e.g._Other Organiser Agreements between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of Ukraine on cooperation in the fight against crime (525 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e15829	We're now on the 7th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Pilz is the first to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e15856	Ladies and gentlemen! I'll do it again. In contrast to the last matter, we will not agree this time, for three very short reasons. For the first time, it is also about the exchange of data on criminal police relevance, and it is not quite clear why the Ministry of Justice and the public prosecutors do not appear in this Convention or in its execution. Secondly, The legal and legal conditions for data transmission are not precise enough and not precise enough in this agreement. Therefore, thirdly, there are very well-founded and strong concerns on the part of our lawyers that the principle of legality has been done enough, that is, the necessary determination of the law has been given. And if you have such concerns and, fourthly, I add that personally, you know the state of the law enforcement authorities and also the police in Kiev and know what can happen to data there – look at only the top of the prosecutor's office in Kiev, there may really be the horror; I looked at it in Kiev about a year ago, and the situation has worsened rather – then you have to be particularly sensitive in such agreements, where it is about data from Austrian citizens. This is not sufficiently guaranteed in this case, and we will not, of course, accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e15898	The next item is the speech by Mr Principality. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e15920	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In due time: Efforts to conclude a police cooperation agreement with Ukraine have been ongoing for a number of years. Now it's finally that far. The aim of the agreement is to improve police cooperation between Austrian and Ukrainian security authorities in the fight against, for example, organised crime, terrorism, trafficking in human beings, drug trafficking and arms trafficking or child pornography, and there are a number of points to be added. I believe that it is generally very positive that requests for assistance may be made in future for cooperation, in particular through exchange of information and experience, as well as mutual support for the audit of persons. And – it has been addressed by the previous speaker of data protection – it is also accordingly ensured that, in the case of personal data, the data protection regulations offer the appropriate protection. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! It is to thank you and your team that a corresponding agreement has been negotiated and is to be decided today. We are happy to agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e15950	The next item is Mr Wenninger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e15971	Mr President. High house! With the present police cooperation agreement between Austria and Ukraine, we address exactly the subject matter that Mr Pilz has also tried to formulate. The legal and democratic structures in current Ukraine are sure. not comparable to the standard we are used to in Austria and the European Union. But that is why I think it is necessary to bring in Austrian expertise in the sense of state-building, as did Mr Windbüchler-Souschill and Mr Lopatka, who have recently been together with me at a conference on foreign and security policy in Riga. That there can also be initial problems, that the glass can always be seen as half empty, as Mr Pilz has just done, is also a fact. I remember that this should go through the stage unanimously today, but I hope that it will happen by a large majority. This is mainly because it is not only about helping Ukraine on its way to a solid democracy, but also about protecting Austrians from organised crime, from terrorism, tow, trafficking in human beings, economic crime, drug trafficking and arms trafficking. Without now wanting to have a foreign policy debate: I was like my colleague Pilz in Ukraine in recent years. I have experienced the Causa Timoshenko, which was seen in Ukraine completely different from in Western Europe. I was an election observer at the Janukovich election, which was seen by all the institutions as a democratic one. We have all experienced the ringing of Europe, Russia, the United States, NATO for political domination in Ukraine. In this situation, the police cooperation agreement between Austria and Ukraine is an offer to a country whose people are in a phase in which they are trying to orient themselves, with the desire to build their own country peacefully and under difficult social and economic conditions. We should offer our expertise and support in all these areas. This police agreement is a first concrete step. I believe that there are many other ways – including in the area of administration et cetera – to help people in Ukraine build up state. In this respect, the SPÖ shall support this Agreement.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e16011	Next, Mr Heinzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e16032	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Security is an important issue for all Austrians, which always confirms our research. In particular, the question of security in the personal environment – i.e. subjects such as pocket theft, burglary and so on – is of particular importance to the citizens of Austria. But, of course, the fight against terrorism and organised crime is also considered very important. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, in a globalised and networked world, it would be truly naïve to assume that Austria can fight international threats such as terrorism and highly networked criminal gangs alone. Without cooperation with foreign security authorities, our security authorities in the country would be on one eye in the truest sense of the word, I would say. It is therefore all the more gratifying that there will now also be an agreement with Ukraine on police cooperation. The aim of this Agreement is to: the development of cooperation, particularly in the areas of organised crime, terrorism, trafficking in human beings, drugs and weapons, as well as child pornography. Especially in the area of trafficking in human beings, the increased cooperation between the Austrian and Ukrainian authorities is very much to be welcomed and especially necessary. We know that hundreds of women from Eastern and South-East Europe are still being lured into Western Europe every year with false promises for a job, for example as a waitress or child girl, in order to end up as work or sex slaves. The profits of this inhuman system then remove internationally well-connected criminal gangs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is hoped that the new, more intensive cooperation between the police authorities will help to eliminate the criminal networks behind it. It is also important for me to point out that this agreement includes comprehensive data protection schemes which ensure the proper handling of personal data. Ladies and gentlemen, overall this agreement with Ukraine in the field of crime control is very welcome. I hope that this will give rise to important impetus to the fight against organised crime, which will benefit both countries, i.e. Austria and Ukraine. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e16086	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall vote on the request of the Committee on Internal Affairs, the conclusion of the State Treaty in 483 of the Supplements in accordance with Article 50. 1 Z 1 Federal Constitutional Act to grant approval. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[17:13:16]] 8. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the proposal from Mr Otto Pendl, Mr Werner Amon, Mr MBA, Mr Peter Pilz, Mr Christoph Hagen, Mr Mag. Nikolaus Alm, Mag. Harald Stefan, colleagues in the field of illegal surveillance through foreign intelligence (526 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e16145	We're on the 8th. Agenda item. Mr Amon is the first to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e16169	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I think you can keep this relatively short. This is an all-party resolution request, in which the Austrian Federal Government is urged to make every effort to ensure that foreign services – whether NSA or GCHQ or other services – do not use Austrian communication data in an illegal manner, whatever. In this motion for a resolution, the Federal Government is asked to use all the diplomatic and legal means available to prevent such actions and to ensure that everything in the context against Austria's criminal law is in breach of, is also subject to penalties and, third and last, all technical measures are also taken to prevent and prevent such transactions. In this context, we have mentioned once again – we have mentioned it briefly today – that we are more or less in the finale of preparing a new state protection law, in which of course also issues such as espionage defence, such as the defence of economic espionage, play an important role. In the end, it is also in the general economic interest that there is no such outflows. In this sense, it is likely that there will be broad approval of this request. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e16208	Next word: Mr Plessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e16230	Mr President. Estimated Minister of the Interior! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear colleagues! Since June 2013, we have been very intensive in the subject of illegal surveillance by foreign intelligence services. We owe it to a person who has been very committed, has published secret documents and has shown how the international espionage activity of NSA works with its allies. It is truly remarkable what processes are taking place here, which processes are used to obtain information. We have expressed with the motion for a resolution – the importance of the request is also documented by the fact that it is a six-party request – that all parties of Parliament are very clearly voting against this procedure. We do not want the communication secret to be threatened, communication data stored, intercepted or monitored. We also want the Federal Government to put further emphasis on: Emphasis is placed on exploiting diplomatic and legal means to continue to act here, to exploit Austrian criminal law in order to perhaps also act against persons, and to implement technical and regulatory measures to combat them – and this is particularly important in order to strengthen Europe's technological independence at European level. The discoverer, the discoverer, the Whistleblower Edward Joseph Snowden was born in 1983. He studied computer science, worked at the US Army, as an IT security technician at the CIA and at consulting companies on behalf of the US intelligence service NSA and has gained access to highly secret data from US surveillance programs, but also from British surveillance programmes. ==References====External links== In June, he announced to the public that he was the informant, a very turbulent journey behind him, and a few days later a arrest warrant was issued by the FBI. I would therefore like to quote his motivation here and quote from the interview with Greenwald: “I do not want to live in a world in which everything I do and say is recorded. I am not willing to support such conditions, nor do I want to live under such conditions." I think that says a lot. There is also a reference to Austria from Snowden – I would like to mention this briefly: ==References== In July 2013 in Vienna, a stopover of the Bolivian Presi- It was assumed that Snowden was on his plane. Overflight permits from France, Spain, Portugal and Italy have been withdrawn. Some countries have subsequently disputed this, such as Spain and France. The French Ministry of Foreign Affairs later interpreted the withdrawal of the overflight permit as at least ‘administrative miscarriage’. Finally, I would like to mention that the monitoring possibilities have also led to a real break of taboos. After the 9/11 incident, many communication monitoring measures were set on the basis of anti-terrorism rules, but the example of London in 2009, where politicians from other nations have been systematically monitored, where e-mails, computers and so on have also been pioneered, also beyond the G 20 summit, shows what measures have been taken: not to counter terrorism, but also to ensure benefits for economic and political reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e16281	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Stefan zu Wort. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e16302	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, we are not all so naïve as not to know that intelligence services are setting up activities and trying to get to information. However, the revelations of Snowden were already a really interesting experience, because this dimension, I believe, was not known to most people in Europe. Of course, it is also true that we must fight against all the intelligence activities that are directed against us, no matter where they come from, but those of the US already have a certain quality, and that is why we must deal with it in particular. First of all, we have a special friendship with the USA. That means we're being listen to and monitored by friends. And second, the USA is the supplier of most hardware and software, and, as we have now more and more come along, the monitoring and espionage measures are already installed in this hardware and software. And that is exactly the delicate point why it is particularly interesting to deal with it. China, for example, checks all hardware products from abroad to see if they are infected in any form. They are making a huge effort in China, which we cannot afford in Austria in this form, which is already clear. But this would be an initiative that we really need to take at European level, where we should say: If something is delivered and we have a suspicion – and we now have it with all such products – then we must first look at it carefully and then at all events prevent this product from coming into trade, especially we must not integrate it into ministries and elsewhere! As already mentioned, the quality of monitoring is really immense. UPC and Chello.at are sucked off via fiber optic cables. One to one everything that runs there is sucked off via the software with which the e-mail traffic itself is to be secured, and, and, and. These are so incredible measures that will be put in place, up to the scurrencies that the German Chancellor is being heard or the EU Commission, i.e. the friends. You just have to say: It's so huge that you can't look away from it. That is why I am glad that there is this joint proposal. He is, of course, a matter of course as to the wording, but it was nevertheless necessary that we wake up here once and defend ourselves. It is important that, in addition to monitoring the products imported into Europe or then finally imported into Austria, we finally conclude that we need our own Internet infrastructure, because it takes place almost exclusively in the USA and therefore there is the possibility to absorb it all and, obviously, the government directly influences the companies there and says: Yes, be careful, you'll get a state order, but then you'll have to pre-install us! That's definitely how it is. We must therefore pay particular attention to it. You can strengthen your own search programs and similar ones, some of them already exist. But we also need to raise awareness of this, and we must take at least everything possible in Austria or Europe in this area. That is why I can only say: It's good that there's this request. It's at least a first wake-up. But it must remain that we have the courage to actually offer the forehead here.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e16357	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr Pilz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e16378	Ladies and gentlemen! That's what we did quite well: There is no single Parliament, not only in the European Union, which has unanimously taken such a clear decision. That will also have consequences. This already has consequences in the discussion in Berlin and in other parliaments. We have the opportunity to convince others in the European Union that it is worth standing up closed and saying: We don't want this, and we'll do everything we can to stop it! Mrs. Federal Minister! What we need to talk about now is not the Austrian National Council's willingness to do something against the spicage attacks on the data of our citizens, but is now about the question: What's the Ministry of Justice doing? What's the Ministry of the Interior doing? What are you doing? And we'll have to talk about a lot. We know where the Americans are spying. We know where the Americans are carrying out criminal actions on the espionage of data, not just in Vienna. We know Special Collection Service next to UNO-City and on the roof of the American Embassy in Boltzmanngasse. We know the Tier 2 programme, with which the American President has personally arranged to include the OSCE headquarters in one of the most important espionage programmes in Vienna. We know the documents that Chello.at, the UPC is being attacked. We already have quite specific ideas as to how the OSCE has been attacked. And we know the documents with which the then Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs of the United States ordered Hillary Clinton, how in Vienna the personal data of all UN employees are to be pioneered. You, Mrs. Federal Minister, know the spy team personally, the names at the American Embassy. You know the "Country Teams". They know the State Reporting Officers. They know the non-state members, who are mostly in the management of American companies and who are developing illegal activities for the US in the middle of Vienna. It's known. Nevertheless, there is surprisingly little investigation results. Mrs. Federal Minister! I don't want to blame anyone – we're going to look at everything carefully, not pre-condemnifications – but I'm saying one thing we should think about together: If we are already making a BAT law – and I am very much in favour of it – we should also note that Austrian constitutional protection, which is useful not only with American, but also with German, British and French intelligence services, such as in the fight against terrorism, cannot at the same time combat CIA and NSA in their illegal activities. It doesn't work. A spy defense, a protection against espionage, a protection of our data in Austria from NSA, GCHQ, but also others cannot be guaranteed optimal by a cooperating constitutional protection. That's why we need a separation of functions. That is why I am in favour of participating in the BAT Act and also of negotiating my own office for espionage defence within the framework of the Federal Ministry of the Interior. This is one of the next important reform steps we have ahead of us in Austria, so that our espionage defence works and we have something to do not only at the level of the National Council, but also at the Ministry of Interior from NSA, CIA, GCHQ, but also the Russian, Iranian and Chinese services – thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e16420	The next item is the speech by Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e16442	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Yes, one would not believe it, but there is an initiative by my colleague Pilz, which I even have to praise, and there he has certainly made the right point. This all-party application is also supported by the Stronach team. That's a legitimate claim. We all know the media reports, how Austria is being spyed out by America, by the CIA, by the NSA and what I know. This has his authority and therefore my praise. That was a good initiative, Mr Pilz. So there's also a praise and not just a blame. Ladies and gentlemen, however, I was disappointed by Mr Plessl of the SPÖ. Mr Plessl is a trained police officer, but he is currently fully exempt from his duties as mayor and national councillor. So I'm the only active police officer in this House. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pendl.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Now I have to say: If Mr Plessl went to the services a little bit, he would know what a personal distress the executive has. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Plessl.]] That's why I'm very disappointed with you, because I can't say 181 inside here may not know as well as we both do. I mean, you should go to your colleagues and ask there how the personnel situation really looks and where the real problems lie. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Plessl.]] That is why my request actually has a right, because I certainly also have the support of the executive officers outside on the street and in the police inspections, and therefore I am very disappointed by you that you did not agree to this request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e16494	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Alm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e16518	Thank you, Mr President. – I mentioned it today in my last speech, monitoring is the Slippery Slope to Totalitarianism, the slender slope on which we could slip, and it is amazing how much we have arranged ourselves in society with the supervision. Let me give you an example. Imagine sitting in a restaurant and you notice that people in this room are recording each of your movements – which record when you make a bite, pour yourself a glass when you talk to someone, leave the table and come back. This behavior would never tolerate anyone of us, but data about our behavior will be collected online, and a digital identity will be created about us, which contains much more information than we know about ourselves and we can store in our memory. This example is not by me, but by Friedrich Moser, an Austrian director who is just making a film entitled “A Good American”. “A Good American” tells the story of the Whistleblower Bill Inneny, the former World Technical Director of the NSA, and it is exactly the NSA that builds a data center in Utah, which is large in 17 football fields and can store a yottabyte in information. Do you know what a yottabyte is? [[Abg. Glavischig-Piesczek: No, no idea!]] All right, then I want to explain. Thank you for the question. A yottabyte is as much information as can be stored on a trillion book pages. So much is needed to record the data from the surveillance of all people. This results in about 100 million book pages per person. And it's also the same NSA that contracts with intelligence services worldwide. That is why this joint motion for a resolution is so important. Prevention and cooperation are the key points for combating terrorism. The cooperation of intelligence services is an essential part of the defence of terrorist threats both at European level and internationally. However, cooperation must not include the inadmissible transmission of personal data, but should be limited to specific cases. The cooperation of the authorities is based on two pillars. These are contracts on the one hand, and on the other hand it is trust. Contracts with foreign intelligence services are part of state execution and therefore also parliamentary control. Subcommittees are available for the treatment of sensitive items of execution and for reasons of secrecy. And as you know, this secrecy also works. These committees shall examine the Treaties. To date, however, the government may not have presented all the Treaties to Parliament, and I call on the government and also the Minister for Foreign Affairs to bring these Treaties to parliamentary control as soon as possible. The second point is trust. Cooperation between the intelligence services and the exchange of data is a very sensitive area and must take place between equal partners. However, the espionage activity of the NSA and the British intelligence service GCHQ shows a completely different picture. How else is it to explain that malware is targeted against governments and authorities? Also against Austria! This shows us one thing: We are not seen as an equal partner in this fight against terrorism! The monitored mobile phone by the already mentioned German Chancellor Angela Merkel is probably the top of the iceberg. It is likely that this will not only be used for the defence of terrors, but also for economic espionage and the espionage of European politicians. The government has to ensure that the fundamental rights of citizens do not fall victim to mass surveillance of foreign intelligence services and intelligence services. We need to direct the awareness where the real dangers can arise. And the danger does not stem from the general population suspected and supervised. Monitoring is a method of totalitarian systems, and it is democracy that is at risk.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e16557	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Hammer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e16579	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Protection of fundamental rights and communication secrecy is an essential and important part of a free society. One should think that this is actually a matter of course, it is – as one has already heard from the previous speakers – but unfortunately not. However, it is unbearable – and this has already been noted – that foreign intelligence services, especially NSAs and partner services, intercept, store and monitor the communication data of Austrian and European citizens without legal basis. And I think it is especially important for these reasons to send this signal – it has also been mentioned that we are a pioneer in Europe with this six-party resolution proposal – and that the Federal Government should take decisive action against it. I do not want to list the reasons and practices used here, because they are disturbing and, in fact, partly inconceivable. It is extremely difficult, however, to note these practices first and, secondly, to combat them efficiently. It must be clear, however, that we are fighting this with all the possibilities that are technically possible under criminal law, and we are defending such attacks on the fundamental rights of the Austrians. I believe that there should be consistent action, and this decision is an important first step in this direction.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e16609	The last speaker to speak on this item on the agenda is Mr Magistrate. Darabos. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e16630	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! As my previous speaker, Mr Amon, said at the beginning of this debate, it was almost all said in advance. However, it is an important matter, and I would like to stress once again that in all the ideological and political differences in this House it is remarkable that a unanimous decision is taken here. The processes that we all know concerning the NSA, but also other intelligence services, especially the British intelligence service, have not only triggered a cry in Europe, they are also frightening. I would like to point out – and this has already been said several times today – that Austria is a pioneer here, and here I am at Peter Pilz as far as the defense against these practices is concerned. To what extent we can actually defend ourselves, the future will show. However, I would also like to say – and this is a new aspect – that, of course, a cooperation between our intelligence services, which we have three in number, is desirable with foreign intelligence services, but only then – and this is exemplary in Austria – if there is complete transparency and if the Austrian Parliament, and that is what we are, is also involved. And I can say from my previous activity that this is actually the case in Austria. It is true, however, that we have now reached a point where we cannot stop. The data-absorbing machine has not been stopped. I am also very disappointed that the U.S. Senate voted against it when it came to putting an end to these activities. In other words, we have a lot of work in front of us together with the Minister for the Interior. It is – and I am with Mr Alm – also about data protection as a whole. And that the Austrian Parliament is working together here is a positive sign and a good start in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e16673	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We come to the vote on the resolution on illegal surveillance by foreign intelligence, annexed to the Committee Report 526 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 68.) [[17:39:36]] 9. Point Report of the Family Committee on the Government Template (479, e.g._Other Organiser The Federal Act amending the Family Compensation Act 1967 (519 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e16715	We're on the 9th. Agenda item. First of all, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Straster. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e16739	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The decisions of the Federal Government in recent weeks show that the spirit of reform has moved into the country, there is a fresh wind, households are relieved, value added and the labour market are being given new impetus; the Austrian families will feel this. This creates confidence among people. This creates the feeling that the state is acting at a level with the citizens. This ultimately creates the future and above all the faith in a secure future, an attitude and atmosphere that I miss in our society with many. In doing so, our children, and above all, our newborn citizens of the earth, need people who believe in the future, and not people who every day agree that Austria would be of no value. But we feel in agreement with the measures of the Federal Government, the optimists become more. I say to you with full conviction: Our children have a right to people who meet them with respect and confidence. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Today's decision to grant family aid is seamlessly reflected in the current strategies of the Federal Government, which are close to the administration of citizens. and make it slimmer. As of May 2015, the existing data will be automatically used for the payment of the family aid. As a rule, an application will no longer be necessary, the families will of course be informed and missing data will be collected. It is important to make management more efficient. After the introduction of this new system, there will be rapid savings. You can be sure we do our homework. Austria will also become more family-friendly, because around 80 000 families will benefit from this innovation because no more applications need to be filled out, because uncertainties are avoided and because the public hand acts as a reliable partner of our families. With this initiative, family minister Sophie Karmasin and finance minister Hans Jörg Schelling are taking another big step towards more red tape, towards more family kindness. – A project that will have an example in many other areas and topics in our country, a project that makes life easier, a project that gives confidence, and a project that makes the future. And a warm thank you at this point.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e16791	The next speech is from Mrs Lueger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e16812	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today, we are talking about the family compensation law and are concerned that we are making a decision today that families no longer have to make an extra request to pay the family allowance. This is in the sense of the families, in principle a very good thing in the sense of the parents, because they have enough ways to do on the occasion of birth. The question I ask about the implementation is, when we come to the organisational part, whether this will really work as smoothly as we expect from this law. In the past, either the father or mother was sitting in front of the PC and completed the application form for family allowance with all the necessary data. There was also the account number. Now it should be the case that the data from the Ministry of Finance about this ZPR, which we decided last year in autumn – that is this central register with which the booths are now working – will be collected and then automatically paid out. However, the fact that there is little uncertainty is evident to me because the explanations of this law state that there is no legal right to this payment of the family allowance. If it were so self-evident and if it worked quite simply, then it would be possible to have this legal claim as well. My fear is that now a job, located either in the Ministry of Finance or somewhere else, needs parents to understand when data is missing. That is to say, it is also delaying the payment of the family allowance, with which the parents are already expecting fixation. I hope that all of this will not happen, and I think that Mrs Minister will have taken care that this will work in the same way. On the one hand, a very good, positive administrative simplification in the sense of the population, on the other hand, I would like to say that we are in practice looking at how It really works. Nevertheless, we will also agree to this law.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e16854	Next speaker: Mrs Mühlberghuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e16876	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Following the introduction of the monthly payment of the family aid, the applicationless grant of the family aid will now come. This amendment to the Family Allowance Act is a fundamentally positive matter, which constitutes a simplification in relation to the reference of family aid. ==References====External links== May 2015 filling out the application form, and thus the paperwork will be lost in the future. For us, the fact that the rightful stay in Austria will continue to be checked – which, according to the Federal Minister, will be checked and checked in each individual case. According to the explanations, families will save 30 minutes of time per child born in the future. No doubt this amendment is a discharge. It is a relief, but not a distraction from the real problems that families in Austria are facing. Families are not sufficiently supported in many ways. There is, for example, no annual adjustment of family allowances, no adjustment of child allowances to inflation rates, high burden on self-maintenance in children's hospitals. There is no willingness to remove the pension limit for the benefit allowance, no four full years of child training for each child for pension insurance and no significant relief for families in the course of the tax reform. Mrs Bundesminister, you are selling the unsolicited grant of family aid as a great relief. But, ladies and gentlemen, let us leave the church in the village: This novel is a 30-minute relief for families, but the real material, financial, pension problems are not solved in the case of weitem.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e16913	The next word comes from Mrs Mag. Musiol. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e16934	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yeah, I'm happy if you can praise the government from time to time. It may not be the huge step – I am right in giving previous speakers – but it is still a relief for families that they do not have to take bureaucratic steps anymore, but that in some way an automaticism takes place and that, when a child is born, the family allowance is transferred relatively easily. All those who have had to apply for family allowance or have had to prove to older children that they have not completed the training yet, know that this is not a major obstacle, but nevertheless somehow a small tiredness in everyday life, where it is not bad if you can save yourself. Against this background, I congratulate you, just as I have done in committee. Of course, I could now also produce and say what we have called for in recent years and what has not yet been achieved, but I am pleased that something has been achieved. In the same way, we have been discussing the monthly payment of the family allowance for years, and you have also enforced it. Against this background, it is very gratifying to see very constructive and very practical government work happening here. Of course, there are many problems, and we will have to deal with them in the next debates on family policy. But, Mr Strasser, one thing I am unfortunately not going around: If you say that Austria will become more family-friendly, then the question is to what extent you think this “family-friendly” is, because, I have said, it is, of course, a small step – for me, a family-friendly Austria looks quite different. A family-friendly Austria supports all families, regardless of whether they are poor or rich, whether they have a lot of income or have little income, whether they are of a parent or whether they are patchwork families, whether a child lives in this family, or a lot of children live in that family, whether the family was born over generations in Austria, or whether it is the first generation to take foot after fleeing or after leaving their home country in Austria, and above all – and this is deliberately in your direction – whether it is a family in which there is a father and a mother, or a family in which there is a father and a father, or whether it is a family in which there is a mother and a mother. [[towards ÖVP]] We still have a lot of steps to take to really earn the “family-friendly ” predicate in the sense that I mean it and how the Greens feel.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e16983	Next speaker: Mr Steinbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e17004	Mr President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear spectators on the stands and on the televisions! [[The speaker places a toner spar, on which a small hammer is attached, on the speaker's desk.]] I would of course have liked to give this pig to our family minister, but this is a special one that was bought extra for the Minister of Finance, because in the course of a newspaper interview on Sunday he said that with a first grandson to whom I would like to congratulate him, the problems are quite different. I believe that this would be necessary to implement today's granddaughter-suitable policy especially in family policy – where else?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Hammer: Are you going to the NEOS now? They always say that!]] Mr Strasser, I am very confident because you have spoken of the huge spirit of reform and because now is spring and everything is beginning to grow, that the spirit of reform may finally return to the Federal Government. We will then come to another item on the agenda to see to what extent the families depend on it because the previous governments, who have also heard representatives of your party, have not had this spirit of reform. If we talk about red tape at this point, I will support it – here we are. But this is only a very small, a mini-minor part of a whole human life. We know people are getting older today. We also know what a rage in bureaucracy and control of these newborn children, who are now thanks to God without a form already receive the family allowance, from the study to the professional life to the care allowance. This was debated in detail today during the ongoing tax reform debate. Mrs Minister, if, according to the Social Report, family allowances have increased by 59 percent less than other social funds, then one cannot feel this spirit of reform with God, and I believe it is absolutely essential to do so. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Today, in the course of the debate on tax reform, it became clear to me why some members of the government, no matter what couleur, are so euphoric about what has been done here. On and on, I was horrified at the fact that Mr Wöginger speaks of workers' salaries of €4,000. I come from the Vöcklabruck industrial district, and these workers, I think, we have to find first – or it's a late sequence of too much television. [[Abg. Fekter: Go, you're from the countryside! Admit it!]] Then there was the Dietmar Schönherr with “Wonder for something. ” I think that this could be late, because when we look at the actual salaries that are earned, it becomes clear to us why so many families are in a financial emergency. [[Abg. Loacker: That's where you have to work in the Fekter company, that's where you get it!]] In the Social Report, we see precisely that single and multi-child families – with two, three and more children – are in financial bottlenecks. That is why, I believe, it is particularly important to put in place effective measures in this area that single parents or couples – I believe that father, mother, child is still the ideal image because the children have a right to parents – who want a second or third child, also have the financial framework for it. The fact is that there are many families who simply cannot afford to have a second or a third child. I think it is important here to create a proper framework, because the family is the most important cell in our state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e17079	Mrs Karmasin is next spoken. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e17101	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. Dear Citizens, Families! I believe that the applicationless granting of family aid is an essential step. Since last year we were able to increase family support, change it to a monthly payout, and also extend the claim groups to individual sub-areas, this is now an important step on the way to the most family-friendly country in Europe. We will not solve everything that is still necessary in this way, but we will add an essential building block with the unsolicited granting of family aid. Why, in my view, is the applicationless granting of family aid such a big thing? – Because it is indeed a revolution, in so far as the state for the first time transmits a money to the citizen, the families proactively. For one thing, this is already a matter of attitude and the expression of a family and civil policy. Secondly, it is also a question of making optimum use of the new technologies of information processing with this unsolicited grant of family aid and of the state's modern and unbureaucratic attitude. We see that this is a win-win situation for both sides. On the one hand, families in the year 280 000 hours save – more time for the family, and this is indeed a building block on the way to a family-friendly Austria – on the other hand, it is also about saving not only the families time, effort and nerves, but also the state's administrative burden in the form of copy costs, administration costs and, of course, personnel. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] In fact, a two-digit group is saved here, which can be used much more efficiently and effectively in other areas. This is already a considerable administrative simplification and efficiency improvement. How does that work? – For births from 1st. In May, the family allowance is granted without application and paid out. For families who already have a child, there is already an account number, since the family allowance is transmitted automatically. In cases where there is no account number yet, which is not stored in the system, a letter of information shall be sent to the family, in which case the mother. The desired account number is entered in it and then immediately transferred the money. Of course, there is also the possibility to change the account number at any time if that is the wish. In any case, the missing data will be collected via a letter of information and then the family allowance will be paid directly. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e17146	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister. Next, Mr Magistrate. Hammer to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e17170	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr Steinbichler, on behalf of my colleague, Mr August Wögingern, I should like to point out that: In the debate on tax reform, he mentioned some examples of income stakeholders, of employees with 2 000, 3 000, 4000 euros of income, he did not mention that the average income was €4 000. – I want to correct that. [[Abg. Steinbichler: This sounds very different from above!]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] But apparently you shouldn't have been very careful, because you're so on the NEOS trip today. At the first speech, you hugged a tree and carried it to the speaker’s mouth, and now you’re talking about “One-fit”. You seem to be about to change the x-te party. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Yılmaz.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] A national statement in Austria reads: ‘From the cradle to the Bahre: Forms, forms”, and I believe that with this decision we are taking today, we can take an important step exactly at the beginning of life, at the cradle, that forms are no longer filled out, that nothing needs to be requested and red tape is saved. I believe that this is an important and correct step, a reform step, a simplification in the administration. We have decided here in the House to introduce a central register of staff standing, which is the basis for this implementation. This is an important step for around 80,000 families: They save themselves the application for family aid. I am allowed to hold on again – Mrs Karmasin has also said it in her contribution, but it is forgotten again and again – that, of course, family aid has already been increased, that it should be increased again in the years 2016 and 2018 and that it will also be upgraded accordingly. And it is not to be forgotten – this is what we have discussed expressly and comprehensively this morning – that, in the course of the tax reform, families also benefit significantly, on the one hand, through the relief of tariffs – examples have been mentioned – and on the other hand, by doubling the amount of the child's allowance. Mr Strasser has said that Austria is becoming even more family-friendly, and colleague Musiol has asked in what order. – We want to become the most family-friendly country in the world, and there we are on a good path.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e17229	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Worm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e17250	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The novelle brings less bureaucracy, it will make it easier for women, mothers, fathers, to reach child support or family support – without a claim, this is an important step. This shows a special attitude: The State does not wait until the application comes, but becomes active on its own. In the longer term, if it has taken place, it is a good reform, also an administrative simplification. I congratulate you on that, and I don't want to praise it either. To what Mr Steinbichler told us or gave us for the best, I would like to say a few things. On the question of what the Federal Government is still doing for families: 100 million € will be distributed in the course of the tax reform, which we heard today in the early days. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] [[Abg. Wöginger: Childcare!]] More than €300 million will be invested in the expansion of institutional childcare, which should not be forgotten. In doing so, we help young families to reconcile work and family. [[Abg. Kitzmüller: We help through financial support!]] This is a very, very big concern for our young families, even that is to be said. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Yılmaz.]] It is also about quality development. We stand for an emancipatory image of women and families, and in this sense I am glad that a further step is being taken for family kindness and for women's kindness in this country.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e17323	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Knes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e17345	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Actually, today is a day of joy. We come to a novel, that is, the family compensation law. Mr Steinbichler came down in the morning with a bluff tree and claimed that he needed 100 years to finally fall. In the afternoon he then said that the government misses essential steps for the families, because nothing goes on. [[Abg. Fekter: Yes, because he slept!]] Estimated colleague Steinbichler, you're pretty much on the wood road, as you say and as your own tree proved today. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] However, thanks must also be given to the entire Family Committee, namely, cross-party, constructive cooperation and cooperation, and to the constructive discussions so that this novelle can be decided today. But what does this novelle mean in detail? – On the one hand, the novelle brings red tape for our citizens and on the other hand, Mrs Karmasin has also mentioned this, an administrative saving. Of course, my colleague, Mr Lueger, mentioned it, there are some risks, and we from the SPÖ will look very closely at where there are still some screws to turn, where data protection is available or where there may be no account at all, so that even those families can get this money. Finally, a sentence on the colleague Steinbichler: He also failed to say that the government – and this is even in the social report – is currently spending €9.5 billion annually on families. That's what we're standing for, and that's what the SPÖ is doing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e17389	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We come to the vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 479 of the supplements. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall come to the third reading. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who would like to vote in favour of this draft at the third reading. – That is unanimous in turn. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[18:06:17]] 10. Point Report of the Family Committee on the Stenographic Protocol of the Parliamentary Survey on the "25 years of the UN Convention on Children's Rights" (III-123/520, D.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e17439	We're now on the 10th. Agenda item. First speaker: Mr. Prince. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e17463	Mr President. Estimated Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! “Children are not always right, but they always have rights” – this quote from the children’s video on the occasion of the competition for the day of the children’s rights, in which a Vöcklabrucker children’s group has won, points out what we are discussing today on this item on the agenda. Respect for the child's opinion is set out in the UN Convention on Children's Rights in Articles 12 and 13: All children should be taken seriously and respected as persons and included in decisions according to their age and maturity. The parliamentary survey on the 25th anniversary of the UN Convention on Children's Rights was a great success, in several respects. In a very constructive climate, young and adult experts discussed a wide range of topics together with politicians. It should be much more natural to involve children and young people in the political debate process, especially on issues which concern them, by listening to and interacting with each other. to find good solutions together. This is true in different areas of life and should also apply in politics. I felt the discussion as a very lively and quite instructive one. It gave us Members the opportunity to explore the various areas of life of young people and also to identify possible areas of problem. Especially with regard to the increasing and socially quite problematic political stardom, it is our duty to provide young people with the necessary space and opportunities for participation, but also the necessary information, because in future we need more young people who declare themselves willing to actively participate in the design of political, economic and social life in our country. I am convinced that this interest in youth is quite present; we only have to leave it, or we have to allow it, we have to trust them, and that is what starts with listening. In social cohabitation, obligations always belong to the rights. So if we discuss children's rights, I would also not like to ignore the obligations. There is no doubt that violence, no matter what level and in which conflicts, is not a solution. But in order not to do so at all, it is necessary to know its boundaries and the limits of the other. It is also necessary to know that one's own freedom ceases where one restricts and limits the freedom of the other. I would like to transfer briefly to another sub-area, which was also discussed at the Youth Survey last November. This is integration as well as the awareness of foreigners. Here too, there are obligations in addition to the rights. We in St. Nikola have had many years of experience in the accommodation of asylum seekers and war refugees in our home country and thus also with living together. Of course, children are among the refugees of war who live with us. It is very important that children, before being involved in regular school lessons, be able to take German language to the point where they can also follow the regular education. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Kitzmüller.]] This language teaching can be done, of course, in the school, while visiting as an extraordinary student, but also in the kindergarten. I would like to point out that it is positive if these children play with the children of the local population, to communicate because this common game on the one hand promotes the language and on the other hand also integration. It is important that there is mutual understanding – also on our side – for foreign cultures and habits of life. In reality, a lot is happening on the basis of education and by listening and walking together. The youth survey was in the area of getting together and listening, I think, a very important step, and I am convinced that in the future further will follow.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e17530	Next speaker: Mrs Lueger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e17552	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Last year we celebrated 25 years of the UN Convention on Children's Rights. That was one for us at the same time. Task: Celebrating alone is too little, we also have to do something about it! There was the idea of making a parliamentary survey, not about young people and children, but about young people and children. I would like to thank our Madam President Doris Buresthinken in particular for having so strongly supported the establishment of this survey with the Directorate of Parliament that it was quite possible to do so. For the first time in Parliament, it was not about young people, but about young people. At the same time, I would also like to thank my colleague Kathi Kucharovich, who, together with all other children and youth speakers, supported and carried this survey. We have approached four thematic areas in this parliamentary survey. It was about living and design rooms for children and young people and their family environment. It was about school and participation, about promoting prevention in child and youth health, and about the right to a non-violent life. The panels were so built that on the one hand we approached these topics scientifically with experts, on the other hand with young people. The children's rights network is still to be thanked, whose employees gathered young people from all over Austria in the truest sense of the word, because it was also very important for us not to have young people of organizations in this survey, but to have young people of daily life. They have agreed to come here, they have also been prepared for this survey, and once again a great deal of thanks to the network of children's rights, which has taken this task very seriously. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Of course, it was also a huge success that we have always involved children with disabilities in the sense of what we have done in the four panels. Working with children and young people – as the President said in her opening words at this survey – is the first time in this form. I hope, however, that it will not be the last time – let us take Mr Prinz's word at the time. It does not have to be within the framework of an survey, it could also take place in a different form. Topics that we have then worked out and important priorities that have come out were, on the one hand, political education, on the other hand, the participation of children and young people, on the other hand, in their respective age, and, of course, the monitoring of children's rights, which we have to pursue, and to discuss here in Parliament. As I said, the survey is over, but it should have been a start for us and not a finished thing. In our parliamentary framework, we would have the opportunity to create something new in order not only to discuss the participation of children and young people here in Parliament, but also to live quite simply. We are already negotiating with the coalition partner, and we will certainly also be negotiating with the opposition parties. I believe that, as part of this survey, we have agreed that there must be something to follow. The young people also expect that this was not a unique story. We will certainly continue to work on this. One of the issues was unaccompanied minor refugees, and I am delighted that we have formulated a resolution out of this survey. I can make the following request, in which we have once again accepted the situation of young people who have fled their home countries, unaccompanied, without parents, currently 750 of the number who are now living in the first reception camps. [[Quoted print version removed]] I am pleased and hope there will be a unanimous decision. I'm a little disappointed. In the course of this survey, we also discussed the abolition of self retention for children in the hospital. In 2009, there was a unanimous decision to adopt this issue. At the time, the Minister of Health has contacted the national health experts. The outcome of the discussions at the time was that it was not possible at the moment, but they will do so at the next financial compensation. . Today we have tried to put forward a motion for a resolution, and it is very, very sad that this has not succeeded and that the EIA has actually adopted the joint decision.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e17657	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Lueger is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e17730	Next speaker: Mrs Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e17752	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! In fact, it was a very interesting event that we were able to hold here. There have been two lines in relation to children's rights; I mean competing lines. Let me talk about it a little bit. I make these two lines fixed on two statements that have fallen there. One was the statement of a speaker who said with regard to children's rights: “Who can meet these demands” of the children “better than the parents?” The other statement, so to speak, really contrary, was the demand of a youth lawyer to treat the children's rights, which she, as it were, was reluctant to see as an attachment to the Family Committee, in a committee of her own. In the first case, the family is seen as the unity between parents and children, as an autonomous unity, as a unity to which the state must respect and strengthen the self-responsibility of parents and their right to education, and above all there is a clear attitude that makes it clear that the state and the social partners are In a self-restrictive way, parents and children can only get involved in the relationship between parents and children if it requires the child's well-being. The other attitude shows a completely different social picture. Individuals are seen, and this is more about the emancipation of children, not of anything, but of their parents. You can guess that the Freedom Party as a family party follows the first attitude. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The concern that always pushes me around on this issue is: For example, what opinion will the ÖVP have in a year? - I can support my concerns a little. This Convention on Children's Rights was adopted in Austria for the first time in 1992, with reservations on three articles, Articles 13, 15 and 17. Articles 13 and 17 deal with the need for children to have the right to consume texts and print products – in accordance with Article 17 then media – in other words, as they wish, and also across all national borders. Article 15 deals with the need for children to be free to join together and gather together. Quite clearly, one will not want to ban children in any way information about media – we talk about children, well noticed. Of course, they will not be banned from dealing with others for unexplainable reasons. But if parents feel that the consumption of certain media products or a certain handling, for example with the drug environment, is dangerous, then it must be the right – I see it as a duty of parents – to observe and influence it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I believe that these reservations have been properly implemented in 1992. They were also maintained when, in 2011, children's rights were raised by a decision – only the Greens were not present – in constitutional order. At the time, the Greens have already expressed the opinion – which you have now joined – that these reservations must be removed and that the rights of children as a whole, as they are, must be accepted. [[towards ÖVP]] Now, on the 10th. March 2015, the government has distanced itself from these reservations. You, Mrs Minister, have published a press release to clarify the following: “With the withdrawal of reservations not only the repeated recommendations of the UN Children’s Rights Committee, but also” – listen! – ‘taking into account the evolutionary dynamic nature of human rights in Austria’. “Evolutional dynamic character”, one can also call it if, after a certain period of time of so and so many years, one joins an opinion expressed by the very left. You quoted your supervisor in the course of the debate on the reproductive medicine law. He has so justified – this swivel of the ÖVP also in this question – that he has said: If you don't design, you'll be designed. – They don’t shape! They are not the creators of the spirit of the time, but they join a spirit of time and conspire to a spirit of time, which is developed somewhere else. That's the truth! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I mean, the relationship between parents and children is very special. She's a very narrow one, she's a very distinctive one. We all know since Schirrmacher's book – which has really become popular at the time – the fact that disasters and wars are best survived by groups related are. The famous example of the Donner Pass: There the siblings, the parents and the children survived, not the individuals. Family is ahead of the state and society. As long as this foundation holds, it still remains, reconstruction is possible. That is why it is also clear that totalitarian states, by the way, are generally trying to intervene in this relationship and access to children, which is a particularly disgusting variant and a particularly hideous side of totalitarian states. And vice versa: Freedom-based fundamentals respect parental rights and only intervene if it has to be. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is to say, the state has two tasks in relation to children's rights and family: to intervene when it offers child's well-being; and above all, to create the framework conditions for family success.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e17864	The next item is Mrs Windbüchler-Soushill's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e17885	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! When Parliament talks about the UN Convention on Children's Rights, we are talking together about one of the most important documents in the world that actually sees children and young people as persons, children and young people as well as about giving children and young people a position in a society they have earned. If, as in the previous debate, the wish is that Austria should become the most family-friendly country in Europe, it will always be forgotten that it should also become a child-friendly country and in fact become the most child-friendly country in Europe. Family without children and children without a family, that's not possible. That's part of it, we'll find ourselves fast. But: Children in Austria have rights, and children in Austria also have rights that should be guaranteed accordingly. This includes, for example, the right to an adequate standard of living. The Federal Constitutional Law on the Rights of Children in Austria has already been addressed. Yes, we Greens did not agree at the time because children's rights are more than what is in our BVG, because children's rights are much, much more, than they are in the nature of the reservation. 7 and because the Convention on Children's Rights is still a worldwide document, which should also apply to Austria, namely as a whole. A point that does not appear in the BVG, in the Federal Constitutional Law on Child Rights, is the right to an adequate standard of living. The UN Children's Rights Committee has already urged Austria to respect this adequate standard of living – recently again. I quote: "The Committee recommends that all necessary measures be taken to reduce family poverty with its impact on children. Financial assistance to support economically disadvantaged families, particularly single parents and families of foreign origin, should continue to be well coordinated. Increased efforts are intended to help. the provision of high-quality and affordable childcare facilities shall be extended by single mothers on entry into the labour market." My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! This is not an opinion of the Greens – but it could be – that is clearly the opinion of the Committee on Children's Rights from Geneva, which clearly states that child poverty must be prevented from doing everything to prevent family poverty and child poverty. However, in the Federal Constitutional Act, there is no right to a reasonable standard of living. The question of unaccompanied minors is also to be asked as well. Although there is today a request from the government parties that goes a mini step towards protecting unaccompanied minors, this is still clearly lacking in the Federal Constitutional Law on Child Rights. The Geneva Children's Rights Committee also makes it quite clear that unaccompanied children separated from the families must always receive care, care facilities, adequate facilities. This is also reflected in the recommendations of the Geneva Children's Rights Committee. – That is, even this point, unaccompanied minors, missing in the BVG, has not been taken in. These points have all been clearly discussed in the survey, as have reservations. Reducing reservations in the BVG would in fact be a good, important and correct step, not a question. But it still needs a lot, much more! There is a lot more children's rights in Austria, that is, children's rights in Austria. It takes much more discussion and implementation, which is what the support actually means. Taking children's rights seriously would also be a good red thread through a child's rights policy. The children's rights also provide a guide. You can clearly also give you a political direction, and along this guide, Austria is acting and the Austrian Federal Government is also, in order to actually support all children, to support all children, regardless of where they come from, regardless of where their parents come from, regardless of what mother tongue they speak, regardless of what income their parents have. I expect this from a federal government.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e17937	The next item is Mr Ertlschweiger's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e17958	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! As part of the parliamentary survey on the “25 years of the UN Convention on Children’s Rights”, I liked one very much, namely the fact that this parliamentary survey was carried by a broad consensus between all the parliamentary parties and that the subject was really in the foreground there. We've heard it today: After the Council of Ministers finally withdrew the reservations against parts of the UN Convention on Children's Rights at the beginning of March, the full application of the Convention is now no longer in the way. That is why I am also pleased that we can take the next step together and that it will succeed in establishing the full integration of all children's rights of the UN Convention on Children's Rights in the Austrian Constitution. One of my personal concerns is the integration of disadvantaged children. I mean their active possibility of participation, participation, participation in society and prosperity. The fields of action in this area are very wide and range across different levels. On the one hand, we need the permeability of the education system for which offer children and young people with difficult start-up conditions and delays in development due to social, financial, emotional emergencies real development opportunities and thus equal opportunities. In my opinion, this includes, in particular, the protection, promotion and equal opportunities for children and young people from social backgrounds, as well as the promotion of disadvantaged children and young people, particularly in terms of education and training. We have to set accents in particular! We have to put emphasis on promoting talent and elites – including children whose parents may not be so rich now – when it comes to promoting daily hours of exercise, offering movement – the implementation of the day-to-day turn hour, ladies and gentlemen, is still a farce and is still not being lived – and when it comes to protecting children and young people from violence, Mobbing and self-representation on the Internet or in other media. In order to suffocate social conflicts between the different marginal groups already in the germ, it is so urgent, essential and necessary to bring in children and young people with migration backgrounds as quickly as possible. These children must learn German as soon as possible in order not to be excluded from education and, in future, from the domestic labour market. In my opinion, politics in general must promote the idea of prevention and active youth policy more. Unfortunately, for me, a negative example is the new Child and Youth Aid Act, which has completely removed this idea of prevention. That is, it will only react to emergencies. This is not very effective and is also much more expensive. Or the area of youth crime: If the only response of politics is to build new youth prisons or to increase the level of punishment, I must say that the pedagogical concepts of the last 20 years are falling asleep and also burdening the budget. My personal conclusion of this parliamentary survey I have visited is as follows: Yeah, we have a reason to celebrate, yes, it's a success. Yet there is still a very long way ahead of us to really give our children and young people an optimal start to life and really optimal framework conditions for it. I'll invite you all: Why don't we go this way across all the party borders together? Just as in the context of the parliamentary survey, where it was really discussed objectively. I believe that this is the task of a responsible policy, and that is what our children and young people can and must expect from us! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e18016	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Meinl-Risinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e18038	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Values of remaining viewers, beautiful good evening! No, I'm sorry, there's still several spectators. . I speak here, speaking here in the representation of my colleague Niki Scherak, who, like all other youth speakers, obviously, is prevented from speaking here now through an Ö1 discussion, which really saddens him because he took part in the mentioned parliamentary survey with full passion and full heart. Mr Scherak also told me in advance how enthusiastic he was, especially about the quality of the contributions and the participation of these young people. He also assured me that the quality of the discussion was quite extraordinary. That is why I must also say, Mrs Rosenkranz: I do not fully understand your speech, because anchoring children's rights as self-employed children's rights, which are not just derived from the parents' rights, is really a concern that we should all have here. That's how it came out. That is why I stress that because it is especially important to strengthen these children's rights when there may be a conflict in the family. There will then be a reason why it is so important to insist on these children's rights. To play one against the other, I find it a little flat. To strengthen children's rights does not mean to weaken families, Mrs Colleague, I do not see that at all. We also very much welcome the fact that the Council of Ministers has decided to withdraw the reservations against parts of the UN Convention on Children's Rights. We are optimistic about that. However, I would like to stress that this still does not mean that the Convention on Children's Rights is fully enshrined in the Austrian Constitution. There's still a lot to do here. The theme “Rights of Unaccompanied Minor Refugees” was addressed. This is, in the current version of the Federal Constitutional Law on Child Rights, only from the nature. 1 read out. But the Convention on Children's Rights would go a lot further here. I naturally welcome this today's step of the government parties with this proposal in the right direction. But I have to add a little bit that it is only a very small step if you have been able to get through to see if the situation and situation of unaccompanied minor refugees may be in line with the Convention on Children's Rights – because it does not match! The accommodation is not exactly as the Child Law Convention would provide: There was no request for it to take a courageous step in the right direction, namely to establish that other conditions should exist here. That is why I make the following request from my colleague, Scherak: [[Quoted print version removed]] We currently have the situation that we keep the unaccompanied minor refugees in federal care for months. There are documented mental problems there. We are far from being in line with a situation such as the Child rights convention would provide for it. It does not need this request, but rather a more courageous step. Moreover, I would like to point out that our call for a further step remains to be taken, namely the ratification of the 3. Optional protocols to the UN Convention on Children's Rights. Although we have signed this, we have not ratified it until now. Only by ratifying this Additional Protocol would it be possible to provide for a genuine individual complaint, after the national body has exhausted a complaint to the UN Children's Rights Committee. That is why I am making the following request today: [[Quoted print version removed]] We believe that this is a very, very essential step. With regard to human rights, it is obvious that one can go to the European Court of Human Rights. In the case of children's rights, it should also be obvious that you have an instance move outside Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e18134	Madam President, I have two motions for resolutions tabled by your group, but they do not cover the two texts you have read. I would only ask that this be the two requests you have made orally, that they will also be submitted to us in writing. But I just see your staff seems to be there anyway. I'm asking you to clarify this. We are continuing the debate. Mrs Karmasin has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e18161	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Ladies and gentlemen! I myself was a participant in the poll “25 years of the UN Convention on Children’s Rights” here in Parliament. It was a very impressive debate, really very meaningful, on a subject that was discussed and discussed very intensively with all those involved. In particular, I would like to point out that the young people and young people were here and brought themselves into Parliament. The speeches of the speakers who brought us their experiences and experiences were partly more impressive and meaningful than some expert speakers. From this point of view, I think this survey shows us very strongly that the child welfare and the rights of children have been taken very seriously here. One conclusion from the day was that reservations against the UN Convention on Children's Rights, which were still valid at the time, were withdrawn Let's go. And it didn't take long, namely, 10th. In March, we were finally able to give up all reservations so that the UN Convention on Children's Rights could be ratified in all articles in Austria. This is a very, very important step for children's rights in Austria. I would like to point out something: that in Austria we have the legal prohibition against violence against children in the constitutional rank, which is not natural. There are the so-called family-friendly countries – Denmark and Sweden – that do not yet have this implementation in law. Here, too, we are a pioneer of what can at least be seen, and we are also very much in favour of our efforts in this regard. A mention on children's rights spots: We had announced a competition from which a winner's spot included the quote already mentioned today: Children are not always right, but children always have rights. This is the award-winning spot that has over 2.5 million users in our Facebook action. I would like to stress once again. We have invested €1,000 in this campaign and have a range of 2.5 million users in Austria, which is clearly, I believe, proven that the tax resources used in this area are very, very efficient. Finally, the mention of our children's rights monitoring process, which I believe was a very important step, namely to discuss children's rights in detail in 12 working groups, to continue working with those involved and to have the latest knowledge and conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e18210	Before I give the floor to Mr Sieber, I apologise to the NEOS Group. Two wrong requests have been made to me here. The two requests made to me are only received at the next item on the agenda, namely at 13. I'm sorry. Your applications submitted by you are also filed here, properly filed and are therefore under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e18320	Next speaker: Mr. Sieber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e18341	Mr President. Minister! High house! The Convention on the Rights of Children, i.e. the UN Convention on Children's Rights, came into force on 2 July. ==References== As a result, all children in the world received securitised rights to survival, development, protection and participation. The Convention on Children's Rights sets out valid fundamental values in dealing with children worldwide across all social, cultural, ethnic or religious differences. Originally, Austria had reservations against individual parts of the Convention on Children's Rights concerning the freedom of expression of children as well as the freedom of information, assembly and association. These reservations were withdrawn last year. The withdrawal of the Austrian reservations was made in the Council of Ministers on 10 October. It was decided on March this year. Thus, the commandments are now fully incorporated into our law. On the occasion of the 25th anniversary of the UN Convention on Children's Rights, a parliamentary survey was held in the National Council Hall with children and young people as well as with experts on the rights of children. In four sections, the topics “Life and Design Spaces”, “Children, Youths and Their Family Environment”, “School and Participation”, “Child and Youth Health” and “Right to Nonviolent Life” were discussed. The discussion was, as our youth speaker El Habbassi assured me – who unfortunately also currently has to stay at the mentioned Ö 1 discussion and apologise for this discussion – a very high level. [[Abg. New builder: The poor!]] The expert contributions were interesting, but especially the contributions of children and young people were extremely high-quality and interesting. The UN Convention on Children's Rights, ladies and gentlemen, is an indispensable basis for improving the situation of children, but of course much remains to be done. Special attention should be paid to the fact that the prohibition of violence is actually enforced. In Austria, the ban on violence has already started a positive development, but it must not be ignored that in countries where there is no such legal ban, violence to children is 72 percent. That is, 72 percent of all children experience physical or mental violence there, and that must make us affected. In addition, a special attention should be paid to new challenges such as cybermobbing. Here the work of consciousness is of great importance. Ladies and gentlemen, there are still many countries in the world where child poverty, sexual exploitation of children or physical violence in the family are permitted or at least tolerated. Ladies and gentlemen, our children have rights, and above all they have a right to protection! To all of us – and I am convinced of this – it is a matter of heart that all children receive these rights and this protection as well!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e18383	No one has made any mention of this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request made by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, in 520 of the supplements, to take note of III-123 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously accepted. The vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Lueger, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Straster, colleagues and colleagues on improving the situation of unaccompanied minor refugees. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. (E 69.) vote on the motion for a resolution by Mrs Scherak, colleagues in the field of the care of unaccompanied minor refugees by means of child and youth assistance. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. Debates of the European Parliament Optional protocols to the UN Convention on Children's Rights. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – In turn, that is the minority and thus rejected. [[18:47:40]] 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on Amendment No 219/A(E) by Mr Leopold Steinbichler, colleagues, on ‘Annual Valorisation of Family Benefits’ (521b.b.) 12. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 220/A(E) by Mr Leopold Steinbichler, colleagues, on the abolition of the threshold for child care provision (522, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e18481	We now come to points 11 and 12 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. First of all, Mrs Kitzmüller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e18508	Mr President. Minister! We are dealing with two requests, which we put forward in the same way as in March 2014, which had been postponed by the government parties at the time, but which have been rejected this time, and which can finally be dealt with here in plenary. First of all, I would like to refer to the request concerning the annual valorization of family benefits. It is interesting how here the ÖVP draws some curves that are not comprehensible. I would like to remind you of the 2014 National Council election campaign in Upper Austria, in which the ÖVP women with Members of Parliament have made a signature action to make the mood for the annual valorisation of family benefits. We then made an equal application for annual valorisation in the committee, forced a vote by name, and what happened? – You won’t believe it! The ÖVP voted against what it called for in Upper Austria. [[call to the FPÖ.]] You almost can't believe that. The Minister also said that she wanted to do the best she could to support families in order to ensure a regular valorization of family allowances. However, I do not understand regularly that one says 2014, 2016, 2018 and then it will go somehow, but it really belongs to a confession to actually bring it over the stage each year. Member Tamandl has also said – to read on the homepage of the family association, she is an auditor there – that she is also responsible for annual valorization, and she has contributed to an application we have made and has said that this is very important for the families, because the family benefits have lost around 37 percent of their value since the introduction of the aid. Now, three times is being increased, and the story is done. – So much for a family-friendly ÖVP. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] When we look at the benefits that families perform over and over again, you can see: There is an automatic valorization – whether it be the motorway vignette that costs a lot of money, whether it be all the fees required for families in the communities! It is of course that the families are asked to cash out. But when it comes to something in favor of the family, we are no longer responsible at all, we cannot afford to do so. But the families must be able to afford everything. That's where I've got to say: I would ask the ÖVP to listen to their own people, who believe that annual valorization is important here and thereby put lip confession into action. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strasser: Have you read through the tax reform? You must have the tax reform carried out!]] Mr Strasser, Mr Family Spokesman, if you really think it is good with the families, then take our example of the family tax division, where there is a fair tax for the families, where families with children are very much preferred, and you do not give them, as you do, any alms that are taken away from them at first, and then give them back a little bit more and more. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The same applies to the abolition of the amount of child care allowance. I would like to quote the former countryman from Upper Austria, President of the Chamber of Economics, Leitl, who also says that the abolition of the compulsory limit would be necessary in order to make the families grow fair. You don't really believe you're through a family – I still have enough time, Mr. Rädler! [[Abg. Rädler: Talk time!]] – Look Once again, what it would be possible to do for families to benefit, for example, if you want to have a father's share in removing the limit of merit! Professor Mazal also said that the freedom of choice of the families is very much restricted by the limit of merit. You should take the lead in your own advice, which invites you to each survey. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Really, do something for the families if you want to be family friendly! If you believe that it is already the stone of the wise to come through a simplification to a family promotion, you actually do something for the families and help here that not only alms are given to them!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e18588	The next word comes from Mrs Fichtinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e18609	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Dear viewers in front of the TV screens! High house! I would also like to take a brief look at Mr Steinbichler's request concerning the annual valorization of family benefits. As a positive remark it is certain to say that a good intention is behind it, that is certainly not to deny, but also a populist one. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] Mr Strasser has just thrown it in, we have the tax reform in work, in implementation. There is nothing in the request for funding. I think that is still a very important point. [[Abg. Steinbichler: With reforms! That is of course!]] I should like to point out once again what happened in the last year alone, which points could be implemented. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Kitzmüller and Mr Schimanek.]] I do not need to repeat it again, Mrs. Minister and previous speakers have already mentioned it, the child allowance was increased last year and will also be increased in 2016 and 2018, the family allowance for disabled children increased from € 138 to €150 in the previous year and will also be increased in 2016 and 2018. The doubling of the child allowance, the inapplicable form of family allowance, there are so many points so that one cannot simply say that nothing has happened. The kindergarten is also free of charge in most of the federal states. That too is not a matter of course. Of course, it is also very much for the municipalities. I know what that means myself as mayor. [[Abg. New builders: They will soon be empty, the kindergartens if we no longer have children!]] It is done very, very much for the families in Austria. I do not think we need to discuss this. [[Abg. Neubauer: Why don't you talk about it?]] But simply standing down and demanding a flat-rate thing is not always targeting either. Our children need security, parents, grandparents, a place where you feel comfortable. We do not need to discuss this. The family is and remains the most important institution in our society and needs our constant support in the future. [[Abg. Steinbichler: The families are threatened by the ÖVP!]] We will work to ensure that we really become a family- and child-friendly country in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e18696	Next, Mrs Mag. Musiol speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e18718	Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that we now have these two requests here in Parliament, which are part of the National Council meeting, is already a great surprise. For all those who are, so to speak, not familiar with the parliamentary event: It is not true that all the requests we make to opposition parties will also find their way to the National Council meeting. They often just stick to the committees. So these two proposals, but also many other proposals, have already been put x-times by various political groups. For example, we have already put forward this valorization proposal, you too, colleague Kitzmüller. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And many other requests have been made to the Education Framework Act, for example, Mrs Mienl-Reisinger, I, my predecessor, have already and, as I believe, even their predecessor. However, these applications have never come to the National Council meeting because ÖVP and SPÖ like to do the following: not to accept these requests in the Committee or to reject them – that would be a prerequisite for them to come here – but simply to postpone them. They can do that forever. There's no deadline. There's no limit. As I have already said, it is possible to postpone applications for more than ten years from my predecessor, my predecessor. They must be reintroduced when there is a new legislative period, but then they will be postponed again. Against this background, it is a great surprise, but also joy that we will come to a discussion and that you could once get through to refer to position here, even if that was perhaps difficult. I think it is very important for the political and democratic debate that we take a position so that people also know what the arguments are, because the discussions in the Committee take place behind closed doors. – Unfortunately! We also demand that committees take place publicly. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Now, specifically, on the requests. With regard to the removal of the earnable limit: We have rejected this request in the Committee, we will also reject it today, because we see a problem here. The request sounds good, but there is a problem. One of our objectives in family policy is, so to speak, the uniform division between both parents, i.e. between mothers and fathers or all adults. If one were to abolish the limit of commitment here, then all the experts – the Chamber of Workers, ÖIF and many other experts – could come to the following problem: that, although fathers are officially in Karenz or have children's money, but because they can earn, they actually work again, because they may also need it for family income. This may lead – and there must be no evil will behind it at all – that the full load remains with the mothers again. We do not want that and, fortunately, other political forces in this House do not want it. That's why we reject the loss of the limit of trust. But what we also need to discuss about the child care account is whether we also introduce a working time limit. Here a flexible model, in which you say you can work up to this and so much, for example, 30 hours, could be quite a variant. We would have agreed to the request concerning the valorization of family benefits – we have already requested it. But, of course, in the context of this request, the question is what the support of families should even look like. Let me just briefly refer to the tax reform. Today A lot has already been said about this in the morning, our clubwoman Eva Glavischnig has already mentioned this: If you are talking about the fact that something is being done for families in the course of this tax reform, then I have to hold on to you – and now I look at the ÖVP instead of the ÖVP, but towards SPÖ – that this is not necessarily a family-friendly and family-supporting tax reform, which is carried out with your other social policy objectives. We have already told you about the last tax reform. Because it is based solely on the fact that tax relief occurs here, this time in the form of doubling allowances. However, this is true of certain groups, whose lawyers you want to make regularly, not those who have such low income that they do not have to pay any tax at all. Against this background, this so-called family-supporting, family-friendly discharge package does not cover all families, especially those who needed it urgently. And this 100 million € that you invest there – I spoke too fast again, you can't complain again – would have been especially needed in the area of childcare, in order not only to invest in the expansion of childcare, but also in the quality, where we still need to catch up. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] There is a need for steps to ensure that all institutions also deserve the name educational institution, and there is simply a need for financial support. We also know that all these tax reliefs, which you last decided, will not be collected at all. That is, it is not even plausible why you increase an amount or why you put more money in the pot here, although the pot that is already present is not exhausted at all. Against this background, it is not a family-friendly tax reform and not a step towards more family-friendly Austria, but it means again only the well- and better-earning families, but not all.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e18788	Mrs Lueger is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e18809	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! I would also like to comment on the two proposals. Mrs. Musiol, for the single parents, something is already happening in the tax reform that we are now doing. They also benefit, even if they do not pay taxes now – of course, to a lesser extent, but we have made it very clear that this group of persons is also involved. [[Abg. Glavischig-Piesczek: Where?- Oh, my God!]] And Mrs. Kitzmüller, always talking about small amounts that you give to families, my colleague Knes said earlier: If you're taking the social report, you'll see that in 2013 we made €8.73 billion available to families. And the expansion of childcare facilities with 305 million is not yet included. The 100 million are not yet included in the tax reform. And not the 55 million, which are then not used here, but in the course of the language promotion of the little ones and also in connection with the school. In view of the small amounts, I do not think that is possible! You know very well that in the European comparison Austria is very envied and Austria is the true top payer of family benefits. It is always the question of whether it has failed to invest in the benefits we are convinced of. We shall therefore reject this request. I would also like to join my colleague, Mr Musiol, in abolishing the limit on the pay-as-you-go. They say that it would simply take more men to cover the child care money on the paper – but that was it! Because if I'm allowed to go to work and actually the reference of child care money is also there for me to take care of the child, then it won't work. Unlike you, we wish for a father's participation. That is also the reason why we will reject this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e18852	Mr Steinbichler. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e18873	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear spectators on the gallery and especially those in front of the televisions! Dear parents and educators too! Mrs Wurm said that a lot is being done for the families. That's precious, but I don't think you can do enough. And one of the first laws of this government, which was passed in this House, also shows that much is sold as success, which is actually no one. At that time, the increase in child support of €4 per month was mentioned, and on the same day, the budget accompanying laws decided to increase the insurance tax on a 50kW car of €4.20 per month. At least with us in the country, every mother, whether alone or in a community, needs a car, and that makes these costs evenly even. I think that is exactly the problem we have in this House, that much is sold as a success, which is actually no one, and, as has already been said today, the money is given from the left pocket to the right pocket. The services of the families are underestimated. We have calculations by various experts that these on the minimum wage basis represent a total amount of €60 billion. Now it comes: In this House today has been spoken of by hardworking or not so hardworking women. 80 percent of these family benefits are provided by women and mothers. A warm and sincere thank you for these enormous achievements of all women and mothers in this country. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] To the application for the valorisation of child care benefits: We know how far we depend here and on the family allowance, even though it is done in the case of pensions. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about arrearsance of 18 per cent and a 13 per cent family allowance. If we compare this with the actual cost of a child per month of €500 according to the WIFO calculations, we know what is done here: Depending on the number of children and the number of children employed by the parent, this is up to 17. Year of life 110 000 to 220 000 €. This money, no matter what form we take it into the families, is always a positive money for the state, it is money for the future, for the most important cell in our state. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I would now like to make a motion for a resolution. It has already been mentioned by Mr Lueger that this request should also have been submitted by the SPÖ at this meeting. I am already very disappointed by the former family party ÖVP. Since 2009, the KiB association has been making a special effort in this area, pointing to the unfair treatment costs of children in hospitals – we are talking about 17 million € – that up to 28 days up to 20 € daily. chen. I am disappointed that one cannot agree here to finally abolish this unjustified restraint. That is why I should like to make this motion for a resolution once again: [[Quoted print version removed]] We ask for closed support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e18953	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e19010	I can add that the remaining speaking time of the Stronach team has been exhausted. The next honourable Member is Mrs Mag. Meinl-Risinger. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e19034	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Our remaining speaking time is also soon exhausted, but I have two more speeches, which is why only very briefly. In principle, we can already talk about the valorization of family aid, but this request covers all benefits, and there are different objectives of the benefits that are listed there. We very much welcome the re-translation towards benefits in kind. That is why we do not agree with this request. However, we very much agree with the abolition of the limit of self-employment. I also share the concern that not the men stay at home, but the transfer page, the childcare side is the wrong side. If we want to do so, we have to set incentives and introduce partner months at Karenz instead of child care. That is why I would call for the abolition of the limit of merit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e19065	Mrs Schimanek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e19086	Mr President. Minister! High house! Mr Steinbichler, your two requests would of course have been fully supported on our part – unfortunately they are not supported – but we will, of course, support the request concerning hospital self-reservation for children and young people under 18 years of age. [[Rejoicing at the SPÖ]] Mrs Lueger, I think, has already regretd the fact that the EIA has not been lagging behind. I do not understand, because I think it is very, very important that we can also accept this request. Maybe you could go back to clause, and we'll start it again. But now again to the two requests: We too are in favour of lifting the limit of merit. I would like to repeat here again the quote of my colleague Anneliese Kitzmüllered, Mr President-in-Office of the Chamber of Commerce. He said that the limit of merit “makes more confusion than clarity”. But one should not hinder people who want to do something professionally in addition to child rearing. It is about showing ‘possibility’ in the compatibility of work and family, and not restrictions. “The limit of trust is a limitation.” – Citations. There's really nothing to add to that. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, even in the valorization of family benefits, the government is sparse. If you say, Mr Hammer, today, that we do so much for the families, then I can give you the 13th. Family aid which you introduced in 2008 in the course of the 2008 National Council election, but which is quite complete The bank assistance package has quickly come to a start-up aid. – That certainly wasn't support for the families. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The families are such as care needs, disabled people, pensioners among the losers of this federal government and also tax reform. This morning, the government has tried to get praise from the opposition for its tax reform. This has, of course, not been done, because of the 5 billion tax reliefs from your tax reform, only 2 percent are to be left for families. In return, if you increase the basic income tax for the families again, this is just an increase. Also the doubling of the child allowance to 440 €: This makes up €5.50 per child per month. That's just two Micky Mouse booklets. This fits exactly to this Micky Mouse reform that you present to the families here. They – the ÖVP – promised families an amount of € 7 000 a year. There's nothing left. And here I would like to quote Mr Alfred Trendl, his sign President of the Catholic Family Association. With regard to tax reform, he said: ‘Promising and broken.’ Families and voters are obviously to be sold for stupid purposes, trust in such a policy is disappearing, and surely the voters will turn their backs on it at the next election. This is a logical consequence for Mr Trendl. And the logical consequence of this is that the voters choose FPÖ because we are the only party that really stands for the families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e19152	Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e19174	If you really make a policy for families, it is a good thing to argue about it, Mrs Colleague. As regards the Valorisation of Family Aid, it is to be said that family aid, beginning last year, will be continuously increased in the coming years, in 2014 by 4 percent, in 2016 by 2 percent, in 2018 again by 2 percent, thus increasing gradually. However, what is also very important to me here is that, in order to improve the physical situation of the family, not only benefits are necessary and necessary and helpful, but that many measures are important to improve the material situation. The priority is to ensure that unemployment in this country is so low that people have jobs. It is therefore very important that measures have been decided yesterday at the government clause, an investment package that will lead exactly to the tax reform that will result in more money remaining in the stock exchange, not just having one job, but having a job that you can live on. A third point that is important is the childcare facilities, all day care, free kindergarten in Vienna, all the measures that also bring tangible support and relief to the families. As far as the abolition of the amount of child care allowance is concerned, I do not know if you have calculated what it would cost. [[Abg. Kitzmüller: Much!]] – A lot. We agree that this would cost a lot. And what would it do? [[Abg. Wheeler: The FPÖ doesn't care!]] I had the impression that there is a consensus here in the house that we want to put in place measures in family policy to increase father participation. [[Abg. Kitzmüller: Eben!]] - Just like that. And this measure would have the effect that although the fathers would take the money without changing anything in their lives without spending more time with their children. And that is why we reject this point, because we would throw a huge sum of money in that family policy would not have a steering effect at all here. Since it is far more important to reserve the money for measures that would achieve the right effect, such as that we finally take steps to make an absolutely meaningful papal month in this sense.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e19239	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 11: Proposal from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 521 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Steinbichler, colleagues and colleagues, on the abolition of hospital self-employment for children and young people under 18 years of age. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – That is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 12: Proposal from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 522 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. [[19:19:09]] 13. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on Amendment No 615/A(E) by Mr Mag. Beate Meinl-Reisinger, MES, colleagues on the implementation of a check model for basic education services (523 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e19315	We're coming to the 13th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. It is the first honourable Member to speak. Meinl-Risinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e19343	Mr President. As Mrs Musiol has said earlier, this request is also a surprising one. I think there were just too few items on the agenda for today, but I am very pleased to be able to discuss them in terms of content. Our application is intended to make the difference in the direction of a change from object financing to subject funding in the field of elementary education, in the field of kindergartens and children's cribs. In Vienna, subject financing is almost the same, but object financing is in place everywhere else, as in the education sector in general. Why do we think that a change of funding would make sense here? – It would have several effects: Money would follow the child, and that is a very important principle. The parents and thus the child receive the money and then the facility, and not the facility whether or not the children visit this facility. It would strengthen the purchasing power of parents and also the choice of parents, and thus contribute to competition in a positive sense and increase quality. The need for quality assurance accompanying measures is no question; this also shows international examples. But I would like to point out that there are some institutions that are calling for the introduction of a check model – not least the Julius Raab Foundation, which is why the ÖVP will perhaps support it. I have already mentioned that quality assurance in such subject financing is crucial. That's also something that accompanies us in our model of autonomous school. Obviously, that's what it takes. We have already submitted several applications for a uniform quality framework, a federal education framework and the quality assurance standard, which we have not put into plenary. I would like to re-submit the requests today. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] We are concerned that the principles in elementary education – and kindergartens are first educational institutions – are defined by the federal government, according to the quality standards, the education standards. There is no factual reason, no factual justification why children in Carinthia should be treated differently in Vorarlberg than in Vienna. This is the first educational institution and here the federal government must be responsible, and these standards must be developed jointly by us. It would also be important to obtain certification for childcare facilities, which would allow parents to choose. In addition, we looked at a German model, the Kindergarten-Eschatz-Ska-la (KES-R). I would therefore like to make the following second request: Resolution of Deputies Mag. Beate Meinl-Reisinger, MES, colleagues on the implementation of a certification programme for childcare and education facilities In the course of the debate on the report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on Amendment No 615/A(E) by Mr Mag. Beate Meinl-Reisinger, MES, colleagues on the implementation of a check model for basic education services (523 d.b.) The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Minister for Families and Youth is invited to send a draft law to the National Council providing for the establishment of a national certification programme for childcare and training facilities based on the quality assurance instrument KES-R.” This would also be an essential milestone on the way to kindergartens as the first educational institution in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e19457	The motions for resolutions are sufficiently supported, properly put in place and are therefore under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e19607	Next speaker: Mr. Sieber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e19629	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! The direction of the previous application is towards the implementation of a check model for basic education services. This address is questioned by experts, especially about childcare. The reason for this is that vouchers do not give real relief to families from child care and education costs, as parental contributions, for example in childcare facilities, are regionally different. It is also true that there is not a comprehensive provision of childcare services in all regions. The complexity of administrative procedures is also quite difficult for such check models. Apart from the fact that for the institutions, say: in many cases for the municipalities, problems with the vouchers can occur and that this also means that the necessary resources for the running operation cannot be provided. All of us are clear that the need for out-of-home childcare is and is increasing. Therefore, in the years 2008 to 2013, the Federal Government, countries and municipalities invested a total of € 185 million in the expansion of education and care services. Since 2014, this expansion process has been accelerated in the responsibility of our Minister Sophie Karmasin through an increased cost participation of the federal government, and incentives for a uniformly federal improvement of quality standards have been set. Until 2017, €440 million will be allocated to the Federal Government, countries and municipalities for the quantitative and qualitative expansion of childcare. For this year alone, € 145 million is available. This means creating new places, improving the quality of care and optimising opening hours and financing other accompanying measures. Ladies and gentlemen! You see that the measures taken by the Government and the authorities have largely outraged the present application and it must therefore be rejected.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e19674	Mrs Holzinger is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e19695	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! From the point of view of my view, the change in the financing of our basic educational institutions from an object promotion to a subject promotion including a check system offers potential in the area of transparency – as has already been mentioned – or the awareness of the cost of people by simply being known: What do I actually get for services from the state?, but only in order to be able to really produce this desirable transparency, I consider an expensive total change of the system we now have to be of no use. It would be much cheaper to switch to an annual report, as is the case in the health system, and to list the benefits that have been consumed over the course of a year. The approach of the check model with subject support will be quite problematic, but only when it comes to the completely free selection of educational institutions. I do not think that the proposed quality assurance due to competition – as it is formulated in the application – is, in my view, not possible, but there is a far greater risk of being transferred to the establishment of a two-class elementary education. The SPÖ also sees the danger that through the check model it will no longer be possible for the state to guarantee real local educational institutions, especially in rural areas. A check could only be redeemed and used where the care is available at all. This offer concerning the urban area is much, much more privileged. Social blending – an essential factor that one must also see as a factor in learning social skills – would also fall away because in our opinion a two-class education system would emerge. Because in the committee of colleague Meinl-Reisinger, the example of Hamburg was mentioned that it has already been implemented and works there, I looked at it. I have selected the contributions from the Family Research Monitor, and there says: Institutions, with particular educational quality, which are not so good at marketing, precisely because of competition, are rarely used in Germany. Institutions do not have reliable sources of revenue, which means that there is less willingness to invest and that professional requirements are also reduced. When the system was already in progress in Hamburg, after five years, MEPs have found that the Kita voucher system has not proved successful because socially weak families and their children have been disadvantaged and working conditions in the Kitas have deteriorated. Why? – The number of permanent full-time posts for educators has been greatly reduced. This means that part-time work has been carried out, and due to the poor working conditions, an extreme shortage of skilled workers has arisen, and, if early childhood education is needed, social responsibility has not been met. Against this background, I see the paradigm change that is to take place there as a threat to the current system. Transparency is the positive side, but on the other hand, I see that for the educational institution the child somehow becomes a commodity, an amount and the quality is in the background. However, quality should be of concern to all of us, namely quality of education itself, quality what the Group sizes, quality as regards specialization opportunities also for staff, for kindergarten and hort pedagogues. I believe that this must be our intention to ensure that the kindergarten, so that the basic educational institutions also get the priority they deserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e19744	Mrs Rosenkranz is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e19765	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! On the other hand, we would in principle welcome a paradigm change on this issue. We have – by the way, I remember – developed the check model already in the early 1990s and often introduced it into this plenary session. It has then become political reality in a transformed form with child care money. What benefits would that have? – This will strengthen the free choice of parents. I believe that this competition would not lead to a reduction in quality, but it would simply be a competition for what form of care is offered, what opening hours are offered, and so on what is best suited to reality in order to provide the best support for parents in their working lives. I think it would have this effect in particular. On the other hand, there are also enough examples. No one would like the idea of demanding an actual benefit in the event of care benefits, but everyone knows that some things really want to be chosen by themselves. But what disturbs us on this original request – which is here as an item on the agenda – is something old-fashioned. The freedom of choice is, of course, not the freedom of choice between various non-domestic childcare facilities, but the freedom of choice between family and non-house care; we have also shaped the word at the time, and that is to say, in the core. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is not exactly what is happening, and I have to blame you again and again, in contrast to what has been mentioned in the morning, that most women stay at home almost involuntarily. Every survey – no matter what, over the years – shows one thing: that when you bring young parents and especially young mothers the question is: Would you like to stay with her little child longer if they were economically insured? the majority will reply: Yeah, I'd love to do it! You know that here your opinion and the young mothers are completely apart and therefore avoid anything that would lead to a realization of this test. They try to put the conditions in such a way that it is better not to stay at home. Their family friends in the Federal Republic of Germany have defamed the efforts to produce something similar to the freedom of choice in the Federal Republic of Germany as a flock premium. You simply don't want to, because you don't want to realize that you as a feminist women's representative on this issue simply don't go d'accord with the normal average women of normal everyday life. But it is already an hour later, and this debate will be held again and again. It's nice that things are turning around like this. When I see Alice Schwarzer, with her 70 years on the one hand, and the young Birgit Kelle on the other, I know that it's going to be – that's definitely on the right path. On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, Of course, a check model – if it were complete – would have to have a certification option so that the cheapest childcare facility is not simply used, but a certain minimum level is kept. So we'll agree. The other thing: For a transfer of the competences from the countries to the federal government, we do not see a good reason. Just federalism – as Switzerland shows, by the way, with high competition – does mean that the most reasonable solution prevails, and the argument that a child in the Burgenland is treated differently from in Tyrol does not draw. There are models of child care facilities, and it will be clear which one was the best, and the others will follow in this direction. We shall reject this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e19816	Now comes Mrs Mag. Musiol speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e19838	Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Rosenkranz, it is always a pleasure to speak to you, because then I know that there is enough substance to which I can answer. [[Abg. Barbara Rosenkranz: This is beautiful and also true!]] It's not that I'd otherwise be embarrassed for answers, but there are quite a lot of differences that you can then argue well. Yes, we too are voting against this proposal. The main arguments have actually been put forward by Mrs Holzinger, namely in a very, very factual and differentiated way. It is an urban perspective contained in this proposal. It is simple in many areas so that you don't even have the choice at the child training facility, but there is one and the has restricted opening hours. This does not offer the framework conditions you want and you need, and yet, if you want to, you have to choose them. And this implies, so to speak, that competition regulates quality. I know, of course, that you are also in favour of adopting the Quality Framework Act and the Federal Framework Act, where we agree. Assuming that competition would ensure quality, I cannot join – I am fully with you, Mrs Holzinger. Apart from that, the current task of the countries is, and some countries, for example Vienna, have already made this change, but others have not yet. But we are in this respect for a shift to federal competence. Mrs Rosenkranz, I see this as very different from you in terms of federal competence, because I do not see why it depends, so to speak, on the postal code, on which frameworks are found in children's education facilities from early on. Against this background, it is urgently necessary to create a federal framework law, to achieve a federal competence, so that it is precisely group sizes, educational care keys, education plans, opening hours and much more clearly regulated. We will not let the greens loose, nor will some of the others keep it that way. On the issue of freedom of choice, because we have this discussion every time. They always define freedom of choice as freedom of choice between out-of-home and family care. Yes, this choice is to be made sometime, where we Greens are not talking about care, but about education. And here it is also important to get impulses from outside the family, which does not mean that we underlie the families that they cannot give these impulses, but we believe it is important to be with other children in a group, to experience education there, namely, age-adequate education, even in kindergarten, even in the nursery. But to be able to make this choice at all, you need to make offers. That's where we put and say: Offers need to be created, namely appropriate quality education for all children, no matter in which valley, in which state, in which city. Only then can we talk about whether the families have a choice or not.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e19879	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of his report 523 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Meinl-Reisinger, ladies and gentlemen, concerning a change in the level of competence in the field of hort and kindergartens and, as far as possible, the adoption of a federal framework law for elementary pedagogical institutions. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – That is rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution by Mrs Meinl-Reisinger, colleagues, on the implementation of a certification programme for childcare and education facilities. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – That is rejected. [[19:38:31]] 14. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 834/A by Mr Johann Höfinger, Mr Rudolf Plessl, colleagues on a federal law with which the Umweltförderungsgesetz (UFG), BGBl. No. 185/1993, as last amended by the Federal Law BGBl. I No. 40/2014, amended (516 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e19953	We're coming to the 14th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. I call Mr Höfinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e19980	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! This proposal on environmental promotion legislation deals with the urban water sector, a very important subject in which our municipalities, in our places, because it is both about the supply of drinking water and about the collection and cleaning of waste water. This area comprises – starting with the new buildings to renovations and inspections – the entire area of the water industry. Our request includes that 100 million € in grants are available in parallel with the continuation of the Financial Balance Act in 2015 and 2016. This has an improbable impulse, because we know in principle that a funding euro will trigger four more investment euros. With €100 million, construction volume of €400 million will be triggered. We know that 2 240 applications are already available for construction projects that are ready for approval, which can then trigger EUR 155 million of investment and funding. The municipalities and Communities are already waiting for the release of these funds, because we have also packed in this request that funds that have not already been flown as a funding euro from 2011 can continue to be provided. These projects, which have already been requested, can then be implemented. In this context, economic recovery through these major construction projects and also job security are essential. We know that we can create and secure around 4,400 jobs each year with this package. This is also an essential part of labour market policy, especially in rural regions. With this proposal we meet very many political demands. Both the national conference and the various countries, the Land Days Land Environment Conference and many, many more, have also insisted that this funding volume can be resumed. We want to comply with this decision. I can only ask you for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e20022	I call Mr Wenninger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e20044	Mr President. High house! With today's decision, the Federal Government is making 100 million € available to the municipalities for the year 2015/16 for the promotion of the urban water industry. This sounds natural and little exciting to many, but if you look a little beyond the edge of the plate, you can see that it is not natural that in Austria 90 percent of households are connected to the public water pipeline and over 95 percent are connected to a public sewer system. Everyone knows from the holiday that it is not natural to drink water from the water pipe, then the plastic bottles stand everywhere. If you look further, you have to say that there are more than 1 billion people in this world who do not have access to drinking water. According to UNICEF, the 2,000 children die daily from diarrhoea. Every day, 2,000 children die because water supply and access to sanitary facilities are not provided. However, I would like to add another aspect in the direction of those tax experts, financial experts and experts for all those who like to sit down “In the Centre”, in the “Report” and in the “ZiB 2” and tell us that we can actually cut and delete the funding anyway all rigorously linear, because Austria has a jungle of funding. I believe that it is precisely this example that it is clear that the promotion cannot be based on linear guidelines for cut-offs. It is necessary to look at any kind of support for itself. In the field of environmental promotion, Austria is certainly a model country. The promotion of the water and wastewater sector ensures the quality of life of the community. In this sense, I am very glad that we have succeeded in obtaining a unanimous decision on this matter in the Committee on the Environment.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e20083	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Winter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e20104	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. In advance, I would like to say that we voted in favour of this proposal in committee. We shall also vote in plenary, because this is a good request. It is only because these 200 million euros of taxpayers actually return to the economy of their own country. This amendment to the Environmental Promotion Act empowers the Minister of the Environment to distribute €200 million to the urban water industry as a support within two years. As we know, the proposals do not end, that is, the sum as such is still too small. In this context, I should like to mention the flood disaster in Wörgl in 2005. We all remember. Since 2005, the Wörglers have been waiting for the promised protective dam, and nothing has yet to happen. We have talked about this in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, and I should like to thank my colleague, Mr Schimanek, for it is she who constantly insists on fulfilling this promise. The Minister for the Environment has meant briefly, even if he is particularly concerned that this dam is being built, because he himself comes from this area, that negotiations have already been started with the national offices, but there is still a problem with cost assessment. Time goes into the country, and I hope the Wörglers will still get their protective dam. I would like to mention the following: There is a big problem, I think, with the settlement or building rights permit, because all experts or all naturalists know that a river, a stream needs a floodland. This flood area should be taken into account so that such disasters do not occur. But who narrows and upgrades the rivers? - Man. Who approves? – The relevant building office. That is, the fees actually paid at the building office do not include any obligations, because the damage must be borne by the taxpayer again. Ladies and gentlemen. Again and again the term “Environmental Committee” bothers me. . I think that a better text for this would be the Committee on the Protection of the Environment, because in this context one should already consider: Environmental protection is human protection. – I thank you for the attention or the non-existent attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e20145	Mrs Mag. Brunner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e20166	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, and all those of us in the environmental field. Listen to points or watch at home. I'll say it in advance: My group will vote in favour of this request. The applicants have explained it; we see this initiative as positive. It will continue to ensure the commitment framework for the settlement water management. We do not want to give our assent to good initiatives and meaningful initiatives. However, I would like to stress, also as the Committee on the Environment, that this proposal may seem to give rise to the fact that there are few environmental issues that are being discussed here in the House. I would like to say to the public, of course, that was not the only initiative in this House. We have discussed a number of other initiatives in this committee. Unfortunately, the government parties did not give their consent. They did not reject them either, otherwise we would have the opportunity to debate this publicly today, but the other requests were all postponed. There were 14 items on the agenda; one that gets approval from all the political groups is being debated here today. All other agenda items, 13 in number, were opposition parties' requests. They were all postponed and can unfortunately not be treated publicly here today. It is important to me, however, to say that there are many initiatives and that the Environment Committee is very active. I would like to point this out. I would like to address my initiatives in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. There were limits for plastic. You probably know the events surrounding plastic in the Danube. This is where plastic industrial plants have been introduced into the Danube. After that, it has become apparent that this has not actually resulted in a violation of law at all, because plastic is not recognised as a problem in our environmental legislation. I wonder that we as legislators are not able to recognise this: Plastic is not a natural substance, plastic is a plastic and has not lost anything in the Danube or elsewhere in the environment. I will stick to this initiative and hope that we, as legislators, will also see this problem and use limit values for it. The studies carried out by the Minister for the Environment have found that 87 percent of the plastic that is in the Danube is actually caused by Literring, i.e. what is thrown away so daily. Many Members have also reported this not only in the rivers, but also in our fields, on roads and so on. A decisive measure to avoid Literring is the deposit system. I have requested the introduction of deposit systems and therefore, in conjunction with them, the increase in the multi-way rate. Unfortunately, this has also been postponed, but we will also stay there. Another important point was the continuation of climate change measures. The climate protection programme in Austria expired in 2014. The Minister for the Environment has just presented another proposal, which I do not think is appropriate to achieve our further objectives. I am sorry that we, as legislators, do not also take the initiative here and make the appropriate requirements for the Minister for the Environment. We are also in favour of making demands to the Minister on what he has to do. And what climate protection is about would be urgently necessary. Another important point, if the participation of citizens in this discussion is already excluded, is the participation of citizens and NGOs in environmental procedures. This is always an important issue. There are also several international routings because Austria does not comply with obligations. This initiative, too, has unfortunately been postponed. I hope that, in the future, we will have more joint initiatives in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, or at least the controversial points in this House. In order to be able to discuss this publicly so that the population can know and share what it is all about environmental policy in Austria. It's clear: Austria urgently needs an independent, strong and committed Ministry of the Environment and Energy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e20232	I call Mr Pock. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e20254	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! First of all, I would like to mention that we voted in the Committee on the financing of the urban water industry, and we will do so in plenary today. However, I have already asked myself a very central question for which there was no room for discussion in the Committee: Why should an investment in urban water infrastructure be an environmental promotion? Mr Weninger has used this funding as an example of the fact that there is no linear reduction in funding. I give you the right that it would not be possible in this case, but only for the reason that it would not actually be a promotion. This is a budget item for water management infrastructure. [[Abg. Wenninger: Then it belongs to another resort!]] It does not belong to the Ministry of the Environment, but to the Ministry of Infrastructure. That is – I cannot explain why this funding is taking place there – a wrong decision. I would also like to address the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Mr Brunner of the Greens has already mentioned: We had 14 agenda items; 13 agenda items were postponed. For those who do not deal with the processes so intensively: This means that they come into the lap, are taken out every three months briefly and then postponed again. These 13 initiatives by the Greens, the Freemans, the Stronach and NEOS teams, which were on the agenda, were among very different blocks of topics. NEOS would not have agreed to all, but there were very relevant issues concerning Austrian environmental policy. For example, in the field of plastic in water, the Federal Environment Agency has presented an excellent study which gives us a basis for decision-making to take further steps that are obviously not ready to take. We also have concrete measures in the area of the EURATOM Treaty and in the final storage of nuclear waste, which directly concern us, as neighbouring countries continue to invest in nuclear energy. There they will also have to dump their trash somewhere. These topics were not discussed either. We had the field of forcing non-genotechnic feed. In Austria, it is in fact a need for the population to extend the provisions on protection against genetic engineering. That too has been postponed. As far as environmental protection in Austria is concerned, we have had the demand for coal electricity to exit, i.e. more renewable energy, less coal. That too has been postponed. We had the desire for an ambitious climate protection programme. That was also postponed. We had the desire to finance a flood protection dam in Tyrol. No reasonable discussion was made. We had the full implementation of the Aarhus Convention. To this end, we need to know that we had an expert hearing that all environmental lawyers in Austria have written a letter to the nature protection attorney in Vorarlberg, asking us to implement it. But nothing happened either! What do all these topics have in common? . The Committee's whole may well have presented the current problems in Austrian environmental policy, but there is, in particular, a massive blockade on the part of the People's Party. One does not want to discuss current problems in the least. We will continue to work on it. We won't give up, we won't resign. We will continue to force our requests and will also go to the coalition and try to revitalize parliamentarianism. Finally, I would like to draw on an example that stands for the discussion: For example, in the Committee on Petitions, there is the habit of discussing the issues before the Committee meeting in a group leader's session and trying to find consensus. Of course, the opposition parties are willing to address the government parties and try to formulate joint applications. Just because there is no active action on the government side, this is certainly not a sufficient argument that we continue to have plastic in the water, insufficient environmental protection directives or coal burning in our environment. That can't be the result. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e20296	Mrs Karmasin spoke on a point of view. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e20318	Ladies and gentlemen! Water protection has a long tradition in Austria, which is out of question. It is, I believe, also a part of our Austrian identity to be proud of our water quality, not only in the drinking water sector, but also in the water quality of lakes and rivers. That is why this novelle to the Environmental Promotion Act is certainly an excellent contribution to maintaining and expanding this quality. At this point I would like to express particular thanks to my colleague Mr Rupprechter, who is unfortunately in charge of other agendas today. [[Abg. Brunner: But that doesn't come from him! That's from Parliament!]] – Nevertheless, the Minister has implemented it. In any case, € 100 million a year, a total of € 200 million, will be implemented in the next few years, so that some projects that are already ready for start, namely 2 240 mature projects, with a funding value of € 155 million and a volume of € 775 million can be implemented. So there is no question that this funding volume is an essential contribution to strengthening our water quality. Investments amounting to more than €400 million per year, which are still under way by the local authorities. This will, of course, also increase GDP and, in the end, it is also about jobs. In concrete terms, an estimated 4 400 jobs are created in rural areas.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e20352	Mrs Diesner-Wais. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e20376	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen here in Parliament! Pure drinking water from the water pipeline is a matter of course with us in Austria. It is an essential element for our high quality of life that we find in Austria. Water is one of the most important foods, and there is of course an efficient water management particularly important. Thanks to the high investments of federal government, countries and local authorities, we have a really good infrastructure that has high standards and of course also brings good water quality. In Austria, there are 1.4 million household connections, 76 700 kilometres of water supply, 89 100 kilometres of public channels and 1 841 municipal treatment plants. That is, for more than 90 percent of the population there are municipal treatment plants. We are relatively far ahead in Europe and worldwide, but there is still a need for action, especially in rural areas. It is very important to us that we continue to invest in water supply and disposal in parallel with the financial compensation. We've already heard: In 2015 and 2016, the settlement water management fund will each pledge €100 million in funding for investment – and that, although we have savings budgets, is an important thing. The Minister has also mentioned this: This, of course, also produces investment volumes in the municipalities. It will be invested and it will create and maintain jobs. This, of course, also has a positive impact on health and the environment. And what is also an important factor: The money stays in the region. There is regional value added for our businesses, for the construction industry; Jobs will be maintained or created. A functioning settlement water economy is not a matter of course, but it increases the quality of life with us in Austria and protects our environment. That is why we are, of course, in favour of this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e20422	I call Mr Plessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e20443	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The current item on the agenda is pleased to be a matter for further adaptation of the Environmental Promotion Act to increase the funds for urban water management for the years 2015 and 2016. And I am particularly pleased that we have taken a unanimous decision in the Committee. As mayor of the municipality Untersiebenbrunn in the region of Marchfeld, I am particularly interested in the issue of settlement water management. We need to expand the water pipes because it is alternatively and necessary. The urban water industry has been a success project for many decades. It has already been discussed what achievements have been achieved in this area: public channel: 90,000 kilometers; about 78,000 kilometers of water pipeline construction. Investments of over €50 billion were made. What is more, Austria is currently preparing an overview of the necessary restructuring measures in this area. And that's exactly what I'm talking about. The management information system has increased from 20 per cent to 45 per cent from 2011 until now. However, I would like to mention and hold here because there are reform visionaries who are talking about multiple funding being shortened: Especially the settlement water industry has a clear function and lives on multiple promotions. For the establishment, municipalities receive funding both from the federal government and from the country. And the benefit of these grants is the population, these are inhabitants in the municipalities. Without these subsidies, residents would have to pay higher fees. Finally, I would like to thank all those involved for their support and also thank the other parties for their approval. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e20486	Next speaker: Mr Schmid. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e20507	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! Water is a precious asset, not to say, probably the most precious. The daily supply is regulated by the settlement water management, which consists of the water supply and the discharge of waste water. This proposal is provided for in the Environmental Promotion Act in order to provide funding for the investment sector and its conservation totalling €100 million over the financial compensation. It is known that in the area of urban water management, there is currently a backlog of money disbursements for approved projects. In order to ensure a continuation of the funding, the Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management should be authorised to set the commitment framework at €100 million annually, both in time and in terms of its amount for 2015 and 2016. The proposal represents an important contribution to the health of the population, to the environment, to the security of supply of water to the population and to the promotion of the water economy, and should therefore be supported. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] ==References====External links== The Federal Government is well advised on March's World Water Day to stop the sale of our water to large corporations, and I refer to the planned signatures of the Free Trade Agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e20550	Mr Magnificent came to speak. It's a kilnauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e20572	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Values Advisors! Water and, above all, clean drinking water is one of the most important resources, including one of the most important resources we have in Austria. Not a few experts assume that water will play an even more important role in the future and may not be led to oil wars, but water wars. It is therefore all the more important to continue the development of urban water in Austria. to promote and drive the communities because they are facing a major financial challenge. The amendment to the Environmental Promotion Act, which is now to be decided, will further ensure the important expansion of water supply and the maintenance of existing sewerage. This is important because these plants should not be repaired until they are dangerous to health and groundwater and the groundwater is at risk of groundwater due to unsaturated pipelines, because clean water is a basis for a healthy life. Much has happened in this area over the last decades. The water quality was not as good as it is now before collecting and cleaning our waste water at Weitem. The figures already mentioned are amazing and confirm the good work done by the municipalities, the country and the federal government in this area since the late 1950s. On the one hand, our good water quality is important for our health, but also for tourism in areas such as Salzkammergut and Carinthia. Clean water in proportion is one of our livelihoods. Water in masses, however, means destruction. We must not, however, look away from this, but above all we must continue to promote flood protection. In particular, the communities in this area also need our full support, not only in financing, but also on the legal side, for the consent of the land owners on whose land flood protection measures are taken is necessary for the water-law granting of flood protection. However, this can become problematic, especially if funding guidelines and local circumstances simply do not allow any other dam management, but the property owners concerned can delay or even prevent a necessary project and a project that is really in need, despite a corresponding offer of purchase, a corresponding compensation or an offer of exchange reasons. I think that we also need to take further steps in this area to protect the population and to support local authorities. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e20623	I call Mr Buchmayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e20644	Mr President. Dear Mrs Federal Minister! High house! As we have heard, the current amendment to the Environmental Promotion Act is a very important support for the settlement water management of the municipalities in Austria. Funding is carried out in accordance with funding directives, and if, for example, a municipality wants to set up or expand a drinking water supply system, it is absolutely necessary to draw up a drinking water supply concept. To this end, the geological overview of the municipality, the integration into local spatial planning, the hydroeconomic inventory collection, the determination of the average cost of a single water supply, the future connectivity, and the planned presentation of the drinking water supply concept are necessary – and their costs, of course. What I want to represent with this list: It is done economically and ecologically here in Austria the best in order to create a quasi-basic right in Austria to an or- to treat drinking water supply, but also waste water supply with a high quality and responsibility. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] At the same time, liberalisation via Ceta and TTIP also threatens to take place in the area of urban water management. This proves a recent study from Germany, namely a study on the impact of Ceta and TTIP on the cities of Germany. Also in danger are the rents, the drinking water, as mentioned, minimum wage, universities, theatres, public universities – up to collective contracts, nothing will remain unchanged here in the medium and longer term. So we are all called upon not to change the back door negatively for the future, the basic living standards and living conditions that we consider to be of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e20693	Next, Mr Keck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e20714	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Promoting the urban water industry is an underestimated but very important contribution to ensuring our excellent water quality in Austria. And the settlement water industry is about financial support for water supply and disposal in the municipal area. The following figures illustrate the importance of these measures: 800 million people worldwide do not have access to clean drinking water; and as a result of dirty drinking water, weak hygiene and lack of wastewater disposal, almost 2,000 children under the age of 5 die every day. Also extremely worrying is the fact that 2.5 billion people worldwide still have no access to sanitary facilities such as toilets. We therefore recognise, ladies and gentlemen, that the excellent situation we enjoy in Austria is not a matter of course and must continue to be supported and promoted. The efforts in the past have already led to a significant improvement in the quality of our lakes and rivers. Nevertheless, appropriate measures are still essential in order to dispose of municipal waste water and industrial waste water and to provide the population with hygienically sound drinking water. Therefore, in parallel with the continuation of the financial compensation for two years, there has been a decision to ensure the continuous implementation of necessary investment projects to re-establish and maintain functions in water supply and wastewater disposal. To this end, a commitment framework for the promotion of the urban water industry amounting to €100 million in 2015 and 2016 is set. The Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, the Environment and Water Management is authorised by this Act to grant funding for the purposes of the settlement water industry, which takes place in the above-mentioned financial framework. You see, ladies and gentlemen, the amounts of funding in the urban water industry are necessary and targeting to continue to have a clean water with us in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e20759	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Dr. Feichtinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e20781	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! An ultra-filtration plant for water treatment and water supply for 40 000 people; Wastewater, a project in which energy is generated at the same time in the treatment plant of a municipality, to heat and cool buildings on the treatment plant. Why do I mention these two points here? – Without the funding provided by the Environmental Promotion Act, my home community, the city of Weiz, could not have implemented these projects. For this reason, these grants, which are provided for in the Environmental Promotion Act and are now being extended by €200 million for the next two years, are essential for the local authorities to be able to trigger investment as key investors that have a significant positive impact on the quality of life of citizens in their immediate environment. So what remains to be done in summary on this request? . My previous speakers have already expressed very comprehensively that they will give their consent to all this request due to the urgency, importance and investment that will be triggered. The implementation of the measures has resulted in 100 percent of the Austrian population being supplied with utility and drinking water – which is also edible – more than 90 percent connected to a central public water supply, more than 92 percent to a public sewer network and to a municipal wastewater treatment plant. The quality of the water in Austria has improved considerably by extending waste water disposal. This path is prolonged by the present initiative over the next two years, and this is good for both citizens and the environment. I'm seeking broad approval, as announced. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e20818	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Pirklhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e20839	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! No question, this initiative is positive. Interestingly, Mrs Minister, you thanked Mr Rupprechter. At least on this point I would like to correct you. The proposal is an own-initiative proposal; it has been tabled by Mr Höfinger and Mr Plessl. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] That is a good act of parliamentarianism. I might also like to point out the following: I do not know whether the colleagues have become self-employed or at the request of the Minister, because if he had to present it himself in a government paper, it would have required a review, and this could in principle have allowed us to discuss further development. It is particularly important and positive that the water supply and wastewater treatment in Austria is primarily in municipal hands, only a small part is carried out cooperatively. This is internationally remarkable, a success story and should also be further protected if, for example, international negotiations threaten, as with TTIP. [[President Hofer gives the bell sign]] We need to point out again and again that public public services – and this also includes the community – must be protected. [[President Hofer gives the bell sign again]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e20900	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 516 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – That is also unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. The agenda is exhausted. [[20:17:42]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00064_d8e20949	I announce that in today's session, the self-employed applications 988/A(E) to 1032/A(E) were submitted. Question No 4360/J to 4391/J has also been received. The next meeting of the National Council on business communications and allocations will be convened at 8.18 p.m., which is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
