ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e4314	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I'll open the 79. Meeting of the National Council. The Official Protocols of 77 and 78. Meeting of 8. In June 2015, the Parliament's management remained inconvenient and undisputed. For today's sitting, as prevented, MEPs have been told that there is a breakthrough, Doppler, ing. Hackl, Mag. Hauser, Kickl, Walter Rauch, Themessl and Mag. Aslan. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e4348	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following statement: The Federal Minister for Art and Culture, Constitution and Media Dr. Josef Ostermayer is the Federal Minister for Education and Women Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek and Federal Minister for Europe, Integration and External Affairs Sebastian Kurz is the Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management Dipl.-Ing. Andrä Rupprechter. I am also pleased to announce the representation of members of the Federal Government who are present in another Member State of the European Union as follows: The Federal Chancellor Werner Faymann is appointed by the State Secretary at the Federal Chancellery of Mag. Sonja Steßl. [[09:07:22]] Absence of mandate and fishing
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e4418	The Federal Electoral Authority has received the notification that Mr Mario Kunasek has renounced his mandate and, in his place, Mr Mag. Günther Kumpitschin the National Council was appointed. Since the election permit is already in place and the person mentioned is present in the house, I will immediately make his fishing observation. After reading the vow formula by the woman writer, the new representative will have to do his fishing with the words “I promise”. I would ask the author, Mrs Angela Lueger, to read the vow formula. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e4454	“They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your obligations.”
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e4476	I promise.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e4491	I very much welcome the new honourable Member in our midst. [[General condolences.]] [[09:08:36]] Communication concerning the termination of club memberships
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e4520	I would also like to say that yesterday a letter from the liberal club arrived, according to which Members Rupert Doppler and Gerhard Schmid are no longer members of the Liberal parliamentary club. I am provisionally assigning to the honourable Member the seats with 182 and 183. I also announce that this meeting will be broadcast live from ORF 2 to 12 o'clock and from ORF III. [[09:09:11]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e4559	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: “400 000 unemployed, social system non-financial – protection for persecuted but no place for economic refugees” First of all, Mrs. Club Chairman Ing. Dietrich. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that your speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e4586	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! Ladies and gentlemen! We are not approaching this issue in order to beat political change, but rather to discuss a given problem situation openly and honestly. [[Abg. Schwentner: Ha, ha, ha! That's the joke of the day!]] [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Yesterday, a group of us were in Traiskirchen to inform themselves in this first recording center and also in the area once and to talk to those concerned. And I tell you, we were really surprised at how the situation is. We talked to the responsible person and asked him how it could be that each individual of these refugees has a smartphone and wears branded items. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Korun.]] Are these all donations from the Austrians? The head of the center, Franz Schabhüttl, meant, no, everyone comes already equipped with a smartphone, and the clothes donated by the Austrians are not accepted. [[Abg. Wheeler: Down! Very deep!]] [[Abg. Schwentner: That's not a change you're doing?- Oh, my God!]] Ladies and gentlemen, the head of the Centre has also said that an asylum industry, a tow mafia, ensures that people come here. That means that no one would come from himself, there would be no such towing industry. This is trafficking in human beings, these are criminal acts at the highest level, and I tell you, against which we are fighting! We do not want this crime to be stopped. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Abg. Wheelers: With these views you can not overflow!]] Asylum means protection and rescue. But this has nothing to do with a free letter for choosing the country where the best economic situation is to be found. Austrians are people who are always helping, for example in the context of “Neighbar in Emergency”. We have helped, from the tsunami disaster to the earthquake in Naples – Nepal. [[Calls:Nepal]] We like to help, but we don't want to be exploited. Now the situation is that we have 400,000 unemployed people, many people have no income, and I consider social acceptance by your refugee policy more than at risk. The results of the elections show that this is a matter of concern to people, because they themselves do not deal with what they deserve at the moment. Roger Köppel put it to the fore when he published it in the press. “The UN speaks of a total of more than 230 million refugees worldwide. Not even ten percent of them are considered as real asylum-seekers (...).” [[Abg. Korun: That's wrong!]] Ladies and gentlemen, this should make us think, because economic refugees are not coming to save their lives, but to have a better life. [[Abg. Schwentner: Were you really in Traiskirchen?]] As the responsible Franz Schabhüttl says, people come here because they were promised a house, a car, a better environment. [[Abg. Schwentner: That's incredible!]] Ms. Interior Minister, you have responded too late, you see this flood, these streams don't, you don't see that more people come to Austria day after day. To Traiskirchen alone, 300 people come day after day – 300 people for whom you don't even have a quarter! There are 2 952 asylum seekers with yesterday, 1 820 fixed beds, 480 people are housed in the tent village, and the rest is on the meadow, the rest goes when it rains, somewhere in a garage. I think these are states that no one here can be satisfied with. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Ladies and gentlemen, if you want to obtain the right of asylum, you must fight against its abuse. This is tow crime, and we are required to do something about it. Mrs Minister, it is high time we temporarily close the borders in Austria, that we carry out strict controls. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] We cannot rely on it until the EU responds, we cannot wait for anyone else to fulfill our tasks. The responsible Schabhüttl also meant that people only come here because tugs bring them here. This is tow crime. As I said, Austria itself faces a difficult situation. We have 400 000 unemployed, our pension system, as it looks, is not eligible for funding, and that is what people feel. People want solutions from the government, people want reforms from the government at last. They want an environment that allows us to create jobs again, that we have the opportunity to find a way out with income. What's the government doing? What are you doing instead of seeing people find jobs here? – As a government, you criminalize the people, you criminalize the entrepreneurs, you make the citizens glass, you make every individual citizen suspected of fraud, you vent the banking secret with a single goal, namely to capture the assets of each individual, to make a capital cut, to introduce a property tax, and to continue waging as you have done so far. That's not what we're fighting. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and the FPÖ representatives.]] [[Abg. Rädler: (in the direction of Team Stronach) Many are you no longer!]] Ladies and gentlemen, it can't be that we have on the one hand a situation where fraud, crime, tow crime is to the highest degree, and then the state deliberately looks away, while on the other side the citizens are being criminalized. That's a way we can't go. Finally stop putting everyone under suspicion of fraud, and fight where you have the opportunity to fight the tow crime through strict border controls! I call you our view, our positions: a clear yes to the asylum tradition, a clear yes to help those who really need it, but only for war refugees, for people who are persecuted, for people whose lives are in danger, and a clear no to economic refugees! – But Europe! [[Abg. Lopatka: But Europe!]] [[Congratulations on the Stronach team. – The representatives of the ÖVP keep tables with the title “EU-Quote Now!” and “Solidarity Now!” as well as with the ÖVP logo and the inscription “ÖVP Parliamentary Club”.]] [[Calls and calls between Green MEPs, Team Stronach and ÖVP.]] EU quota: yes, but divided by number of people – we have 1.6% of the population, we take 1.6% of refugees – not by social standards or by gross domestic product! [[New calls for interlocutors with Team Stronach and Greens towards the representatives of the ÖVP, who continue to keep tables up.]] [[Abg. Schönegger: We have new swing in the club!]] We do not build tent cities in Austria, but we build tent cities in the vicinity of war zones! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] To come to the Minister for Social Affairs: If the Minister of Social Affairs is famous, we are a best practice example across the EU...
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e4814	Ladies and gentlemen, I think we have all read the signs, and I would now ask to give the speaker a hearing again and to lower the noise level in the hall a little! Mrs. Club Chairman, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e4833	I wonder how excited all are when they see a little chatter and how they have sunk into deep conversations. That's so stimulating when you read about the quota, really great, ÖVP, you've got something to think of! As I said, Mr Hundstorfer speaks of an EU-wide best practice example; we are best practice. – I ask for a best practice example in the field of employment – 400 000 unemployed are clearly too many! – and also for a best practice example in dealing with asylum seekers in order to ensure social peace and social acceptance in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e4863	For a preliminary opinion, Mrs. Federal Minister Mag. Mikl's head of speech reported. Your speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e4884	Madam President. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear ladies and gentlemen on the visitor gallery and in front of the screens! Let us bear in mind the title of this current hour: “400 000 unemployed, social systems not eligible for funding – protection for persecuted but no place for economic refugees”. I don't know how you are, but I feel that the issue of unemployment is being deliberately mixed with the topic of refugees. Fears are being startled that prejudices are deliberately shaken here. I think that playing unemployment against refugees is unscrupulous. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] You know my position: no further opening of the labour market for refugees – a position I have long taken, a position where I am one with Minister of Labour. That means there's no threat there. Economic refugees are not the problem for the labour market. But there is another problem that cannot be found in the title of your current hour, namely the problem that economic refugees are blocking our asylum system. That's our problem. Let us just think of the great challenge regarding immigrants, about economic refugees from Kosovo. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nice.]] You know that we have reached a wave in autumn last year until spring of this year, where we had more than 500 applications from Kosovon citizens in the first week of February, but now we have about ten to 20 asylum applications from Kosovon citizens per week. We have recognised this problem and have acted and responded immediately, have taken immediate countermeasures. And the strategy we have taken is now best practice example across Europe. We have also provided for the future, and you have decided to do so here in Parliament, namely the rapid procedures for citizens from safe countries of origin, so that asylum applications from safe countries can also be countered. Yesterday, we have also worked intensively on the topic of economic refugees in the EU Council of Ministers of the Interior in Luxembourg, a discussion of all Interior Ministers with Commissioner Avramopoulos. There is a very clear common line, a common position, namely that we must clearly distinguish between persecuted or refugees of war on the one hand and economic refugees on the other. And all of us, all ministers of the interior of the Member States, consider this differentiation to be very important, because only with this differentiation can we expect the acceptance of the population. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it is not about the fact that the return policy in the European Commission's migration agenda is of great importance that the return policy is an important part of the asylum policy. Without effective return policy, there can be no long-term solution in Europe either. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Yes, there cannot be a functioning asylum system without a return policy. Therefore, the European Union is on the right track with its proposal to set up contact points in countries particularly affected by migration flows. There should be contact points directly at the EU's external borders, where it is to be assessed who is obviously in need of protection and who needs to be traced back as soon as possible. And, of course, there's the question: Yeah, who's doing all that? – There is also an answer: This is done with intensive support from FRONTEX and EASO. FRONTEX and EASO are intended to help establish identity, including in the implementation of the return. But so that economic refugees do not enter Europe at all and block our asylum system for those in need of protection, we need a change of strategy according to our Austrian concept of "saving life". The clarification of the need for protection should be carried out directly in the third countries, directly outside Europe, and the distribution of those needy persons should be made in accordance with a fixed fair quota to all 28 Member States. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This, ladies and gentlemen, is a long-term strategy that will help to create legal ways to get to Europe and to remove the business base from the tractors. Yes, I know, of course, that such concepts cannot be implemented from today to tomorrow, that the way is still long. But it is all the more important that we discuss these concepts, that we strengthen these concepts and that we start with the most important things, namely the negotiations with the countries of origin and transit, so that the return with the countries of origin and transit can actually work. It is important that we consider incentives for the countries of origin and transit so that return payments actually work, yes, that we consider how we can support these countries to improve the basis of life so that many do not have to leave their country anymore. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, as I said at the outset: I don't think I'm going to play unemployment against refugees. That's unscrupulous. I don't think it's very helpful. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I think that this is a little helpful if one spreads fear and horror here in the High House, while the other are fine dyeing. Both, ladies and gentlemen, have nothing to do with reality. It is true that we have an exceptional situation in Austria, even an exceptional situation in Europe. And here we have a common goal: Everyone and everyone wants to continue to be stable in Europe for Europe. Everyone wants peace in Europe and Europe. But in order to maintain this stability, this peace, it needs solidarity and the responsibility of all Member States and, above all, it also needs solidarity and responsibility for each individual. Yes, my venerations. Ladies and gentlemen, in view of the current situation as regards the accommodation of refugees, allow me to say a few more words. I am grateful to the Chancellor Werner Faymannsehr for this shoulder closure, which I wished to have, and we are here facing a common national challenge. Therefore, it is a strong, positive signal that the Federal Chancellor is also personally accepting this question. I would like to thank you for this challenge, because it is only possible to do so together and to make it possible.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e5009	I am still drawing attention to the fact that the speaking time of all other participants of the current hour according to § 97a Para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 5 minutes. First of all, Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e5033	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and in front of the screens! Let me get in touch with students of the New Middle School Welcome to the creative work in our house. [[General condolences.]] As we, ladies and gentlemen, have admittedly a very serious topic to discuss here, I would really be pleased – I have often said that at this speaker's desk – if we discussed matters and correctly and not mix all the materials together, otherwise we will get the one-off. press – and I say so too – that there is a very specific uncertainty here. The main task of policy is to convey and guarantee human security. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about refugees and asylum seekers, it must be said that all of us at national level, yes, if you want to do so, are generally suffering from the lack of foreign and economic policy at international level. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That's a fact. We come to the very, very difficult situation of always having to carry out these misdevelopments at national level. It is now up to us to try together to ensure stability with the European Union, but also with the international community of States in these countries, otherwise we can discuss this without interruption. Our loads are increasing – and not decreasing. I therefore believe that we must address this issue in the sense of humanity and security for the population. Let me also make two or three fundamental comments at the outset. It is not acceptable and by all means to fight that we have mafia tow structures in the meantime, which belong to fight at all levels. And there is a need for cooperation between European justice and police authorities. This cannot be resolved at national level. And I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that we must also address this issue in the context of the European Union. I really feel it is almost unbearable for us to take care of loud little things in the European Union, which is only annoying, and the Minister for the Interior must take note of this demand that we need a fair division in Europe is right – that we have not reached an agreement again yesterday as far as the quotas are concerned. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We simply have to say that in all clarity. Peter, one thing I tell you in all clarity: [[in the direction of the Abg. Pilz]] Here, from this speaker's desk, we constantly say how fair we deal with the refugees and then go home and do everything in the communities and countries so that they can't be taken in, that can't be! There needs a national shoulder closure, ladies and gentlemen. Otherwise, this question cannot be clarified! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I would also ask that anyone who has no real reason to make a refugee or asylum application be rejected. We cannot, for economic reasons, take up the rest of the world. But I'm asking: Look at the numbers from last week! Look at them! Only people from the war zones come to us. And we cannot even disperse at the speaker's desk, Mrs Dietrich, what a refugee and what an asylum-seeker is. That's where I appeal to a proper, clean discussion culture, because otherwise we don't do anything good ourselves. I think that this question needs to be resolved at some point in time. I firmly reject these tent cities, I do not make hales out of them, but in order not to use them, it is also necessary that, when we come to the distribution mechanisms, as far as basic services in the federal states, in the cities and communities are concerned, it is not only possible to say anywhere that one does not try everywhere to create a mood in the population, so that everyone gets scared, so that for some reason everyone says no. Finally, I would like to say: There is no interest in it and there is nothing to it, Mrs Colleague, if you quote Schabhuttletl a hundred more times – I come from this Region. In recent decades, Traiskirchen has not been interested in anyone. Traiskirchen had 2 472 persons in the Federal Service with yesterday's day, but we also have 630 people in basic care in our district. We have always known about this, but we also expect solidarity aid from Austria, the whole state. Look at the map! And now I repeat here: Just to say: Let's do it!, let's do it!, humanity!, we have to get everything into the meeting!, but then don't do it, it won't go. I am glad that the Heads of Government have now adopted this and that, I hope together, as far as the Federation, the federal states and the municipalities, but also the European Union is concerned, we will have a rapid implementation and that those who simply need our help will also get them and all the others will stay at home.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e5144	Next speaker: Mr Wöginger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e5166	Mrs. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Austria has been following its humanitarian tradition in taking up war refugees for decades, whether after the Second World War, during the Hungarian crisis, the crisis of the war. It's a tradition for us to take up refugees. Civil wars are currently taking place in Syria, Somalia, Iraq, Afghanistan, and therefore we are also faced with dramatically rising numbers of refugees. A few data on this: In 2014 a total of 28 000 asylum applications were submitted, this year we had more than 20 000 applications by the end of May. Last week, there was a peak of 1,958 applications. These are the facts, ladies and gentlemen. We currently have around 39 000 people in basic care. These people are cared for and cared for. 15 000 places have been created over the last 12 months. I live alongside 32 refugees from Syria and Afghanistan who live on the other side of the street in a former inn, and there are no problems with that. The federal capacities have tripled, the countries have doubled. But despite these intensive efforts, we cannot provide enough quarters. In addition to the activation of the support station in Vienna Erdberg, tent cities had to be built at four locations. Accommodation in tents, ladies and gentlemen, is an absolute emergency measure. Once enough fixed quarters are made available by the federal states, the tents will be dismantled. But I would now like to point out something that is absolutely necessary from our point of view. And this issue is really not suitable for operating polemics here. We have always taken up refugees of war, and Austria will do so in the future. The Minister has done quite right. Differentiation between refugees of war and economic refugees is an absolute necessity. We must take up those who are no longer able to live in their countries because they are persecuted there and war conditions prevail. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But we must bring back those who want to come to us, although they do not come from these countries, ladies and gentlemen! Therefore, these rapid procedures have been initiated, and differentiation is absolutely necessary. This also applies to the Dublin cases. And there were 22 Kosovars taken out of the country yesterday, so that this too is emphasized. Refugees who have arrived in another EU country are brought back there because the procedures have to be handled there. [[Abg. Darmann: You haven't done this for years!]] Ladies and gentlemen, this procedure is absolutely correct and necessary in order to be able to fully support it and thus to exert a certain pressure on the other European countries. This is not an issue that concerns only us in Austria, but it is this issue, ladies and gentlemen, all in the European Union. That is why there must be a quota distribution here, otherwise this problem cannot be solved from my point of view. To the conference yesterday, it was a first conversation: The conference did not fail, but it was a first conversation; of course, we will have to follow up further so that we can achieve a quota distribution of asylum seekers in the EU. EU external borders must therefore also be substantially strengthened and UNHCR sites built up in North Africa. Ladies and gentlemen, we call for solidarity within Europe, but there will also have to be more solidarity for war refugees in Austria. It can't be that some meet the quota and some don't. And most of them are those who still ask us why tent cities are being built – on the one hand, criticizing that, on the other hand at home, do not open up where there are possibilities. I do not understand at all, ladies and gentlemen, why some of the empty barracks are not opened to refugees of war. No one in this country understands why these barracks are not opened. And that mayors, especially from cities – I just mention Linz – prevent this, that does not understand the population. That is what we must call for, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It simply cannot be that there is consciously different action and then shown with your finger to the Ministry of the Interior, because the accommodation in tent cities is not judged. That is not the way to deal with this problem. On the labour market issue: We are quite clear about this, there will be no further opening up of the labour market. There are work opportunities in seasonal farming, agriculture, tourism, after three months; the municipalities can also divide asylum seekers for non-profit activities in the area of municipalities and municipalities. [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] Fears of incitement, ladies and gentlemen, are not our style, but we take the concerns of the citizens seriously. Finally, I would like to thank all those who work in the field of asylum and tourism and who do great things in these weeks and months.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e5269	Next item is the report by Mrs Dr Belakovich-Jenewein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e5290	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We are discussing an important issue here today. Ladies and gentlemen, you know, I have heard now, it is always spoken of by panic, by fear-making; the ÖVP keeps signs in the height that one would suspect in the greens. No one addresses the situation as it actually is. We are facing a very big problem. We have tent cities, there are still more refugees every day to Austria. We can't fight the storm anymore. - That's fact. At the same time, we have the fact that 70 percent of all refugees are not given asylum status at all. 70 percent are actually economic refugees, people who simply want to immigrate to Austria. That is the fact, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the Stronach team.]] – And these are not the figures of the “evil” FPÖ, these are the numbers we have in the last Committee on the Interior of Mr Mag. Divers have heard; this is the head – for the spectators – of the Federal Office for Foreign Affairs and Asylum. These are official figures from the Federal Government. Only 30 percent are recognised in 2015 at all. What happens to the other 70 percent? – They will live underground somewhere in Austria, because one, Mr. Wöginger – a pity you are now going backwards – is not the way you have described it: that we will do all this then, that we will then push off the 70 percent. No, we don't! There is not even a statistical one, Mrs Innenminister. I also wonder why there are no statistics on deportation rates. I myself recently witnessed an attempted deportation – but a little later. You know, we liberals have been calling for border controls to be reintroduced for years. In the course of the G-7 summit or the Bilderberger meeting, when the Federal Republic of Germany closed the borders with Austria, it was shown – the “Süddeutsche Zeitung” writes – that 6 000 people were arrested at the borders in just about a week. They were criminals, and they were illegal refugees. That is a reality: in a week, 6,000 people, only on a small border between Austria and Bavaria! Border controls are therefore a command of the hour, Mrs. Minister! [[In the case of the FPÖ and the districts Dietrich and Lintl.]] I know you don't like to hear that you have to close the borders. Denmark has also triggered a storm of indignation when it closed the borders in 2011. We will see what comes out in Denmark during the next elections, because that is exactly what it is: We can't get this refugee stream out of the way, people are coming in illegally. Nor does it come about that, for example, the Bavarian Minister of Finance – who will not be a stranger to you by the ÖVP – demands that the borders with Austria be closed because Austria is not in a position – that is what he literally says – to see that people do not go on illegally to Bavaria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] That, ladies and gentlemen, is the real problem! We all leave it alone, the open borders make it possible, and there is no longer an overview of who comes into this republic at all. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, what is possible is to close these borders and on the other hand to build the asylum camps already on the African continent or in the third countries. [[Accompaniment with the FPÖ and the Abg. Dietrich]] I know, Mrs. Federal Minister, you're on the train now. For ten years, we have been calling for this, and I know that it is always so rejected by the left here, but quite honestly, ladies and gentlemen of red and green: Think about who raised this issue at all! Who was the first to ask? – It wasn’t a freeman, it wasn’t a conservative! No, the demand for asylum camps in Africa came for the first time from a red, namely SPD Federal Minister Schily in 2004 – and he won't be quite unknown to you, ladies and gentlemen from the red-green front over there; after all, he was also the lawyer of the RAF terrorists, so far away from that you are not. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] [[Call:Gusenbauer]] But now on the subject of deportation, the deportation of those who come as economic refugees: It is also interesting that even the ORF-Teletext was published on 4 April. June has reported that the refugees who come across the Mediterranean are economic refugees, while those who come across the Aegean from Syria are refugees of war – and the ORF is hardly suspected of being a free medium. I myself had 4 years of age. June the dubious pleasure of becoming a witness to a deportation. There were three civil servants and a doctor on a flight from Vienna to Milan. ==References== June was a holiday in Austria, there was a deportation attempt. In spite of the sluggish injection, the sluggish has died there, and after a three-quarters of an hour, the pilot has refused to take him, bring him back to Milan. With a three-quarters of an hour delay, the machine started in Vienna towards Milan. [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] That is precisely the problem, Madam Minister of the Interior: These deportations are expensive, and the refugees are also massively opposed because the NGOs are in the background and say: If you shout out loud, it'll be stopped! That is why, Minister of the Interior, it would be possible to go anew and consider whether one could perhaps move off with the Hercules machine, because then they could scream in there as loudly as they want. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] At the same time, the BMI could finance the so-called federal army, which would have helped the federal army. [[President Bures gives the bell sign again.]] And the NGOs could stop explaining to the people that they should scream and rage so that they can stay here, because they can scream in there, as much as they want, it's so loud that nobody hears it anyway.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e5379	Come on. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e5394	And this asylum industry – yes, Mrs Schwentner, I know what I am saying – would finally be a bit of a garauce. [[Abg. Schwentner: Do you know what you're talking about?]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e5442	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Korun. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e5464	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen in the gallery and in front of the screens! At this current hour, it is supposed to be unemployment, and I would like to ask quite massively what is actually happening here. The Stronach team has claimed that we should deal here with rising and rising unemployment in the country. So far, I have heard mainly an asylum discussion. Ladies and gentlemen, there are obviously to be put in place against even weaker people – those are people who are in a difficult situation who are socially disadvantaged – namely, refugees and persecuted. [[call to the FPÖ.]] This discussion is intended to suggest to them: You can only do better if you step down and if other people are worse than you! The fact is: It has not helped any unemployed person in Austria to date, if anyone else was worse, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the Greens, with representatives of the SPÖ and the Abg. Shit helmet.]] Let us consciously ask the question of how much costs: How many billion euros does the hypo-debakel, the hypo-scandal cost us: 10 billion euros, 11 billion euros, 12 billion euros? [[Abg. Moser: 17!]] How many hundreds of thousands of unemployed people in Austria would have helped with these €10 billion? – Hundreds of thousands, for years! What about private foundations in which very wealthy, very rich people can park their private property tax-savingly, which pay much less taxes than the worker or the worker who automatically deducts the tax from wages? Why is no one asking what about the tax gifts to millionaires and billionaires? Why should people who are socially disadvantaged be raised against each other? [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig.]] The fact is that for years and decades there has been a redistribution from bottom to top. If a single, very wealthy Austrian family almost doubled its assets from 45 billion to 65 billion last year, that means it's a lot of wealth there. The social state is financially, contrary to all the unconventions we have heard for decades, this neoliberal dogma, it would be a “natural law” that the social state is being dismantled, it would be a natural law that for education, for integration, for health, for pensions there is no money, while wealth in the country increases and increases and mainly concentrated in very few hands. [[Congratulation with the Greens as well as with representatives of the SPÖ]] The people who are unemployed, the people who have to get emergency aid, because they do not find a job, the people who are in the minimum security and who can live by it more badly than right, should now be lifted up against the refugees of war from Syria, from Eritrea, from Somalia, from Iraq who were able to save their lives before ISIS?- Oh, my God! – Ladies and gentlemen, this is embarrassing, and that must not be! Another policy is feasible, solidarity is feasible, and solidarity is viable. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] We will not lose our social state, our security systems, our health system, and we will not be heated up against each other. No unemployed person/no unemployed person should step down to experience security in his own life. It is up to all of us to defend, defend and expand policies, the social state. There is a great deal of wealth there, the social state belongs to expanded – instead of being removed and outraged. [[call to the FPÖ.]] And the last of them should be those who are socially disadvantaged, who need help, who need support. [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] Together we will ensure that all the socially disadvantaged are supported, that they are given a decent life, and together we will defeat the witches in this country and strengthen solidarity.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e5543	The next item is Mrs Lintl's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e5567	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, Mrs Minister, all the measures you mentioned earlier could have been implemented during your term of office. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team, as well as with representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Rädler: Takeover Candidate!]] Austria is a popular refugee country: One is immediately received, gets on the spot an e-card with free access to the health system, best legal support, pocket money, basic care, and once you have asylum status, the family's legacy is legal. [[Abg. Wheeler: ÖVP District Prince!]] [[Counter-call of the Abg. Darmann]] These are ideal conditions for tractor organisations that professionally take advantage of the offer of the Austrian social state as the basis for their business model. The towing business now works like a travel agency: If you pay more, you get a more comfortable way to Europe. [[Call to the Greens: Comfort?- Oh, my God!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Darmann.]] Refugees who have escaped the war in their home countries are entitled to support under the Geneva Convention, but please, ladies and gentlemen, under the Dublin agreement, there should not be any refugees in Austria, because they were all in a safe third country before. [[Call the ÖVP: Family!]] [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Here the reception centres are overcrowded, and the population unfortunately no longer shows much willingness to help, because illegal migrants, mostly from Africa, and scarcely young men – and not families – already block everything. War refugees should have priority. What is happening here is a large-scale misuse of our right of asylum by illegal economic refugees. [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. Darmann.]] The EU is unable to protect its external borders, but the Schengen Agreement only works provided that the EU's external borders are secured. We therefore call for temporary border controls in Austria, as Germany has done for the G-7 summit – in which by the way, 8 percent of all those controlled have been attacked against the right of residence, which otherwise simply slip through the borders. [[Call to the Greens: Who is “we”?]] [[Abg. Rädler: Who is “we ”?]] France controls the border with Italy, also Great Britain has tightened the way. And how does the EU react? It will discuss quotas and will not take a decision again at the next meeting. That's just ridiculous. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] EU external borders need to be closed, and that is why we are calling once again for the Australian model: No way to get to Europe illegally! [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Instead, we need UNHCR contact points directly in the crisis areas. If there is an asylum ground, the persecuted are welcome here. Consideration should also be given to temporary asylum. And why, Mrs. Minister, do we not get answers to questions? How many illegal migrants are legal, how many illegal? How many remain tolerated, and how many are eventually brought out of the country? What happens to those whose asylum procedures are now frozen – they stay in the country with basic care – will allow them to stay in humanitarian? Why has the immediate deportation of illegal migrants, whose asylum procedures have to be dealt with from another EU country, not so far? Is this because NGOs successfully provide guidance to prevent deportations? What is peculiar is the interest of NGOs, which may be questioned. The term ‘asyl industry’ is often referred to in this context. [[Call the Greens: From the FPÖ, yes!]] [[Call the SPÖ: Who?]] Prevent deportations: In the "South Wind" magazine, a guidance is given to prevent law-enforced, law-compliant deportations by plane. Readers are called upon to impracticate an official act, so to speak, to act as deputys. It is noteworthy that the “South Wind magazine” is being promoted with the tax money of Austrian citizens from the budget for Austrian development cooperation. So it's a double abuse, and I'm going to make a request for it today. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] The number of asylum seekers and illegal migrants will increase over the summer, which is clear. [[Abg. Wheeler: Karl Schnell!]] I urge the Federal Government to provide political persecution from war zones with the necessary support, but to adopt measures as soon as possible that are suitable to prevent illegal migration. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e5762	Next speaker: Mr Delegate Dr. Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e5783	Madam President. Dear Minister of the Interior! High house! Mrs Bundesminister, you have talked about future concepts today, but what we should actually talk about is what you and the entire Federal Government have done in recent days – and that has simply been a declaration of bankruptcy! It was a failure at all levels, it was again a kneefall in front of the countries. Mrs Minister, it cannot be said otherwise: Because of this declaration of bankruptcy, you are simply rescinding, and together with you, the entire Federal Government is rescinding. [[I should like to congratulate the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.]] This is primarily a management failure: You're going to stand up on Friday and explain that you're going to suspend asylum proceedings now, that you're going to suspend and stop the family estate, row back a little the next day; Mr. Director Diver is rowing back on Sunday in the “In the Center” show and says that it was just a management decision; on Monday there is again a broadcast from you, you have given an instruction. I believe that what is first and foremost important is that this Parliament deserves an answer to what you have done now. Did you give an order? Was there a management decision? Was there a clue? What did you do? Regardless of what it was, I would once be interested in what legal basis You are acting at all, or whether there is a legal basis on which you act in this context at all. [[Abg. Steinhauser: That would be interesting!]] You have recovered today and said that there will be no access to the labour market for asylum seekers, although you know exactly that there is an EU directive that provides exactly that and that you are acting unlawfully if you do not implement it. You are also acting unlawfully if you wish to postpone a young Afghan, Laila P., today because of your order, instructions or whatever, today, even though you know that there is an opinion in which it is found that it is very dangerous, although you know how the conditions are in Bulgaria and that deportations are not useful there, and although you know that the deadline has long since expired after the Dublin procedure, i.e. half a year ago. [[Abg. Wöginger: But that's stupid!]] That means you're acting deliberately illegal! Your authorities are deliberately acting unlawfully! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] We can only be glad that there is a committed civil society that has a dedicated AUA crew that does not participate in such deportations and prevents such a thing. [[Congratulation with NEOS and Greens.]] Whatever it is, of course: It's a political failure of the extra class! Madam Minister of the Interior, do you know how many Ultimates you have put in the countries? – I looked at it again yesterday: ==References== In July 2014, there was an ultimatum that countries should meet their quotas. ==References== In January 2015, there was an ultimatum that countries should meet their quotas. - You didn't do it again. And now there's another ultimatum in the 19th century. ==References== And then let's see what's going to come out of it! Of course, what's bad is that you don't have any solutions to this problem. And if you have solutions that you have occasionally said, then don't put them into practice. You can't stand it! Last year, you haven't implemented any of the solutions you've proposed, even in any way, you've always been blocked by the countries. [[Abg. Wooger: Such a fool! That's a joke!]] The problem is that you not only do not solve the problems, but also make the problems worse. They worsen the situation in general, you aggravate the situation of refugees if you now, because of your instructions, order, whatever, continue to condemn the refugees to ignorance and uncertainty and inactivity that the refugees will continue to remain in first reception centres, that is, remain in tent camps. They make these problems worse, Mrs Minister, and if these refugees have to stay in camp, of course this is also human failure. It is absolutely inhuman that refugees must live in tent camps in a country like Austria, because you are unable to achieve solutions and finally present sensible concepts here. [[Abg. Wöginger: Locked at home! That's a joke!]] – Mr Schellhorn has locked up one, you know what happened there, right? It is inhuman and embarrassing that thousands of unaccompanied minors are trapped in Traiskirchen without care because you are unable to bring solutions, and because you are unable to put pressure on the countries! [[Congratulation with NEOS and Greens.]] If you can't even guarantee that the barracks will be opened – you don't know what's going to happen again now – if you can't guarantee it again, then it only shows in what kind of political system we live in, in which state princes say what to do in which the tail is racing with the dog and you are unable to enforce themselves accordingly. [[Abg. Wheeler: Oligarchen at the NEOS!]] [[Congratulation with NEOS and Greens.]] Of course, what the “crone” is all about is what happened yesterday: Federal Chancellors and Deputy Chancellors stand up and say they're making this the chief thing now. – I wonder where were the two of them last year, did they not realize that we have a problem there?- Oh, my God! – Then they also relativize their ultimatum and say there is no ultimatum to the countries, there is only one day. Is there now an ultimatum, Mrs. Inner Minister, that you will open the barracks, that the refugees no longer have to live in tent cities, or is there none? I would really be interested, just as I would be interested in whether you liked an instruction, an arrangement, or a management decision. Mrs. Federal Minister, what is happening here is a complete failure at all levels, it is a complete failure of yours, it is a bankruptcy declaration from you, it is a bankruptcy declaration of the Federal Government. You are retiring and with you the entire Federal Government!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e5931	Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e5953	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciated spectators here on the gallery and TV screens! I would like to return to the title of today's current hour, which is: “400 000 unemployed, social system non-financial – protection for persecuted but no place for economic refugees” I have done just as much as many of my previous speakers, I think the title of this current hour is very, very unscrupulous. I consider this mixture of three topics on the challenges of the future, each of which is an important issue in itself, to be truly unscrupulous. I do not think it is useful at all to deal with the problems we have in these areas. It will not solve the problem of fighting unemployment, it will not solve the problem of having to accommodate asylum seekers properly, nor will it change the fact that we need to secure our social system. I know the opposition has other tasks and other rules of play, but I am convinced that there are issues where political strategies have not lost anything, but to which one should also find solutions together across party borders. Unemployment, the preservation of the social state and asylum policy simply belong to it for me. It's about people, it's about fates, and it's about the responsibility we all have as politicians. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Playing each other helps nothing from my point of view. It does not help people, and it does not help us in politics either. It does not, above all, help, as Mr Dietrich said, to help create a social climate, to reduce social fears. On the contrary, I am convinced, with such titles, with such current hours, that the gap is still deepening, and it will become increasingly difficult for us to accommodate the asylum seekers, people who flee from war and repression. I think it is really unworthy of an Austrian rule of law – that has already been said sometime today – and I would like to stress at this point: Even if they are economic refugees, economic refugees are also people who simply want to live better. I think anyone seeking protection – including those people looking for protection – has the right to a proper asylum procedure. If Mr Belakovich-Jenewein says that 70 per cent of all people are refugees, I would like to ask you, Mrs Colleague: How do you want? Do you filter this out without giving people a proper asylum procedure? [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: We don't need an asylum procedure!]] [[Abg. Darmann: Please go, but this is your responsibility!]] – I think that is our job, Mrs Belakovich-Jenewein! [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Sorry, that's not my numbers! That's the official numbers!]] Yes, it is true that we have to come against tugs, that is not at all a question, but I am convinced that people seeking protection cannot be criminalised, and this is always done in your debates, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ. [[Abg. Darmann: We must not support the European Union with mistakes, that is crazy!]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: You must listen!]] – I am really listening to you, and sometimes I am hurt by what you say, Mrs Colleague, even today’s statements were very limited! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[New call of the abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] I just want to point out that 52 million people worldwide are on the run, the UNHCR has said this in its report: 52 million people! And four-fifths of these people are in the neighbouring countries from which people have fled. “Only” – under quotations – 600,000 people are looking for protection in Europe. I think Europe must be able to accommodate these 600,000 people and find a proper system where you can... – I know the fears and concerns already, Mr. Colleague, really, but nevertheless I do not think it makes sense to play against each other. [[Abg. Darmann: What refusal of reality leads to such statements?]] Mrs Minister, with all due respect, I have to put this to you today: I am convinced that even for Austria it is unworthy if we have tent cities. That doesn't help anyone, it's agitating even more fears, that's even more emotion. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fekter.]] – Honestly, Mrs Fekter, it is! – It’s just that tent cities suggest images in the minds of people, and I mean that they just don’t have to be in Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Greens.]] I also believe that it was not right, as Mr Scherak said, to stop an asylum. Whatever that was, it was in the media. Mrs Minister, the Committee on the Interior and the Committee on Human Rights You said that we must ensure that there are rapid asylum procedures. And then you say that asylum procedures should be stopped. That's something diametrically. I think you are a representative of a Christian-social party, and we should play the strategic games on this issue and find a solution together: a human and one that actually reflects the rule of law of Austria. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Greens.]] One word still – I have so little time again – to finance the social state, because that is also the subject of today's hour. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Korun has just mentioned: The social state can be financed, and I am convinced of that. [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] We just have to do it and finally get to the things where they belong. We need a value-added levy, 100 percent! [[Abg. Fekter: Again a tax, that's great!]] – This is not a grip on the moth chest, but it is a law of justice, a law of the hour. [[Abg. Wheeler: Now I know why you are no longer elected!]] . We need the fight against tax evasion, and we also need wealth-related taxes, ladies and gentlemen, if we want our social state to be able to maintain this status that we now have and that we all want.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e6134	Mrs Fekter is speaking next time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e6155	Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Madam President. Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig, again a new tax from social democracy! – To this end: No, thank you! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The Minister for the Interior has mentioned what measures are being put forward as a priority: fighting the tow, preventing the abuse of the asylum system, and economic refugees cannot simply immigrate, but are being relocated. Yesterday there was a refugee plane in Kosovo, 22 Kosovaren were returned to this safe state by plane. All the media were invited to report on it so that people not only see images of those who come in, but also of how we keep the system so safe that it works even further. No medium has reported that it is also being postponed. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, it is the people who want to know how it works! [[call to the FPÖ.]] – Therefore, it was irrelevant that no report was made about it. That's why I mention it now. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We must take the Austrian population seriously. There are considerable fears. [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: You're agitating the fears!]] – We also need to keep an eye on the ability to accept. There is fear of alienation, fear that many will come. The pictures in the media, on television, show these fears, these fears startle. We must listen to the population and then explain the facts. Not everyone who articulates these fears is a hetzer, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. New builder: Just like the pühringer!]] – If people have fears, we have to take this seriously. The ability to accept Traiskirchen and Thalham has been exceeded. I've been in the district and I've been in charge of Thalham for 25 years. I take the fears of the people there, ladies and gentlemen, seriously. The reception capacity of these first recording centres and the surrounding places is exceeded. I understand the population that it demands from politics that we take steps. Therefore, it is urgently necessary to create smaller units, to distribute accommodation units to all districts in Austria, to relieve mass quarters and to dismantle the tent cities. [[Abg. Darmann: There can't be as many small quarters as you have to because of your asylum policy!]] But let me also say the following: I'd be better off than we would and people would have to stay at home entrances, under the bridge or outdoors. This has prevented the Minister of the Interior! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The refugee storm has risen massively since the previous year. 15 000 new accommodation has already been created, but it is too little. Many communities take up families and make their solidarity contribution. It works in the small units, and therefore also thanks to the mayors and mayors, to the quarterers, to the caretakers and to those who seek the integration of these refugees. That is also to be mentioned! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Unfortunately, there is a very uneven distribution – uneven in Europe, uneven in the federal states and uneven in the districts. It is therefore necessary to continue to fight for an EU quota, and thank you, Mrs Minister. It is necessary to relieve the mass quarters that now carry the largest backpack. And it is also necessary for federal and state governments to coordinate together. The issue of debt allocations is not addressed.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e6255	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Haider. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e6276	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig, there is no right to illegal immigration! [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Hagen.]] Otherwise, we cannot call this development. 192 000 asylum applications have existed between 2004 and 2014, and 146 000 of them have been legally rejected by Austrian courts – 80 percent of which are rejected. I hope that we can question one thing, namely the integrity of the Austrian courts, which are certainly independent and, on the basis of our legal situation, check whether there is a cause for persecution or not. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the Stronach team.]] That is, 80 percent of asylum seekers who have no asylum grounds apply and take away places from those who are really persecuted. – This has to be stressed once again. But you have not yet been willing to stop it. If you say, Mr Pendl, there are now more real refugees of war, for example from Syria, who come to us, then this is only partly true, because the rejection rate is still between 60 and 70 percent. This year, 70 000 asylum applications are expected, i.e. some 20 000 to 25 000 of them are granted the right to asylum. That is all right, we have repeatedly experienced in our history that Austria has provided exemplary neighbourhood assistance in crisis situations, in conflicts. There is nothing to blame the Austrians at all. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, since the end of the Second World War, 1.3 million people have been admitted to Austria – with a total population of 8 million now. This is a very large number of people who have found a new home here. There is nothing to predict to the Austrians at all, that was always our responsibility, especially in the area of neighbourhood assistance. If some 25 000 asylum seekers now receive a positive notice from these 70 000 asylum seekers, this also means that about 45 000 to 50 000 will receive a negative notice that there is no reason for asylum among these people. And that is where the problem begins, ladies and gentlemen. We are dealing here with an abuse of the asylum system. It doesn't matter to deny that. We have asylum seekers, who do not come to us for reasons of persecution, but for purely economic reasons. We know that today, in Africa, 100 to 250 million people intend to come to Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a modern international migration. These are dimensions that European societies will not stand. That's what we're saying to the liberals: No way! No way, just as the Australians have said, just as it shows Australia. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig.]] Yes, Mrs. Colleague, if someone tries to get to Austria illegally, he must be clear: You've played every right with that, you're not coming in from us illegally. That must be the message! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What we need is a reverse of the signals, ladies and gentlemen. The EU is currently signaling: Once you've done it to us, you can stay there; no one will be sent back. This signal is a fatal one, it's a false one. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: Where did you get this?]] – This signal only plays the international tow straps, the murderous tow straps in the hands. Of course, it is our duty, for humanitarian reasons alone, to help the people who have gone into the hands of these murderous tugs when they are in distress. But then it is also our duty to bring our own societies back to where they made their journey to Africa. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is why we already need asylum centres and humanitarian care stations in Africa to ensure this. No way – that must be the message! Since the Dublin-III agreement is in fact no longer valid, a call must be made quite clearly: Immediate reintroduction of border controls – as decided by the Upper Austrian Government on the suggestion of the FPÖ. It is up to you, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP and my dear Minister of the Interior, to do what you can. Your own colleagues say: With us, economic refugees have no place – and no job at all!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e6365	Next, Mrs Mag. Schwentner speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e6393	Madam President. Minister of Finance! Dear viewers! What we are experiencing here in this present hour may perhaps be an expression of the helplessness of some in this House. For me, however, it is also a low point in Parliament – a low point in these seven years in which I am now in the National Council; a low point of humanity, as I have not yet experienced it. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Perhaps the title of this current hour is already an expression of helplessness if one writes: Unemployed, non-functioning social system – I didn't notice it at all – refugees and economic refugees. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: But that's not a good sign that you don't know that!]] That's already an expression of the fact that you're just throwing everything into a pot that's kind of messed up and is not even able to differentiate. Just as my colleague Alev Korun has said: that there are challenges that actually exist, such as challenges in the labour market – we have many unemployed and big problems that we have to address and solve together – and challenges that are global in nature and that result in wars that cause people to come here. I find it remarkable that a lot of people sit inside, who know exactly why people are illegal, and want to determine who a refugee and who is an economic refugee. [[Abg. Honey, what else!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] How presumptuous! Are you the better asylum authority, like all my previous speakers? [[Abg. Darmann: The Greens should also accept the rule of law! Laws apparently do not apply to the Greens! Where are we going?- Oh, my God!]] That's an inconceivable presumption! [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] I would therefore like to refer to a matter which has remained particularly hanging – in addition to the unscrupulous statement made by Mr Belakovich-Jenewein, whom I do not want to repeat – on those with the phone. In my previous job at the Caritas, I have had a lot to do with asylum seekers and asylum seekers. [[New calls to the FPÖ.]] All these asylum seekers and asylum seekers had a mobile phone. I'm telling you why: This cell phone is next to what they still have on the body, the last one they have, and the last one to contact the outside world, on the ability to communicate. I find it very embarrassing to interpret that in any other way – extremely embarrassing! [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I would really like us to be able to discuss the challenges we face in this country in the proper seriousness and not to let ourselves be driven by a more and more serious attitude towards the ÖVP, which I look into. [[Abg. Schönegger keeps a taferl in height with the title “Solidarity Now! ”]] – Yes, solidarity now, but please with those who need it – and not with the FPÖ, Mr. von der ÖVP! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Holzinger.]] [[Abg. Darmann: Nobody cares more about Austria than we do!]] [[Abg. Fekter: please!]] Don't “please”! What is to be said by ministers, who are simply beginning to say things, for example, as regards family aid, the idea according to the principle of origin? – I would ask that if such rapid shots happen, you also think about what it would mean in the end. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Höbart and Mr Steinbichler.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Does that mean abolishing the principle of equality? Does this mean that people are differentiated and treated differently? Does this mean a new solution to family aid? [[Abg. Fekter: You don't take people seriously!]] [[Call the FPÖ: Such a fool!]] Then we will discuss this proposal in all seriousness and until the end. But don't shoot right all the time: It's no use to you! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Holzinger.]] [[Abg. Fetter: Green Dreamers!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] It's not worth anything to you! This makes me very concerned, honestly, that you are no longer able to really look at the people in Traiskirchen – if you were already in Traiskirchen. [[Abg. Höbart: You probably haven't yet! I'm there every day!]] That is why I think it is very important for colleagues like Alev Korun and Julian Schmid to go, sit on the street and talk to people. So they learn stories of escape as well as the reasons why people came here. [[Abg. Where is the solution?]] I find it quite remarkable that someone like Sepp Schellhorn is sitting in the National Council – he's just not there – who just got past the mayor of Bad Gastein and took up refugees. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] All that he has told him about how these people were "delivered" to him – he said, like boxes of beer, what he knows as a gastronomy – that really hurts me to read such statements from him. [[Abg. Darmann: You don't care what your own people think!]] We should all work on this: How we treat the people who come here humanly. That's what I wish! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e6637	Next, Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e6658	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I passed the ÖVP headquarters a few days ago, and I noticed a flag that reads: “Listen. Copy that. Implementation.” – Mrs. Federal Minister, I listened to you earlier, I didn’t understand you and didn’t see where you were doing something. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Steinhauser: This is your problem!]] I would like to continue. Mrs Bundesminister, you say here that unemployment against refugees is unscrupulous. I read an article from the “Vorarlberger Nachrichten” yesterday: “At least 27 million euros were paid in 2014 in the form of demand-oriented minimum security. () The system is currently required because of the many refugees whose recognition is sometimes very rapid. Most of them are slipping into minimum security immediately, because they are not yet available on the labour market due to lack of language skills.” Dear ladies and gentlemen of the “greens”, do you know who said that? – Ms. Katharina Wiesflecker, green councillor in Vorarlberg, said that. Ladies and gentlemen, you have the proof! Mrs Schwentner, because you said earlier that this has nothing to do with all of this: Here you have the evidence black on white! [[The speaker shall keep a copy of the said article up to date.]] Her country councillor confirms what we want to address in our current hour. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team, as well as with representatives of the FPÖ.]] Take note of this! This double game of the Greens is really no longer tolerable! Ladies and gentlemen, I was very attentive yesterday – we were in Traiskirchen – to look at the “report” where refugee problems have also been discussed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinhauser]] I've seen this dentist there who doesn't get a job, because, of course, he doesn't have the language yet – that's not a topic at all, that would be a qualified immigration, so I have no problem at all. But it contradicts what your social councillor says. Of course, the ORF has already done a bit of fine dyeing. Once you talk to the responsible ones in Traiskirchen – we did so yesterday with various institutions – you will also learn that many people who now come as refugees from different war zones come for economic reasons. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Steinhauser.]] You can remember that a few weeks ago I presented three examples – three interviews on Sicily, made by a serious newspaper – in a urgent request on this subject. These are economic interests that these people bring here. That's fact! When we talked to those responsible outside, we were told something that also impressed me: If you can feed a six-member family in Afghanistan with 15 € per month, then the 40 € pocket money these people get from the state – the food and accommodation is of course free – is a nice money. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig.]] The responsible person has explained to us that many send these funds or half of them to Afghanistan so that the family can live there. So this is a good investment for the family when someone comes to Austria by means of tow. What he said: There is no single person who has carried himself through to Austria, because this is bad for the tow business – this is even prevented by them. The fact is, everyone who comes here has been dragged. We create by making these conditions in such a way that these people can tell of positive things – which come with false hopes, mean, milk and honey flow in Austria, who, of course, see the beautiful cars we have, and want to have them all – an incentive for them to come here. And, of course, this is a business that the Mafia is doing. I said it once at a committee meeting and I would have almost received a call for an order from Mr Amon – but I then received the confirmation: These NGOs are very conscious of this to be able to employ their people. I said at the time that the Green helpers were these tugs, and I repeat that here again. You even confirmed this at the committee meeting, Mrs Korun. Ask colleagues Amon! That's fact. [[Abg. Steinhauser: This is the accusation of a criminal offence!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Korun.]] Now I'll tell you something more about the phones, ladies and gentlemen. On Sunday I was at an early stage and I heard something at the table opposite that I got such ears, because it was about the phones. A woman told me that money was collected for asylum seekers' children at school in Hörbranz, my home community. The children should have given their pocket money, but they refused to give it up. When the teacher asked why they didn't want to donate, they said that the girl had a new phone than she had from the asylum seekers for whom the money was intended. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kucharovich.]] That's what gave me to think. If, as I saw yesterday in Traiskirchen, everyone has a mobile phone – everyone has a new model – then you have to ask themselves how far help and solidarity can go with our expensive tax money. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinhauser]] [[Intervocations with SPÖ and Greens.]] We don't need to let anyone die, we can look after people, of course, but the question is always the way. Making advertising abroad so that everyone comes to us, that's the wrong way!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e6801	Next, Mr Magistrate. Loacker's word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e6823	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! In Syria, villages are bombarded – and we discuss this at the level of: Who's got a cell phone?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations with NEOS, SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens.]] Only if you look at the headline of this current hour – “400 000 unemployed, social system not financially funded – protection for persecuted but no place for economic refugees” – will the topics be mixed in a way that is intellectually only possible as an expression! [[We welcome the NEOS and the representatives of SPÖ and Greens.]] This suggests that the asylum seekers take away a job from anyone else, and that they should not work with us at all. Even if you assume – I take that from your headline and the speeches – that the social system cannot carry it, then you have to look at the specific figures, because Austria spends €96 billion each year on the social system and € 200 million for the basic supply of asylum seekers. - It must then be sheltered. If our social system has a financial problem, other government errors are responsible, but certainly not the number of asylum seekers. What the situation is showing today is that the Federal Government is completely overwhelmed. I'm totally right about the critics. I also give the right to those who blame the ÖVP for voting in the choir of the right-wing hetzers, because what came short of you, Mrs. Federal Minister, and the Minister for Integration, has actually only poured oil into the fire and water on the mills of the FPÖ propaganda! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Fekter: You don't take people seriously!]] I take the people seriously, but, Mrs Fekter, it does not help if we find beautiful words here and your ÖVP mayors signal to the local citizens that asylum seekers in the village would be an advantage. These are your party friends who are everywhere in the small villages – yes, your mayors say that... [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Rädler: Who says that?]] Mr Rädler, you are the mayor yourself, and once you call your colleagues, which is partly done for a policy! [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] I take the mayor of Alberschwend, colleague Schwarzmann, positive, but a lot of others from your couleur are bad examples. Look what Sepp Schellhorn experienced! [[Congratulation with NEOS, SPÖ and Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stroll.]] If we already want to strain the focus on the labour market and if we believe – as the Katharina Wiesflecker in Vorarlberg claims – that asylum seekers, if they have an asylum status, become a problem for minimum security, then we have to ask ourselves why this is so at all. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: That's not true! She didn't say that!]] If they are forced not to work if they do not receive German courses because we do not make this resource available, it is logical that, once they have the right to stay, because of the long unemployment they cannot work because if someone has been away from the labour market too long, he finds it much harder again. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: After that you can work!]] If we do not make sure that they learn German properly when they are there, then we do not put the bridge to the labour market at all. We ourselves have responsibility for the fact that, at the end of the day, people who have the right to stay are not resident in the labour market and are subject to minimum security. Austria has an obligation to open the labour market for asylum seekers and to implement an EU directive on this subject, which you, Mrs Minister, have agreed to even in the Council. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Let's open for everyone!]] ==References== We still have time for this on July. We are in danger of entering a infringement procedure. You can then explain to us why you do not implement a directive that you yourself have decided. This is a humanitarian and a human need to give people the self-esteem that you get when you can and can work. Panic mache is not in place, we have to look for solutions!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e6964	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[10:36:44]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e6986	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[10:37:30]] Request for a brief debate on the response to the question 4144/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e7130	Before entering the agenda, I shall inform you that the request made pursuant to § 92 of the Rules of Procedure is to have a brief debate on the reply to Question 4316/J by Mr Mag. Christiane Brunner, colleagues in relation to the removal and dismantling of the Energy Efficiency Act by the Federal Minister for Science, Research and Economics. This brief debate takes place in accordance with § 57a para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure after completion of the agenda, but not later than 15 a.m. [[10:37:36]] Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e7157	I would also like to say that Members Dr Strolz, ladies and gentlemen, have asked the Constitutional Committee to report on Mr Strache's request 65/A to the House. ==References== In addition, this is the case of five delegates, according to § 43 para. 3 the request made by the Rules of Procedure to hold a brief debate on this request for a time limit. This brief debate will take place following the debate on the reply to the question, and the vote on the request for a deadline will take place after the end of this debate. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e7182	The debate on points 2 to 9, 10 to 12, 13 to 16 and 18 and 19 of the agenda is proposed. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. Then let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e7206	A consensus was reached between the members of the presidential conference on the duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day block time of 6.5 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ and ÖVP per 88 minutes, FPÖ 81 minutes, Green 68 minutes as well as STRONACH and NEOS each 36 minutes. According to § 57 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure shall be the speaking time for the entire agenda of those Members who do not belong to a club within 18 minutes of this Decision. We shall now proceed to the vote on the speaking time just presented. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign in this regard. – This is unanimously accepted. [[10:39:47]] 1. Point Selecting a folder
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e7245	We're now on the 1st. Agenda item. In view of the withdrawal of Mr Mario Kunasek from the National Council, the choice of a folder must be made. The election proposal of the parliamentary club of the Freemans is on MMMag. Dr. Axel Kassinger. Since there is only one election proposal, I will be in accordance with § 87 para. 7 in conjunction with § 66 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure shall not vote against them, but shall be cast off from the seats by raising them. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the election, and I shall seek the approval of those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the election proposal of the parliamentary club of the Free Trade Unions. – This is unanimously accepted. That is what Mr MMMag is saying. Dr. Axel Kassinger has been selected as a folder. [[General condolences.]] [[10:40:52]] 2. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government template (587, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Labour Market Policy Financing Act (633 d. B.) 3rd. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment 912/A(E) by Mrs Herbert Kickl, colleagues on the Rules of Procedure of the Pendler Regulation for our employees (634d.b.) 4. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 1146/A(E) by Mr Mag. Birgit Schatz, Colleagues and Colleagues with regard to legal entitlement to education and qualification (education account) (635 d.e.c.) 5. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 1133/A by Mr Mag. Birgit Schatz, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law with which the General Civil Code (ABGB), as last amended by BGBl. 35/2015, amended (636 d.a.) 6. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 1144/A(E) by Mr Mag. Birgit Schatz, Colleagues and Colleagues concerning minimum wage rates for the CV-less area in order to ensure the existence of self-employed workers (637 d.e.c.) 7. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 1147/A(E) by Mr Mag. Judith Schwentner, colleagues on ensuring minimum standards of demand-oriented minimum security (638 d.b.) 8. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on motions for resolutions 1083/A(E) by Mr Mag. Gerald Loacker, colleagues on re-training opportunities for workers with health-related occupations (639 d.a.) 9. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 1160/A(E) by Mr Mag. Gerald Loacker, colleagues on the introduction of a continuing training account (640 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e7404	We now come to points 2 to 9 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. I welcome Mr. Hundstorfer. First of all, Mrs. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein has been reported. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e7434	Madam President. Federal Minister! I would like to say one thing to you, Mrs Schwentner, very briefly at the current hour: You claimed here that I had criticized anything with phones from asylum seekers. – That does not correspond to the facts that I have not even taken that word into my mouth. I would ask you to read this in the Minutes! That's not all right. Obviously, they are not able to listen meaningfully. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But now to the social debate. Today we have a government template, namely a federal law that amends the Labour Market Policy Finance Act, in negotiation, in which it is in principle a matter of granting special measures, or even more, to the group of unemployed, over 50, in particular. This is very useful because we know that unemployment is exploding in Austria. Unfortunately, it has been exploding God for years, and unfortunately it is not an end in sight. We have the highest unemployment rate in the Second Republic, and of course older workers are particularly affected. We can read this from the statistics. There is therefore no question at all that we will accept this draft law. However, Mr Federal Minister, I believe that this will not be enough in view of the diversity of labour market problems. For years, for example, in some sectors, particularly affected, we have called for a sectoral closure of the labour market. This would make sense, for example, for the construction industry – now only as an example – in which there is a particularly high rise in unemployment. It is also true that the opening of the labour market is particularly pressing from the eastern EU countries to Austria, which is why we have seen a particularly strong increase in the Eastern European group. I will now be careful to call numbers, because the numbers you have sent us in a written answer to the question are from the date of the year 31. December, and – we are already used to it, Mr. Federal Minister – you will be speaking again in your speech about the “currently”. We know that every time social debate is in Parliament, unemployment is "returning" – and the next day is going on again. I don't want to let myself in on this little game. But we see on the basis of the requests that are not dated today, but are just a little behind: We have a particularly strong increase in unemployment, especially in the Eastern European group, but also in those of third-country nationals. Against this background, Mr Federal Minister, I think it is very worrying that you are always considering making the labour market accessible to asylum seekers. We have just heard in the current hour, for this day it is expected that up to 70 000 people will apply for asylum in Austria. I do not know how to accommodate them on the labour market. I wonder how you want to do this. You yourself said in the “press hour” in May that we already have 16 000 unemployed asylum seekers in Austria. I emphasize: 16,000! In other words, there will be no jobs for the asylum seekers, even if you would like to. They have gradually opened up the labour market more and more in recent years. I am quite honest with you, Mr Federal Minister, as a member of an opposition party, I could say now, of course, that is very nice, but as a citizen and a politician, I must honestly tell you that you are endangering the labour market, including social peace in the future, and that is why you are also ready to resign. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I don't think that makes sense. I know you're still waiting until 12. October, until the day after the Vienna election, so to speak. They also have willing support from parts of the EIA, especially the Industrial Union, which is already looking forward to having cheap workers. We see that there is exactly this displacement competition, especially in the area of migrants who have been with us for a long time. This is also one of the reasons why unemployment is rising, particularly in the field of foreigners, because these are being pushed away by new, even cheaper ones. I know, Minister, that you will come right now with your wage and social dumping law, which is so great and works so great. That is what we decided five years ago, and at that time you explained to us that this was the banger, so that you would deal with the problem. A year ago we had to reform it – obviously it was not so great. In the context of the forthcoming tax reform, you have proudly explained to us that counter-financing will reach 1.9 billion by preventing undeclared work. So something doesn't fit together right now. Either this wage and social dumping law doesn't work at all or it works so great or you don't know it yourself. The truth is: You decide a law, and that may well be meant – I don't want you to think now that you didn't mean it well – but the problem is: It must be executed by the officials of the financial police who are at the same time starved by the Ministry of Finance. That's the main problem. You can make the best laws if you don't execute them, they're pointless. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Federal Minister! We will, of course, agree with this government proposal, but I believe that it would be useful – and there will finally be a rethinking with you – to put in place other measures for the labour market. Even if you consider it unorthodox or all of this to be evil, you will not get over it, because we see what is happening in front of the borders of Austria, we see that millions of people want to come to Austria or Europe, push on to the labour market: We won't do that! Mr Federal Minister, I would be pleased if you would today make a confession that, after the Vienna election, you do not open the labour market for asylum seekers! That would be something I'd take from you. Otherwise, ladies and gentlemen, I tell you quite honestly, this labour market will be opened after the Vienna election. You're still holding tight now to save what's to save.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e7530	The next item is the speech by Mr Muchich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e7552	Thank you very much, Madam President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Before I take a position on the government template labour market policy financing law some words on the current situation on the labour market. I think that what some speakers have said in the current hour here is really very worrying. I think it is a shame to try to play out people seeking work against refugees of war when attempts are being made to raise the population and stir it up, perhaps to go populist on to vote. [[In the case of the SPÖ, representatives of the ÖVP and the Agg. Loacker]] [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] The fact is: apples have clearly been confused with pears, and this is not fair to those people who are affected by this situation. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now on the subject of labour market. – Fact is – and you know, I address the problems very openly, sometimes too open in my ranks –: We have problems in the labour market, that is right. The situation is very clear: There are more people in Europe, there are more people in Austria looking for a job than there is work, and as long as economic activity in Europe weakens, as long as Austria does not attract in the economy, we will have these problems. The consequences are known to you: Competition is getting tighter, not only among entrepreneurs, but also among workers, wage dumping, social dumping, tax fraud, under-remuneration increases, cheap workers are becoming by Austrian clients in Austria, who have been successful from EU countries accordingly. The European Union – the European Commission’s direct response – is also not always very helpful when it comes to combating unemployment when it comes to the recent decision taken in Riga, with which the European Commission forces the IGGs against the votes of Austria in a majority way and thus legalizes letterbox companies. The consequences: The fear of the workplace is increasing. We would be much better off if all those who criticise this situation would also make really sensible proposals to reduce unemployment. It will not be enough, and it will not be possible at all to let the barriers down, to close the borders, to extract the “foreigners!” patrols, so that we do not secure Austria’s economic location. Austria is an export country. Over a million people are dependent on exports to the European Union with their jobs, and that is not the right example. But the fact is: Where there are problems – and I am unfortunately coming from such an industry; this is, among other things, the construction industry – we need further measures, but legal measures to counter competition. We need to turn together on those screws which allow this fairness to be regained. The measures we propose are known to you. It is about introducing further measures in the field of social fraud. The Federal Minister will assign to the Committee a government paper which we will discuss and adopt before the summer in Parliament in order to continue in the fight against social fraud and, accordingly, to tighten the screws in order to achieve fairness. But we also need this economic package in the field of housing. Perhaps we can still make an initiative proposal with the ÖVP until tomorrow concerning a novel to the Federal Procurement Act. On the Government template concerning labour market policy financing law: I thank you for receiving broad support from this government template. It is an important step in helping all those people who are over 50 years old and over six months unemployed and who have no or only very little chance of finding a job. With the increase of €250 million from unemployment insurance in 2016 and 2017, further measures and projects can be promoted to give these people a chance to get back into employment. It is also important for the economy to play its part and for the economy to give these people the opportunity to return to the labour market. Very positive mention is made of the increase in funds in the short-term work from 2016 to 2019 by up to €20 million respectively. We all know from the financial crisis in 2009/2010 that with the short work model we were able to mitigate many fates accordingly by keeping people in the job and not becoming unemployed. That is why this is also an important measure, an important step towards combating unemployment. I thank all those who have contributed. Thank you very much, Minister of State, for submitting this government proposal. I really hope for a broad agreement. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e7639	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Honey. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e7660	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Financial crisis, economic crisis, labour market crisis, 420 000 unemployed, the forecasts say that it might be a little better at the earliest in 2017. Mr Muchitsch said that the Austrian economy is strongly export-oriented, with the collapse of 2009 we got a massive problem. The World Bank says that the world economic crisis will not help us get the necessary growth to create the turnaround on the labour market. That means that, as we all know, what remains is the internal demand, the consumption of people living in Austria, working here and spending the money here. But it doesn't look very good either. They all know that we have lost real wages in the middle and lower income groups in recent years. That is, despite continuous wage increases, our tax and tax system has led to a reduction in the purchase of the money you get. On this point, the tax reform should begin, so it has been announced. More net of gross was said, I think. However, the point is that the WIFO has calculated that the tax reform, which costs us €5 billion, will bring only 0.1 percent economic growth, so far too little to have a positive impact on unemployment in the sense of economic growth. That's the way it is. Ladies and gentlemen! Overall, I am simply not satisfied with the government's approach to economic policy, location policy, labour market policy. There is no clear strategy, there is too little what is being done, and we are losing more and more precious time. Mr. Minister Hundstorfer, one thing I must say to you: I've been accompanying you for a few years now, and I've learned to appreciate you in these years. It was always possible to explain problems with you, to develop a common problem view, and one had the feeling, even if you did not immediately accept proposals that you would accept the problem. But that has changed. This has changed over the last two years, and I wonder why. I understand that it is frustrating to deal with these crises, that it is frustrating to be in a coalition with the ÖVP, that I can understand, ladies and gentlemen, but it cannot be that as a government you are no longer in this situation more than what we have in front of us today as a government template. [[Hello-Rufe at the ÖVP]] – Yeah, well, we're gonna agree, but it's just not enough. Ladies and gentlemen – Mr Muchitsch has already said this – it is our duty as an opposition to point out again and again where it is necessary to take reforms to make proposals. And we are making these proposals! Today we also have applications which say the direction in which it has to go. On the one hand, this concerns working time. Mr Minister, you tell me that working time is not an issue, not even with the social partners. I am pleased to hear something different from the trade unions. They now go beyond the sixth week of holiday when it comes to the reduction of working time. - Well, that's what we have to stick to! The theme of the division of working time is one of the most important labour market policy issues of the future. [[Complementary of the Abg. Moser and the SPÖ representatives.]] We all know that the level of paid hours has been falling continuously for the last ten years. It is becoming less and less what is offered in paid work. At the same time, the labour force potential, i.e. the people who want to work, is becoming more and more. We can only deal with this situation in such a way that we distribute the work differently; if not, we have constantly rising unemployment rates that cost us a lot of money. The division of working time is a key element in shaping the labour market of the future. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Holzinger.]] I cannot understand why, above all, the EIA, the economy, which is so blocked and is not even ready for discussion. It is clear that reducing working time is a challenge, but it is about shaping the challenge. We need to talk about what is necessary. The measure of working time is only an organisational unit. If it's 60 hours, it's 48, it's 40, it's 38,5, is it 35? This is a unit – the changeover is the challenge that we need to create together, so that it is possible! [[Abg. Hammer: Completely non-reality!]] [[Abg. Deimek: Increase to 45!]] That's the only way it can work! Please overcome You're this blocking strategy! The second major point on which we have proposals is related to internal demand. I have already said that purchasing power, especially medium and lower incomes, has not been substantially strengthened by the collective reform, tax reform, much too little to give impetus to growth. We must do something in the field of lowest incomes. The European Union has already pointed out to us that we have a massive problem here, ladies and gentlemen; only you do not believe us! 25 percent of the workers in Austria earn less than € 1,500 at a full-time job, 50 percent of the workers inside. In total, there are 500 000 employees who earn less than €1500 gross, which is about €1 156 net. That's not all right, that's just not all right! And if you say of the ÖVP that higher wages in this area endanger the location – dessiedelung et cetera – I reply: Yesterday, the IMF, the International Monetary Fund, announced a change of course in this area, which was reported in the media yesterday. It has become apparent that when we put on growth, we have to put up with the lowest 20 percent of income, so it doesn't help us to have more wealth, more and more rich, but when it comes to growth, we have to start with the lower 20 percent. Only that brings something! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We from the Greens have been trying for years to convince you that a minimum wage law would be the right way. All right, we're not going through this politically, especially because the union says: We do this with the collective agreements!, although we have collective agreements, set the minimum wages below €1500. Okay, we're not coming any further, so let's make a next proposal and say: Let us take care of the areas not covered by the collective agreements! In concrete terms, we want a minimum wage in this area to be set by the Federal Association Office – the Federal Association Office, which is occupied by social partners. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] What about you in the debate? – Mrs Minzig, who apparently did not know each other, said: Let us leave this to the social partners. – If there is no collective agreement? - Well, please! We set up a social partners' body. You have not even dealt with the proposal! [[Abg. Little: That's where you misunderstand me! You just need to be careful!]] The SPÖ says: We don't want a law, we don't want a law! – Yes, we want to give it to a socially-occupied body anyway. They do not even seriously discuss proposals that are really long and well thought out with many experts. I think this is very unfortunate. Ladies and gentlemen, on the third point, on which we have also tabled a request, we are dealing with labour market policy in relation to job-seekers. First of all, I would like to say: It is clear that more and more unemployed people need more money for labour market policy, otherwise this cannot work, regardless of which system is built on it. We need more resources for active and active labour market policies. That's perfectly clear, but then we have to look at what happens to this money. In this respect, we have a proposal, a four-point catalogue, where we need to start. This is first of all in the consultation of job-seekers. That takes more time than seven minutes per person. The consultation shall be carried out by an independent body which is not subject to the AMS on a wise basis. It really needs the perspective development for the job-seekers and not just a resolution in the system. Second point: We need a right to education. I am delighted when the right to training for young people in 2016 may really come, but we Greens ask: Why only for young people? – A 35-year-old, 40-year-old auxiliary worker should still have the right to complete his training so as to get a real chance on the labour market. The third point is a very important one: Instead of an assigned course, we want an educational account for job-seekers. Each job seeker should be certified from a catalogue of measures, which are, so to speak, qualified, where one says: Yes, that really brings something!, can choose, can decide for yourself: That's the right thing for me now! – I believe that this would be much more efficient than the current system. Ladies and gentlemen, what does the SPÖ say about this large package of proposals? – There is advice at the AMS. – And the ÖVP says we have no money for that anyway. – This is how this government deals with labour market policy issues for the future! Mr Muchitsch, you say we need proposals. . We make proposals, but there is just too little debate about it. There is no debate, there are no proposals from you that are really large. – I say to you: It just can't go on like this! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Moser.]] Now we are waiting for the labour market summit – announced for weeks, already postponed again. Did anyone get an invitation? – At the beginning of July he will take place. Who will be there? The old-known men: the President of IV, the Chamber of Commerce, the President of the ÖGB, the President of the Chamber of Workers, the Board of Directors of the AMS, perhaps someone else from the national conference – and that was it: a round of gentlemen, closed, and they will be supercreating the future labour market. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope to see another future policy for Austria. EC internal market, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary These are our proposals! We'll do a lot more. We will not stop working constructively on the future of our country, and hope that the government will finally do the same. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e7794	Mr Wöginger, before I give you the floor, I would just like to say something. I had the Stenographical Protocol of Mr Scherak's speech come out of the current hour's debate because I could not clearly assign an interlocutory call. However, since the minutes of this debate are now available to me, I shall give a call for an order to Mr Radler for the interlocutory call “Oligarchsöldner!”. [[Congratulations with Greens, NEOS and Team Stronach.]] [[Abg. Stroll: Last-class! Time and again, last-class!]] The next item is Mr Wöginger's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e7842	Madam President. Federal Minister! My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen! So, my colleague, honey: First: It is being debated. Secondly, Yes, there are different opinions on your requests, and if you criticize my colleague, I would like to point this out to you. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] And to your approach as regards the statutes in collective agreements – I don't know if you get that even if you already criticize the fact that from your point of view too little is being done –: It is constantly set in the Federal Association Office – constantly! I think we're on a very good path here, and that's exactly what you're talking about. This is actually going to be much better week by week, month by month, because many collective agreements are set up. That is why I do not understand the problem that you are repeatedly discussing. According to the motto “Daily Greetings the Murmeltier” we get the same applications again and again. [[Abg. Honey:... why then the low-paid rates! ... then the people when you've got everything under control? Well, say something! Why do people earn 1 500 €, sometimes less, for full-time?- Oh, my God!]] You have the opportunity to get out of here. You have now, I think, spoken 10 minutes long. There is no monologue, there is a Rules of Procedure, and that is what you too have to stick to, Mrs Colleague. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are facing a challenge on the labour market. Although we have rising employment, we also face rising unemployment. We're in third place at 5.6 percent. 330 000 people are looking for work, 65 000 are in training. The average stay is 113 days. It is also not true that all are unemployed for years, the labour market has become very mobile. You have also ruled out a point, Mrs. Schatz: We decide here a large package of labour market funds for older people, for over 50 years of age, who are unemployed for more than six months. This you wipe with a stroke, with a dash away, you don't even mention it in the course of the debate. We'll mention it. [[Abg. Honey: Yes! I said that's good, too!]] I also think it really makes sense and useful that we help this group. Why? – Because these people have more difficulty finding their way back to the labour market. [[Abg. Honey: Yes, you say...! Make a...!]] The length of residence there is three times as long as the other age groups, and that is why, in addition to all unemployed people, especially those over 50 years old, our solidarity and our recognition apply so that everything is done to enable those people who want to work to re-establish the labour market. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is a package of over €250 million a year. Today, for example, we have 120 million as a reintegration aid, so to speak, creating an incentive system to encourage companies to recruit these people. In Upper Austria, for example, until recently it was so that in about two and a half months' pay was paid for a person over 50 years of age who was unemployed for more than six months, and the figures speak for themselves. This has been very successful in recent years, and it will be in the future if these funds are doubled here. Ladies and gentlemen, this is also in the sense of older workers. We also know the situation from our speeches: People over 50 years of age have become unemployed – for whatever reason – it is extremely difficult to live in the labour market at the moment, and I therefore support this package. I also believe that it will be put at the right time to stand by these people in a personally difficult situation. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to address a point on the need-oriented minimum security. This package contains a request from the Greens, and it speaks for itself if this motion rejects five groups of the House. I would just like to draw up a few points in this proposal. The “fourteen-time disbursement of the requirement-oriented minimum guarantee”, the “claim to cover the full cost of living”, without precise detail, and the “right to training and qualification” – a right to training and qualification! – then the “establishment of a right to certain benefits, such as the cost of medical aid” et cetera or “the increased family allowance”. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Switzerland]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] Ladies and gentlemen, no one in Austria who pursues a job has these legal claims! And what do we do with it? – The difference between those people who go to work for 40 hours or 38.5 hours a week, and those who do not, this difference continues to work together. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the completely wrong approach! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] We need incentive systems and not a social romanticism of the Greens as far as labour market policy is concerned! A need-oriented minimum guarantee is for those people who need it. I keep calling single mothers. – Yes, they need this social network, but that cannot be permanent support for those who simply don’t want to work, and we also have it in Austria, ladies and gentlemen. [[Consistency with ÖVP and FPÖ as well as the Abg. Hagen]] There must therefore be other sanctions in this area. I am also grateful for the fact that the Minister of Social Affairs has convened the Social Reference Conference on this subject. First approaches were discussed there. [[Interlocutory calls from honourable Members and Schwentner.]] Yes, even to create incentives if someone wants to get out of the minimum security. [[Abg. Schwentner: Higher wages!]] Yes, if someone wants to work, wants to go back to the labour market, then there should be incentives, but for those who do not want to, there can be no permanent support, ladies and gentlemen! That must be said quite clearly once.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e8025	The next time is Clubobfrau Ing. Dietrich speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e8047	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The Labour Market Policy Finance Act is something that we will, of course, give our consent. In times where there are more than 400,000 unemployed in Austria, it makes sense to support the group 50 plus and to give these people the opportunity to re-enter the labour market. Therefore our full support in this area. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] But we have to start with the cause, that is, we have to look at the fact that in Austria young people are once again motivated to become entrepreneurs. We need an economy without bureaucracy! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] We need to see that the obstacles that entrepreneurs have every day are removed. We need a business-friendly environment so that we can create jobs again so that the unemployed finally have a future and not just find their future in unemployment. In recent years, the red and black government has gone a long way – this is like a red thread – that those who work are punished – they have less and less money in the wallet – that entrepreneurs are being harassed, and that those who are willing to drive to the workplace day by day also pay for it. That's not what we're fighting. We want Pendler to have such framework conditions that the kilometers they actually drive are also fully tax deductible. [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. Peter Worm.]] Ladies and gentlemen, let us consider ourselves as an example: We're gonna get a spree substitute. There it is fair and right to see that the workers, namely those who travel far, who have full support and not for taking this effort, are also punished. The current Pendler Regulation as well as the Pendler Calculator are absolutely not targeting and only means an extra effort. Ladies and gentlemen! An example from the Steiermark: Murau District is the district most affected by emigration. 61 percent of the employees are commuting there! 61 percent of the people who pursue employment are commuting from the district! Think about the following: If these people were not willing to commute, the rural area would soon be emptied. So they commute, earn their money, invest again in Murau and give those who live there another chance to stay in this region, because politics has swept the rural area empty! You have closed the municipal offices, you have closed the post, the small schools – destroyed all the jobs there, up to the police. We want to ensure that rural areas have not only a great past but also a future. That's why: Strengthening rural areas! [[Congratulations with the Stronach team, as well as with representatives of the FPÖ.]] To give concrete examples: I know people every day from Krakow, that's right at the end of the world, commuting to Weiz, going up from Schöder to Tamsweg or from Predlitz to Leoben. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: But this is not far!]] The costs for these commutings are not fully replaced by the State. That is, they still pay for it, which reduces their budget money, and they leave a lot of life there on the street. But the only one who really benefits from it is the state, because it cashes when fuel prices go up, and the state cashes when people are diligent and mobile to live in their home country. Another example: A 25-year-old Burgenlander, unemployed for several years, now gets a job in Vienna and then has to commute. 300 € she leaves on the road, she earns 1 000 € – she remains 700 €. I ask you: Where is there the incentive for people to take this uncomfortable path, this path of responsibility, the way, not to want to lie on the side of the state, but to take care of income themselves when punishing those who are flexible? This is why, in order to ensure that the rural area has a future, it is possible to provide full support for commuting. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e8110	Next, Mr Wimmer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e8132	Mr President. Federal Minister! My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen! Dear colleagues, dear friends at the gallery! I am very welcome to welcome visitors from the Neuen Mittelschule in Neunkirchen, which are among us today, and may wish them a nice stay here with us. [[General condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen, obviously, as I am now hearing in the course of the ongoing discussion, the Labour Market Policy Finance Act will be adopted unanimously. That's good. Especially the first part, where 20 million € are made available for short work, is very useful and important. We know that short work has been very successful in the crisis. We know that short work has led us through the crisis very successfully, and that is why, I believe, it is very important that we take precautions here. At the present time, we have thank God only 15 businesses and nearly 1,200 people in short work, but the leaf can turn, and that is why it is important to provide, ladies and gentlemen. The second point I would like to address has already been discussed in great detail: the employment initiative for older workers, namely action 50+, for which € 250 million are being made available for 2016 and 2017. We need this quite, very urgently, because we know that older workers in particular at this time in the labour market can be very badly affected. But what I would like, ladies and gentlemen, is that the economy is a little more committed and more creative. If we know that a negotiated or almost negotiated paper is on the table, which in this form is called bonus malus system – we know what it is all about – then I believe that all efforts would be appropriate here, too, to implement this law. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And I would also like to invite the economy to take a very essential step in this regard. I am also saying this because we have heard very absurd reports in recent times. For example, a very prominent spokesperson of the Industrial Union has It would be a failure to introduce Hartz IV and the tariff opening clause in Austria. – Ladies and gentlemen, we can only say: Never alive! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What do those, ladies and gentlemen, really want to introduce, perhaps Hartz IV, who can feed people with a few hundred euros and, so to speak, still deal with the collective agreement? – This is the social and wage dumping of the lowest drawer! We clearly reject this, ladies and gentlemen. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Köchl.]] Another point on my colleague's treasure: Yes, you are perfectly right, we need to divide the work into more people in the future. This will be a very big challenge. And we know that we have to negotiate very hard with the employers, but there will be very few alternatives. We need to divide existing work into more people in the medium term. This is all the more necessary than, for example, 270 million overtimes a year. On the one hand, there are so many people who do not find work, and on the other hand so many overtime hours that are done. Because, above all, my colleague, Mr Schatz, has meant that very little is done for the workers, I would like to remind you of the following: The wage tax reform that happened yesterday to the Council of Ministers is a milestone. And we are proud of this because, as a trade union movement and as a social democracy, we have made a significant contribution to this outcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e8214	Next, Mr Magistrate. Loacker's word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e8235	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! I am always excited that my colleague, Honey, and now also colleague Wimmer, want to distribute the work. You mean we have to distribute the work to more people. At the turn of the year, if the balance sheet account holder has a “killer hack”, we have to distribute the work to the construction worker who has no work in winter. [[call to the FPÖ.]] And in summer, when there are many hours on construction, we entrust the accountant who has less to do with the work in summer. – So you can really get excited about how beautiful you can distribute work with the scoop! At the moment we have a problem with the demand for work, the economy is not in a state of swing, and therefore there are no additional jobs. We need to create a labour supply that meets the needs of companies in the right direction, so it needs resources for the labour market. However, we believe that the proposal of the Federal Government is misdesigned. A focus is on integration aid. In this context, the Court of Auditors notes that, in other words, support is also paid for jobs which would have been achieved without funding. And there is a lot of money for socio-economic businesses. In addition, the Chamber of Labour says that many of these integration grants are not collected at all. We would have liked to see a stronger focus on training. However, there is a decline in expenditure there. The training measures go down particularly with older workers, but on average they have the lowest level of education, where we have a big problem because we have a large proportion of people with compulsory schooling. And that is why we believe that the measures you propose are totally wrong. It's also a number game that the government is playing here: In particular, because the older unemployed are less spent on training, the unemployment rate increases disproportionately. If you prepare statistics on training, unemployment among older workers is about on average in general unemployment. This leads me to the next point: The bonus malus model you propose is a embroider! It doesn't work at all and is only cost-based again: They again increase the costs for companies that employ workers. This will not create new jobs, but it will have to be done quite differently. I know that the Minister of Social Affairs sees this as different, but we must work towards weakening the principle of seniority, because even if some collective agreements do not provide a strong curve of seniority, there is always an illustration in the labour market in the cross-reference, and there is a problem. We have to offer early re-trainings to people who are in occupations who are health-intensive so that we can keep them at work. We must introduce part-time work capacity, that one can not only be sick or healthy, but can also be partially workable. But we also need to introduce a proper partial pension, not a part-time allowance plus, where only more money is powdered out. Our application for a continuing education account goes further than that of the Greens, because we want the continuing training account not only for the unemployed but also for the people who are on the job – similar to the pension account. And we must work to ensure that people do not get into unemployment by already continuing training and continuing training when they are still in the work process – rather than just taking corrective measures afterwards.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e8303	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e8324	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to address a few points, and I would like to thank you for your great support, especially on the issue of increasing funds for active labour market policy. We thus have the highest budget that the AMS ever had in its history, in order to clarify this. I would also like to make it clear that we naturally have an increase in the number of unemployed people from third countries. Yes, they came to Austria in 1970, 1980, 1990 and are also partially unemployed. Of course, there is some competition, but the answer to someone who came to us in 1980 cannot be: So now you're 60 years old, bye! – This is not the answer these people, who have been working with us for many years now, expect. Nobody's coming after anyone else from third countries, you know that. We have a complex system. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: Mr. Minister, where does no one follow?]] – It comes from third countries only more someone with red and white red card, otherwise not! You know that. [[Abg. Pretty: Or an asylum seekers!]] You know that. Look, asylum seekers on the Austrian labour market do not exist, asylum seekers exist. And that's exactly where our policy differs: We are trying to solve a very, very complex system together in Europe, however difficult it is. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: That's only half right, you've already opened up for the asylum seekers!]] For you, the answer is: On the Mediterranean return! - That's not our answer. [[Abg. Beautiful: But your statement was wrong!]] She's not wrong, because she's not wrong. [[New call for tender Belakovich-Jenewein]] You know exactly what a complex way this is until you become more entitled to asylum in Austria. [[Abg. Honey: Either you come after or you don't!]] You know that. - Well, that's point one. Point two: There will be no opening of asylum seekers in the foreseeable future. [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] You know, I already said that. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Last time you said you were checking!]] – You just have to listen! You must listen, Mrs Belakovich-Jenewein! I already made this statement in the ORF, and, and, and, That's nothing new. And because you stand here and say that the wage and social dumping law is toothless: I would ask you and invite you – no, it's not about my statements. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: These are your own statements!]] I quote the Liberal Party of Burgenland the strictest law in Europe. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: This is your coalition partner!]] Europe's strictest law! This is the statement of the Freedom Party Burgenland. In case they don't belong to you anymore, then say it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Call: They're already at the SPÖ]] I can only quote the Liberal Party of Burgenland: the strictest law in Europe! But the wage and social dumping law should make us think about something, and all of us should think about it: Point one: Half of all penalties concern Austrian companies. – Austrian companies! That should make you think. You should also think – and this is the job for all of us – that there are always three industries; there are always three industries, so sorry I do. I do not like all this, I would prefer not to punish anyone, that would be my favorite, but unfortunately this is not because we always have this problem in the construction, gastronomy and agriculture. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: That's what we know.]] That is why I can only ask you all to work together to solve this problem, because it is not about foreign labour, it is about our Austrian labour market, because it affects enough domestic workers. This should give us thought, and therefore this call on all of us to work together on how we can deal with it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] One thing should also give us to think – and I can only invite you all: The rest is punished has an Austrian client. I think we as a society are required. And that's where you have to stop a little deeper into the thing. I know, it's not populist to sit down and ask: Dear Austrian client, why does her wage dumping cause her under-remuneration? This is not funny, nor does it fit into your party image, that is perfectly clear to me, but I can only ask and ask you to bring the Austrian clients into the boat so that they do not award such orders at all. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: If anyone does something wrong, he does something wrong! That's different from us!]] And that's what doesn't fit you into the stuff, but that's the cause of the evil. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: How do you know what's right with us? Your policies don't fit us in!]] [[Abg. Beautiful: wage dumping can only be done if there is an oversupply!]] - No, not at all. See, that's exactly the subject. Ladies and gentlemen, are we always only in three sectors? There's always an oversupply in three sectors? – Think a little bit about it! See how many unemployed lawyers there are! It could happen there if what you say were true. Think about it! Don't defend the Austrian client with oversupply. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Nobody defends it!]] - You're doing that right now! You and your statements, but I have this oversupply in many other sectors. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Who says that this is only Austrian? They're telling anything!]] But I would like to say a few things about working time. Because, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, you have also mentioned the current figures: At hour, 320 000 people are unemployed and 64 000 are in training. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Less than yesterday, we know!]] And so you can hear it again: 15 percent of those mentioned in the statistics do not get any performance from us – so that it is clear – because we have a statistics in which the job-seekers are already included; we are so perfect that we also take up the job-seekers immediately, risking that our statistics are much higher than the number of those who effectively receive a service. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: They are not perfect at all!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say to you, on the subject of working time and under-paid and low-paid sectors: Of course, there is a discussion in the trade unions – in some trade unions, not in all – about whether you can achieve something by reducing working time. Through the total changes in the working world, we will have a long-term discussion about the redistribution of work. It is currently running very massively in industrial enterprises and is continuing to enter other sectors. We have the first nursing home in Austria, where a care robot is tried out, and, and, and. As a result, of course, there will be this debate, but I have tried to go first to the top of the iceberg, and this head of the iceberg are two things: We have the second highest weekly working time of 42,5 hours across Europe, although only 1.5 million people still have a 40-hour week, because one million has a 38,5-hour week and one million is in part-time. And although there is already this staggering, we are at the 42,5-hour week. Therefore, I focus on the 270 million overtimes, knowing that there will always have to be overtime – that is not a question at all, that is not the subject at all. But the question is whether I could turn 10 per cent of these 270 million overtime hours into jobs – at least around 9 000 full-time jobs. And it would be worth holding this debate once, and that is what I am talking about. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This is also – a short description – the background, why I have said, we are making an overtime euro. This overtime euro is not about taxing the service providers, but the logic behind it was another: to remove the overtime euro while at the same time reducing the health insurance contribution for service providers by 0.2 percent, because a tenth health insurance contribution on the service side is currently 100 million. And if we had done the overtime euro, we would have reduced €200 million for the service providers, because the overtime euro would have compensated for this. That was the logic, that was the bill, but in the media the second part has not really been presented. On the low-paid sector, Mrs Schatz, because you always criticise the Austrian system of social security: The Federal Republic of Germany has a minimum statutory wage and has a low wage sector of 24 percent of the labour force. On average, the European Union has a low wage sector of 17 percent – we have a low wage sector of 15 percent. That is, the Austrian way that the social partners are shaping something cannot have been so bad, otherwise we would not have this value. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: 15 percent are too much!]] Of course, 15 percent are still a lot, but even where a law is needed, there is still a low wage sector of 24 percent. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: But you have been announcing the overtime euro for four years!]] This should also give you some thought, namely that the legal solution required by you is not the final conclusion of wisdom. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I don't want to say anything to the BMS today, except three messages: Point one: Last year we had 22,000 working hours of BMS staff. Point two: The average stay throughout Austria at the BMS is 8.1 months. [[Abg. Peter Worm: per year?]] – Yes, 8.1 months is the average stay. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: But expected over the years!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I know you have a problem in your community, but I can nevertheless tell you: In Austria, 75 percent of BMS providers are uplifters, who get 50 €, 100 €, 150 €. And in order to get the 50 €, 100 €, 150 €, they must also take out spiritually before the social unit, because otherwise they will not get it, because the 50 €, 100 €, 150 € increase performance is subject to the social assistance logic. In other words, people can already have emergency aid, people can have a low active income, but they are still people who have nothing else, otherwise they won't get this 50 €, 100 € or 150 €. [[Abg. Peter Worm: If you can research it!]] Look, the calculation's next. Trust the Austrian district authorities! Do you have so much distrust of Austrian employees in the district authorities? [[Abg. Peter Wurm: No, they do it according to prescription!]] No one else does! The Austrian district authorities or magistrates, if the city is a little larger, are those who do it. And you know very well that these people talk to the consulates, to the embassies when it comes to foreign forces. You know that! And you also know that we look very closely in Austria too, otherwise we would not have a 40 percent rejection rate in Vienna. In Tyrol, at last, make the lead and introduce what Lower Austria and Vienna have, that is to say, only one year. Bring this in to the Tiroler Landtag! [[Abg. Peter Wurm: There we have the Greens in the government, that's difficult!]] Bring this in, see if you get a majority there. Vienna has this, Lower Austria has that, which is a very simple means of control. There's always that for a year, and things are going very well. What I would like to say to you openly: 27 percent of all BMS users are children! Only so that you also know what we are talking about and how many have access to the labour market. I'd like to finish. Mr Loacker, I know that you are very engrossed and you are trying very hard – that is not a question of appreciation – but we have taken the Court of Auditors' report seriously for a long time, and the conditions have changed for a long time. - Point one. Point two: Seniority principle. I think I can now try to clean up with a rumor for the fifth time. Yes, we have collective agreements with a proper seniority principle, which exists: Industrial workers, banks, insurance companies. Do you know what these employees, who are paid according to these collective contracts, are their own? – The highest employment rate in old age. In the case of collective contracts, where there is no such thing – in the case of colleague Muchitsch, in trade and in some others too – there is the lowest employment rate in old age. Somehow the argument is wrong, somewhere the argument is not conclusive, because wherever the older employee understandably deserves much more according to the principle of seniority than the young one, there is a high proportion of employees in old age. And wherever the collective agreements do not provide for this, there is the lowest employment rate. [[Abg. Steinbichler: That's not true!]] Unfortunately, this is the result of an extensive study that we have done. You did not address our main problem: Our main problem is the overall employment rate of men between 61 and 65 years of age and women between 56 and 60 years of age. – This is our main problem! In this area, we must try together to develop things, and that is why there is always the debate about bonus/malus or another model. It's just about: How can we allow people to stay longer in the acquisition process? One of the possibilities – I know you don't like it, but I really don't care – will be the partial pension, because with this partial pension it will also be possible to stay in the acquisition process for a longer period of time. - Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e8748	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Aubauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e8793	Mr President. Federal Minister! We are pleased that we can welcome the class 4F of the GRG 23 from Vienna-Liesing, which was just a guest at Collaborator Tamandl. I'm glad you're here! [[General condolences.]] Yes, dear student, you are still young, but imagine you are over 50, for six months unemployed, want to work, write one application after another, but unsuccessful. Then how do you feel? – Depressed, desperate, rejected. We hear all of this in the discussions with our older job seekers, and it is so important that we increase the funding for older unemployed today and give these workers new hope. In the next two years, up to €250 million will be invested specifically for the elderly in the labour market; and we are very convinced: More people will get a job than before. This is an important signal for the elderly, namely the signal: The company wants and appreciates older workers. Age is not necessarily one of the biggest obstacles to job search, but rather formal education and formal education. Last year, about 80 000 people were over 50 unemployed per year, and about half had only one compulsory schooling. What does that mean? Each second has no vocational training, and that is exactly where we should start. In Austria there is the model of adult teaching, a good model that is financially promoted, but hardly anyone knows about it. We wish for an information campaign on adult education; then we can get a degree, which is still worth over 50, which is worth it for businesses and those concerned. Yes, we want to make longer work possible, but there always comes the question: Will there be enough jobs? Do the older ones then take away the jobs from these boys? – There are very clear studies, international experiences; and AMS chief has recently said clearly in the "Mitagsjournal": Working longer leads primarily to more jobs. For example, an additional car seller also sells more cars, or a carpenter who does not go into retirement, who also attracts more orders on land. That means that it makes sense to invest more money for older people in the labour market, which makes sense for all of us, for the systems. And, please, let's also consider: This gives many, many people new hope and worries them! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e8842	Next came Mr Wurm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e8863	Mr President. Minister! Dear spectators here in the house and at home in front of the televisions! Mr. Minister Hundstorfer, I have to correct you, I have a notice from the MA 40 from Vienna, where the minimum security for two years was guaranteed, in addition to 13 and 14. [[Federal Minister Hundstorfer: For children!]] I may be able to show it to you after that, Mr R.. I just wanted to make it clear: In Vienna too, the world is not always all right! - Yeah, or nothing's all right. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Eh! There's nothing wrong with that!]] The first three hours in plenary were very interesting to me today. There should somehow begin to crumble the front of the objectors, especially the ÖVP, which at last takes note of realities. There are also a few more in the ranks that have not completely understood this. The SPÖ is thinking about it, and with the Greens and the NEOS I have unfortunately lost all hope of God. When you look at what comes mainly from the ÖVP side: I should like to mention briefly the Minister for Integration, who suddenly takes over our demands, which we have discussed here in plenary a year and a half ago, one under the title of the country of origin principle in the field of social benefits, and also suddenly addresses the topic of family benefits abroad, for which we – or I personally – were branded here more or less as hetzer at that time. And suddenly, the shooting star of ÖVP, Minister of Integration Kurz, takes note of these figures and says, together with the English: There's something you have to do! – Please, for a year and a half, we've been telling these facts, and everyone pretends that there are no such facts. And, of course, the fact that foreigners benefit from our social system through immigration is easy to verify by means of the figures. This has already been recognized by the ÖVP at least in part. Since Minister Kurz is taking over more and more positions from us anyway, I thought you might be able to submit a member's proposal to your colleague, perhaps he would like to join us as a member. Then the whole thing's probably easier. [[The speaker tried to present a document to Federal Minister Hundstorfer, which he rejected, on which the speaker put the document on the government bank.]] Just a few more numbers, I told you one and a half years ago, you all know this: Our social system is powerful like an emperor's mammoth! This is nothing new, so we also need to save on the left and on the right. We are already spending 30 percent of GDP on the social system, and that is what we are at the limit, I believe, is clear to everyone. Depending on the season and the season, there are between 400 000 and 500 000 unemployed, rising each month – that you are frustrated, Mr Minister, I am already clear –, 250 000 minimum security professionals in Austria, 170 000 emergency workers, 70 000 asylum seekers in basic care. And now back again: As far as the country of origin is concerned, I shall make the following request in this context: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Minister for Integration, calls for briefly, we shall bring it in once again, and I hope that the ÖVP will now also be ready to vote with us. – I would be very pleased. Once again a few figures on unemployment, as has been said, each month there are constantly rising unemployment rates, here again figures, data, facts. The rise in Austrians is dramatic enough: 10 percent, May 2015 figures; Unemployment growth among foreigners in May: 24 percent. – 10 percent Austrian, 24 percent foreigners. The share of non-Austrian unemployed is already 27.4 percent. Statistics: You have Your own statistics are so praised, I would like to say briefly: What is missing from your statistics is unemployment in the sick – an average of 25,000 – which does not appear in any statistics. Also missing are persons with a reference barrier, which is on average about 6,000. And your statistics also lack people who receive pension advance and transitional payments – approximately 6 000. So if we add these people to official statistics, we would have been over 500 000 for a long time. The minimum level of protection is also a matter which I have already carried out here several times. Clearly, you can understand from questioning answers, everything no secret, the press could also make for a long time: On average, in Tyrol it is precisely possible to say that 50 percent of the minimum insurance beneficiaries are not Austrian citizens. This is simply a fact that I would like to repeat here again. That it is more than 90 countries in Tyrol, I have already mentioned several times, and that we are at the limit in this area – that is, country, municipalities, but also the federal government – and that can't go on that way, everyone who thinks a little logical should be quite clear. To sum up, it costs taxpayers around €1.5 billion, which means that we have to say – and this is due to a very up-to-date response made by the Minister – that: He himself admits that statistics in Austria are inadequate in the case of minimum security. That is to say, the Minister acknowledges this, because it is quite difficult to find out what the taxpayer costs in total over the entire channels, Article 15a agreements. [[Interference of Federal Minister Hundstorfer.]] The Minister himself admits that these statistics are worth improving and faulty. Here I am excited when the Austrians will once learn real numbers. The topic of asylum seekers; we have already heard it this morning. Once again, even if the Greens don't like to hear: In the last ten years, 80 percent of asylum seekers have not been entitled to asylum, which is currently 70 percent. These are numbers from the Federal Office, they are not invented by me. And I can also remember, a year and a half ago, please nice, I've been branded here: My numbers are wrong, and it takes years for the asylum seekers to finally get a message! – Everything disproves, now the general knowledge should be. Only now, with the 70 000, the trend is rising strongly – you expect 150,000 next year, of course, the system will collapse. Also at the cost: At present, I estimate – and there are no exact figures – that we are about 1 billion in the field of asylum seekers. Small example of Tyrol: The outsourced asylum GmbH has a budget of € 45 million. What nobody says – I'm going to make a request this week – but I'd like to know: Who actually makes these asylum accommodations available free of charge? It is always pretended as if there were people getting up and providing asylum accommodation. I would like to know: Who does this for free? I would also like an answer from Mr Schellhorn, whether he will also receive the €19. Or are these 36 persons accommodated free of charge? [[Abg. Loacker: That's it! That's so!]] I'm very excited about the answer. Yes, in principle one could carry it out even longer, but because of the time I do it very briefly. As has already been said: We from FPÖ are very clear about a country of origin principle in social benefits. This should finally be implemented by ÖVP and SPÖ with us, so that our social system in Austria does not run completely out of the row – because in the end the Austrian and the Austrian pay the bill! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e8980	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Peter Wurmsoben is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e9262	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Schwentner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e9284	Mr President. Minister! Dear viewers! I would particularly like to address a request that has already provided some polemics, namely, minimum safeguards. And there is another one from the FPÖ, an unknown one that appears in every committee. It is about minimum security, and it is actually about what we have in the country as the last social network and what we are now working on. It is – and therefore I also ask the Minister for support – a new framework agreement, an Article 15a agreement that hopefully ensures that the new minimum security will be better than the old one. And now to the old and perhaps also to the polemics of Mr Wöginger, who is not here now. [[Abg. Wöginger: (standing in the ÖVP's bank series) But!]] - Ah, sorry, I looked at the squares. The minimum security, as we have now, is always seen as the way to the social hammock and as if people were taking advantage of the social system. We know, however, that it is very, very difficult to get out of minimum security, because, for example, they cannot afford to do so and because the way back to the labour market is a very, very difficult one. [[Abg. Wöger: incentive system, yes!]] I therefore believe that the minimum degree of security we now have is a way out of society. It is our task to take appropriate measures together to get people out of this social out. [[Abg. Wöginger: But not with the!]] I know it's a common good, our request includes a wealth of wishes: Yes, it's better for me, I'd rather determine what these points are, what it's all about and what we need. We need a uniformation, because it is not possible to see why access to minimum security in Bregenz looks different than in Eisenstadt. That must be right now! What's going on now? – On the one hand, negotiations are starting at official level, on the other hand, it is already being torpeded in the individual countries. That is to say, it is actually necessary quickly or at the time when at least we agree on what we want to negotiate, what we, as a Parliament, are to look forward to, like, a social network that we must ensure for people in this country. We need to create ways to do this, and these ways are actually being prevented. I refuse to acknowledge that it should continue to depend on the postal code, which social assistance you receive in Austria. I would therefore like to ask you for a little less polemic in the debate, ladies and gentlemen, especially of ÖVP and SPÖ. The FPÖ is there in other ways, and it never gets our support. And I would also like to warn: I know – never, certainly not! [[Abg. Peter Worm: Not?]] This story that you have here, minimum security by country of origin, the same one has now come up: Family aid by country of origin... – Yes, where does this lead? [[Intervocations at FPÖ and ÖVP.]] – You now overtake the FPÖ on the right, and now the FPÖ comes with a namental vote and will look at whether you support it from the ÖVP or not. [[New calls at FPÖ and ÖVP.]] This is water on the FPÖ mills and no contribution to discussing it in any way serious. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I said it in the morning: What you do, what Minister Kurz does, is shoot something out very quickly, without being aware of the consequences. If I now go back to the request: What does minimum security mean by the principle of origin? Yeah, what does that mean? Explain! We have often told you in committee. This means that perhaps people from Romania get less here, but that also means that people from Germany who work with us get a lot more from Switzerland, people from Liechtenstein who work here, much more. [[Abg. Peter Worm: Yes!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] So, is that fair? – No, because everyone lives here with the same cost of living, with the same expenses for food, for the apartment, for everything they have. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: The invoice goes out! It's getting cheaper!]] And it is also unconstitutional, because it contradicts the principle of equality, which seems to you simply to be sausaged. They simply don't care about the principle of equality, which is enshrined in the Constitution. [[Intervocations at FPÖ and ÖVP.]] And you keep bringing the same rumors, the same abuse arguments and so on. I'm really sorry, honestly tired. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Are you? If you're tired, go to sleep, please!]] I would rather discuss how we create this social network in such a way that people who are not well in this country get support, but at the same time they get out as quickly as possible and find access to the labour market. To this end, we also support the NEOS' request, which – as we do – wants the income limit to be raised in terms of merit. [[Call the ÖVP: That's crazy!]] And we also have other ideas about living aid. Yes, the minimum security is too low, and that's why we say: 14 times. But she's not, and do you know what the problem is? – On the other hand, salaries are too low. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] Do you know how many people in Austria work under an acceptable minimum wage? That is 500 000. That is, not the minimum guarantee is the problem, but the low wages are the problem. I would like us to be serious about these very things. Especially from a so-called economic party, from a party such as the ÖVP, which the Christian Social still attaches itself to its flags, but which I have not recognized for a long time, I expect that. So, please, we are discussing such requests in a serious way! I'm asking for your support. I would also like us to make this possible in the Committee, on the summer – we have no committees – or until autumn, if the negotiations really begin to find common solutions as far as minimum security is concerned, namely that they are really guaranteed for all those who are not so well dependent on them and need them urgently. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e9465	Mr Hechtl is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e9487	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr Wurm, your statements on the speaker's floor and this motion for a resolution are already significant for the FPÖ. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: Don't vote my numbers? Do the numbers or not?]] The previous speaker, Mr Schwentner, has already said it clearly, and I can only repeat it once again: No one gets a benefit in Austria, on which he does not have a legal claim, or the need-oriented minimum guarantee only those persons who also have a legal residence here. Those who do not have a rightful stay here do not receive benefits from the requirement-oriented minimum guarantee. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: Did I say something else?]] You know that. They always propagate something different, and that is significant for you and for the Freedom Party. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would also like to say that we strongly oppose this motion for a resolution from the Socialist Group, because we see injustice here and because we do not want the Freedom Party to decide who will receive a 100% rightful performance in Austria and who will receive only part of it on the basis of a principle of origin. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now on item 2 under which the Labour Market Policy Financing Act is dealt with: This amendment will continue to support the successful short-term work and short-time work with training from unemployment insurance funds. This shows that, in the economically difficult times that we have experienced since 2008 in Austria, we have put in place the right measure, namely, when we granted the farms a benefit from unemployment insurance, so that on the one hand, they could reduce working time and thus keep the workers on the holding, and on the other hand, have given those people who have been excluded from the holding a chance to get back into the work process. Dear ladies and gentlemen! This is active labour market policy, and I am proud that our Federal Minister has succeeded in extending and expanding the budget for active labour market policy especially in financial times, and that, as has already been said, we have the biggest budget of the AMS in these difficult times. Congratulations, Federal Minister, on this budget! I would like to address very briefly the employment policy measure for older people, 50 plus. I think it is an important social policy task that we should also support those people who, due to their age, are difficult to get back into the work process because of their health status. I would like to say one word to my colleague, Mr Schatz, on the request relating to minimum wage rates. We have done very well with the social partners in Austria, which has also shown us history, and we will therefore insist that wage negotiations be conducted at the social partners level. The social partners are best aware of the various economic sectors, and the negotiations are well removed. The social partners must be strengthened and not weakened! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e9554	Next speaker: Mr. Singer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e9576	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I also see it as a good and efficient initiative created by the amendment of the Labour Market Policy Financing Act, in short: more funding for older unemployed. These will also be increased accordingly in the next few years. Especially for the older generation and especially for those who have been looking for work for a long time, the reintegration and reintegration in the labour market present particular challenges. For me, therefore, these funds are very well and efficiently invested. The AMS Employment Initiative, launched in recent years, with integration measures and with resources for the second labour market, has proved to be a successful initiative to support older workers accordingly. In 2014, more than 16 000 people over 50 years of age were able to be transferred to a job with €100 million for this package of measures. Today, 120 million € will be available for this, and next year it will be 250 million €. My wish would be that this initiative be extended beyond 2016. Ladies and gentlemen! Now a word on the Greens' request for minimum security of demand. This request is clearly rejected from my point of view and contradicts our guideline “Performance must pay off”. For example, they claim a right to cover the full cost of living. How do you imagine that? They only require legal claims; Mr Wöginger has already done this. But what about self-responsibility and performance? I wonder, Does an employee also have this claim? There are currently around 240 000 people in Austria in need-oriented minimum security. Of them, 140 000 live alone in Vienna. Around 40 percent of the members of the staff of the minimum insurance scheme are considered to be capable of working. Ladies and gentlemen! Many people today feel that too many people benefit from our social system, although they would actually be able to work. However, in order to bring justice to stakeholders and taxpayers alike and to make the daily hard working people in Austria feel like Returning that it is worth pursuing a regulated work, we must turn on some support screws of the minimum safety requirements. Ladies and gentlemen, we are very clearly committed to ensuring the minimum level of security – I emphasize this – and we are clearly committed to ensuring the minimum level of security for those who need support, which they should also receive accordingly. The objective of minimum security must be to give people a chance to live a self-determination life again, and to give them financial perspectives. The aim of the legislator is to create more incentives for those who want to work but also to provide more assistance to those who cannot manage it on their own initiative – and ultimately to ensure more control of those who abuse our social system! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e9627	Next speaker: Mrs Schimanek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e9648	Mr President. Minister! In my speech, I would like to address our request for the Pendler Regulation, but first let me say a word on the subject of minimum security. Mr Hechtl, you have spoken of a legal claim. I have here the question answered by Mrs Landesratin Dr. Baur from Tyrol, in which she lists us, who in Tyrol is all the minimum guardians, thus has a legal claim on it. [[Keeping a document in height]] And where it becomes a bit funny in my belly, if a stateless legal claim is 19 unknown origin, where we do not even know where they are from, and 42 from Yugoslavia! But there is no longer Yugoslavia! This is the answer of the social councillor Baur from Tyrol. Where the legal claim is, I don't know, but you may have a different legal opinion than I do. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But now very briefly to our request by Mr Herbert Kickl regarding fair rules of commuting for our employees; a very important issue. The Chamber of Labour Salzburg has drawn our Members' attention to how important it is. In this proposal we call for a modern, fair and understandable system for counterparts. It is simply not to explain how workers are to cope with this. There is the small flat rate, the large flat rate, the kilometre season, the duration of the journey, criteria for the use of public transport. Everything is different from case to case, but at the actual cost the workers remain sitting. Therefore, the proposal of the Chamber of Workers Salzburg is more than sensible and welcome to charge 30 cents per kilometer from the apartment to the workplace or to fully charge the costs of public transport in the employee's accounts. We already know, Mr Social Minister, that the request would not be discussed in the Committee on Social Affairs, it has now been allocated to the Financial Committee. And we know very well that there is competence here in the Ministry of Finance, but I would have liked you to hear an opinion on this, too, but that was not possible in the Committee, nor did you say a word on this request today. But I can tell you that we also have this request in the Consumer Protection Committee, and I very much hope that we will get a reply from you on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e9709	Next word: Mr Ing. Vogl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e9730	Mr President. Mr. Minister! I would like to refer to Amendments Nos 5 and 6 by the honourable Member on the subject of minimum wage and I am somewhat surprised how the debate is going on today. I have actually experienced you very objectively in the discussion so far, and I also think the discussion on the subject of minimum wage is very important, and it is good that we are holding it in plenary today, even if I consider it politically different what the solution looks like. You raise two important questions with your request. The one question is: How high should an income be if someone is busy for 40 hours in our country?, and the second question is if we have agreed on an amount here: How do we enforce this claim? There is a demand for €1500 minimum wage in our country on the part of the ÖGB, and I think there will be no objection here, at least if a microphone is nearby, in plenary that this claim is justified. This 1 500 € minimum wage required here corresponds to Austrian logic 8.70 € hourly wage. If you count it on European logic, then we are talking about 10.10 € hourly wages here. Since the 13th and 14ths. If I want to calculate what you get for the hour, because there is only a salary in Germany twelve times a year, you can get about €10.10. If we agree, 1 500 € or, if we convert it, 1 600 € minimum wage is a justified claim, then you have to ask yourself: How do we implement them? We have already done quite clearly and often, why we believe that legal minimum wages are not what we want. Legal minimum wages are an expression of the failure to achieve a fair balance of interests between employers and employees. The fact that Germany is dependent on the minimum wage instrument today is also due to the weakness of our German trade union colleagues who need this instrument. And we have experienced that minimum wages can never represent the wage dynamics as it results in the individual industries. And what is the greatest criticism from us of minimum wages is that they are cut short in times of crisis – there you can look at all of Europe. You've now changed your applications, you've probably gone a bit further. That is why I do not understand your criticism that we would not deal with certain things. Only: In contrast to other European countries, and we can be proud of this, we have managed in Austria in recent years not to minimize the tariff area, but to reach a tariff area of 95 percent. If you rightly point out in the request that there are still areas where we do not have collective agreements, then my access to that is that I say we have to conclude this tariff area, and we are very successful at the moment. We are about to do another major area, where I hope that we will have a collective agreement very soon. I therefore believe that we do not need an additional regulation here, but we should support those who are really in the negotiation process. I would rather like us to see not only in this House 1 500 € minimum wage as justified demand, but also where we are in charge – and there are many areas, such as those of the notaries, where we have not yet implemented this requirement in a collective agreement – try to finally implement this requirement.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e9775	Next word: (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e9797	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Schander, I would ask you to listen better next time in committee so that you also know what wages I have been talking about! And believe me, I'm part of this minority that pays wages and salaries, and I know what I'm talking about. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Minimum wages are regulated in Austria in collective agreements concluded by the Chamber of Commerce and the ÖGB, and this is good because practitioners from the sector are negotiating. It is precisely this that takes into account the situation of the sector in question, because a minimum statutory wage would cool down poor industries as well as jobs in this area. The frequented example hairdresser: There we have a minimum wage immediately after completion of the teaching amounting to € 1 325, of course without drinking money. On average, an independent hairdresser deserves the same, with the difference between carrying the entrepreneurial risk and being socially less secure. That is the real world, Mrs Colleague. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In fact, most collective contracts are also in the lowest positions, immediately after graduation, already well above €1 300, employees in the trade have 1 500 € after graduation, and employees in the construction industry, which is one of the highest collective contracts, €2 280. Apart from that, the industry segment pays much higher wages. This means that Austria is in the world's leading international top line with the mandatory minimum wages – and this comparison does not take into account the fact that in Austria employers also have to pay very high additional wage costs. Due to the legal membership of the Chamber, almost all private business entrepreneurs and 99 percent of employees are covered by these collective contractual minimum wages. We are also at the forefront of the European Union. In almost all collective agreements, minimum wages are usually concluded through the inflation rate, including in our main crisis years 2008/2009, so that purchasing power also increases steadily. The fact that average real income is developing worse has nothing to do with the wage policy of our social partners, but with the fact that many part-time jobs have been added to reducing statistically average income. Yes, I think work and performance must be worthwhile. It is therefore important that we continue to reduce wage and social contributions in the future, and this will only work if we get better control of the minimum and other transfers. I would like to give you an example that a four-star hotel company sent me last week, but I can also provide you with whole folders with such cases: A job was enrolled at the AMS, a lady was invited – what was it? Entrepreneur's opinion to the AMS: Son was there, Mother doesn't want to work, she's always wanted to know if she's getting money or not. - Sure, 'cause she'll get minimum security. It is precisely this issue that we need to get under control. In conclusion, Mrs Schatz: I believe that wages and salaries will continue to be negotiated and defined by business representatives and employees – and not by professional politicians far from corporate reality.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e9866	Mr Hundstorfer, Federal Minister, spoke on a second opinion. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e9887	I would like to make it very briefly, ladies and gentlemen. – I know that the Austrian Freedom Party is happy to march through the area with a request from Tyrol. I'd suggest you make a new request. - Point one. Point two: You will find people in all the federal states who – and you should know that – still have the status of Yugoslavia. Why? – Because these legal people have never taken care of a change in their citizenship since then. They're still being led by us as jugoslavs. You can find this in all sectors of our administration. You should know that, because the National Council decided by law at that time that this could be the case. Point three: You're allowed to be stateless. There are people in this world who do not belong to any state but who still have a right to employment in very special situations, and, and, What surprises me most is that that state, which has the highest turnover in tourism, always comes with the complaint: We have so many nationalities! – Yes, apologise, look at those who maintain the Tyrolean tourism! Why don't you take a look at who employees are in Tyrolean tourism? Look who's working there! And, unfortunately, from time to time it can also happen to become unemployed, and from time to time it can also happen to have a claim for an increase in performance. Yeah, that's it! And so you know how colorful our world is: While we are sitting here, the German government has decided to have citizens from Croatia from 1st century onwards. In July, to grant full labour market freedom in the Federal Republic of Germany. Our decision is quite different. The Germans have now taken this decision. Then: People wander in a common Europe. On the other hand, we continue as before until 2018, and then we will continue to look. And so that we can also bring in a little dynamic There is stateless, yes. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: The stateless in the EU! That's right!]] Ask the county administration authority, which has so registered! Ask the people who work there why it comes to such people! Then you'll see that the employees there don't make it easy for them to check this very carefully. And then you'll find out why the stateless come to such a classification. So that we also have some optimism: By the end of May this year, 292,000 people with unemployment benefit started employment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e9924	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. Agenda item 2: Draft federal law amending the Labour Market Policy Financing Act, including title and receipt in 587 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to give their approval to this draft law at third reading too, to give an appropriate sign. – That is unanimous in turn. This draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. Agenda item 3: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 634 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. I accept Amendment 912/A(E) to the Financial Committee. Vote on agenda item 4: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 635 of the supplements. Whoever is for this, please give a sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. Vote on agenda item 5: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 636 of the supplements. Whoever is here, please give a sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. Agenda item 6: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 637 of the supplements. Whoever is here, please give a sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. Vote on agenda item 7: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 638 of the supplements. If you vote in favour of this request, please give a sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Belakovich-Jenewein, colleagues on the country of origin principle in the field of minimum security. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of As this request was made by 20 Members, the vote must be taken. Only official votes can be used for the vote. These bear the name of the deputies and the name ‘yes’ – these are the grey ballots – or ‘no’ – which are the pink ones. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put the vote in the votes cast. I would ask those Members who vote in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Belakovich-Jenewein, colleagues, to vote in favour of 'Yes', those who vote against, 'No' vote in favour. Once more of the note: Please be sure you're just throwing a tune in the urn! I now ask the writer, Mrs Lueger, to begin the call for name; Mr Gahr will replace them later.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e10114	The vote will end. The members of the House shall make the number of votes under the supervision of the scribes. I am interrupting the session for a few minutes to this end.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e10156	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote: Members cast: 153; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 24, ‘No’ votes: 129. The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Belakovich-Jenewein, ladies and gentlemen, is therefore rejected. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Anger; Belakovich-Jenewein, Bösch; Darmann, Deimek; Haider, Höbart; Jannach; Karlsböck, Kassinger, Kumpitsch; Laust; Mölzer; Podgorschek; Riemer, Rosenkranz Barbara; Schimanek, Schmid Gerhard, Schrangl, Steger, Strache; Winter, Worm Peter; Singer. Members voted with ‘No’: Alm, Amon, Antoni, Aubauer, Auer, Bacher Walter, Bayr, Becher Ruth, Berlakovich, Brosz, Brunner, Buchmayr, Bures; Cap; Darabos, Diesner Wais, Dietrich, Ecker, Ehmann, El Habbassi, Ertlschweiger, Eßl, Fichtinger Klaus Uwe, Fekter, Fichtinger Angela, Franz; Gahr, Gerstl, Gessl-Ranftl, Glavischnig-Piesczek, Greiner Karin, Grillitsch, Groiß, Grossmann, Gusenbauer-Jäger; Hagen, Hakel Elisabeth, Hammer Michael, Hanger Andreas, Haubner, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Himmelbauer, Hofinger Manfred, Höfinger Johann, Holzinger, Huainigg; Jank, Jarmer, Jarolim; Karl, Katzian, Keck, Kirchgatterer, Knes, Köchl, Kogler, Königsberger-Ludwig, Korun, Krist, Kucharovich, Kucher, Kuntzl, Kuzdas; Lettenbichler, Lichtenecker, Lintl, Lipitsch, Loacker, Lopatka, Lueger Angela, Lugar Robert; Matznetter, Mayer, Meinl-Reisinger, Moser, Muchich, Mückstein, Muttonen; Obernosterer, kilnauer, ottenschlager; Pendl, Pfurtscheller, Pillow, Pirklhuber, Plessl, Preiner, Prince; Rädler, Rauch Johannes, Rossmann; Treasure, Schelhorn, Gift, Scherak, Schieder, Schittenhelm, Schmid Julian, Schmid Julian, Schmier, Schönegger, Schopf, Schultes, Schwentner, Sieber Norbert, Singer Johann, Spindelberger, Steinacker, Steinbichler, Steinhauser, Strasser; Tumandl, daughters, door; sub-railers; Vavrik, Vogl; Walser, Wenninger, Willi, Wimmer, Windbüchler-Sushill, tiny, Wittmann, Wöinger, Worm Gisela; Yılmaz; Zakostelsky.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e10329	We shall continue in the voting process. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 8: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 639 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. Agenda item 9: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its 640 report of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign. - That's the majority. The application is therefore accepted. [[12:35:15]] 10. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (618 d.a._Other Organiser The Federal Act, which amends the General Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Insurance Act, the Agricultural Social Insurance Act, the Civilian Health and Accident Insurance Act, the Employment and Self-Employee Prevention Act, the Unemployment Insurance Act 1977 and the Land Labor Act 1984 (Law on Employment Change). Amendment No 476/A(E) by Mr Peter Wurm, Members of Parliament, on the reduction in social security interest rates, on the Question No 944/A by Mr Mag. Mr Loacker, ladies and gentlemen, on a federal law amending the General Social Security Act, on the Question No 702/A by Mr Mag. Gerald Loacker, colleagues on a federal law amending the General Social Security Act, and on the Question 764/A(E) by Dr Ruperta Lichtenecker, Members of Parliament, on the reduction of SVA interest rates and the application of existing Culance Options (641d.B.) 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 638/A(E) by Mr Marcus Franz, colleagues, on'Half-yearly compulsory rehabilitation training by voluntary institutions at all schools for young people aged 12 and over' (642 d.b.) 12. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the proposal 1008/A by Mr Mag. Judith Schwentner, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law with which the health and health services law (KAKuG), as last amended by the BGBl. I No. 32/2014, as well as the General Social Insurance Act, as last amended by the BGBl. I No. 2/2015, amended (643 d.e.c.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e10453	We now come to points 10 to 12 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. The first woman to speak is Clubobfrau Ing. Dietrich. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e10481	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make a point of order. a very special request, namely our request concerning 'half-yearly compulsory resuscitation training by voluntary institutions at all schools for young people aged 12 and over'. Ladies and gentlemen! Each of us can get to the situation where he needs help, and often it's just the first minute, the first minutes are decisive whether you can continue to live, whether you can get back to being healthy, if you can help. We all sitting here probably already have first-aid courses behind us, but sometimes they've been back too long, so we can't remember exactly. If we had trained first aid every six months in our school years, we would have them so intus that we would, of course, react correctly in the second. That is why we also support the request made by our former colleague Marcus Franz, and I am quite sure that the ÖVP will also support this sensible request and that Marcus Franz will find sufficient time to justify it here so that we can decide together on this sensible measure.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e10523	Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig's next speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e10544	Mr President. Estimated Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I would like to say a few words about the Regulatory Amendment Act. This draft reduces the current reporting obligations. This will allow for very time-consuming data reviews in the future. With this step, we are implementing one of the very big administrative reforms, which, I believe, will be widely approved, because this change is indeed a great relief for the service providers. I'm convinced of that. Many are talking about administrative reform – but Federal Minister Hundstorfer is actually implementing administrative reforms. A great thank you to you, Minister! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The three independent messages that I have already addressed – the insurance period notice, the proof of contributions and the proof of contributions – will be merged. It is only necessary to report more on the basis of contributions and this is a very, very great advantage for employees. They will always be up to date in the future and know how their data has been reported to health insurance companies. I believe that this is really a big step for staff members – one we have been trying to implement for many decades – and I am pleased that we can actually implement it today. I have already said that this will also solve shortcomings. The double messages will also be abolished, so that in the future there will be many clearing cases for service providers and health insurance. As said, it is a great administrative reform for service providers, and also a great relief and a great achievement for servants. The second point in the Government's proposal, which I would like to address briefly, concerns the abolition of the daily limit on low-quality products. This too is a great achievement, because in the future it will no longer be necessary for a daily peak pay, a daily maximum income is calculated, but it only looks at how much you earn monthly, and this will certainly be a great relief for minor employees. In other words, it is also true that you will no longer be in danger of losing transfer payments, and above all, it really remains the whole money in the stock exchange of small employees. The third point concerns the reduction of latent interest rates to 4 percent of the basic interest rate, and this will be a great relief for service providers, especially for smaller service providers. This was also a call from the opposition parties, which we will implement together with this government proposal today. I would also like to say: This was enshrined in the government programme – we are implementing it. There's a lot of thanks to you too, Minister. These were the points on the government template. I would like to take a very brief look at the request that Mr Dietrich has already referred to, to the six-yearly compulsory resuscitation training by voluntary institutions at all schools for young people aged 12 and over. Of course, we welcome it when young people learn first-aid measures in schools. As far as I am aware, it is so that the Red Cross is doing this even now in schools. And in the Committee we have also discussed that we believe that it is perhaps too early for twelve years to actually do rehabilitation training, because one also needs strength, physical strength in order to actually be able to perform a resuscitation. That is why we will reject this request, which provides for compulsory training, but of course we will support all initiatives – if they are on a voluntary basis – to familiarise the children with first aid measures, simply encourage them to provide first aid, because it is often only about mourning, because it is about trusting themselves to actually provide first aid. The last request to which I would like to comment briefly is the request made by Mrs Schwentner concerning a federal law to amend the health and health insurance law as well as the ASVG. We discussed this in committee, Mrs Schwentner, because it is also an important measure, because it is a matter of removing the costs for parents whose children are in hospitals, because it is a very high burden, a financial burden, on the emotional burden. However, the Ministry of Health is responsible for this matter and therefore there will be the assignment to the Health Committee. Let's see what we'll discuss there. I hope we can find a common solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e10609	Now comes Mr Mag. Loacker's word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e10630	Mr President. High house! Yes, as the only group in the committee, we voted against this mandatory amendment law – and we think that important changes are necessary. No one has responded to our criticism in committee. It was felt that the representatives of the government parties did not really look at this, according to the motto: Well, it's meaty. We are waving through what is going on as a government template. There are also a few speeches available: It is likely that Mr Wöginger will be pleased afterwards that the daily limit on low-life is lifted, and that Mr Obernosterer, like Mr Königsberger-Ludwig, will praise the fact that late-rate interest rates for companies are reduced. That's true, but it's only part of the truth, and I'm going to go to the other one. We have tabled a comprehensive amendment. The presentation brings about a massive change in the reporting system, which can only be explained with the pension account and with nothing else. To sum up, the red tape for businesses is being reduced. I don't have to pass a contribution basis once a year, but twelve times a year. The impact-oriented impact assessment provided with the draft government represents a few minutes for the companies administering it. This can only be written by someone who has never done this to himself, who has never produced a basis for contributions. There you are just long on it, and every contribution proof has the effect of calling the health insurance fund and explaining details. That's where you released a bureaucratic bomber to the companies. It's always so hearty: It is always said, especially by the economic politicians, how important the red tape is, and in the Sunday's speeches, one laments – there's always the pühringer – how terrible the bureaucracy is. However, these lip recognitions are then counter-carriaged in the living reality by the social politicians, who – like here – come to understand complex administrative processes. At the daily level: Well, it will be abolished, but there are no uniform rules for registration and cancellation. Each checkout can set the time limits, how to register and check out, which is super-practical for companies that employ persons in several federal states, since they have to look at it extra for each checkout. The possibility of annual payment is also simplified. And: For minor employment, the calendar month shall be considered a reference framework. So I don't look at it, I earn more or less than a minute in 30 days, but I'm looking at a calendar month, so that if we cross monthly borders a different treatment can come out compared to someone who has a small employment relationship within a month. This is also the subject of our amendment. With the reduction of latent interest rates, you lead the citizens around on the nose. While it is urgently necessary to reduce the interest rates for late payment, you will introduce in parallel payment supplements which are at a totally opposite level, which are in no proportion to what has happened to errors. So it is not a seed supplement, it is a penalty, and it is a penalty, and they are built up in such a way that, in the case of minor system errors for a medium-sized company, 50 000 € can be charged to a seed supplement, because I have to transfer a monthly contribution basis and because the penalty is imposed separately on every employee for whom a mistake happens to me. So an error in the computer has an equal x-thousand euro penalty. This lacks the proportionality of this punishment, and the law is so undetermined in the criminal proceedings that it is considered unconstitutional in many opinions made, because it does not comply with the requirement of the necessary determination. The reasons for a deletion from the HFU list are also far too rough and insufficiently specified. You'll be To produce legal uncertainty, and companies are exposed to the discretion of the cash registers. The criticism presented here was not addressed by the Committee. This shows how SPÖ and ÖVP use this house simply to wink their government records. Parliamentary debate is nothing at all. The law is another example of how entrepreneurs are suspected and how to express the lemon of the taxpayer once again. You must not lose a euro, because you have to finance a collective reform called “tax reform” in some way, and any mistake that happens to an entrepreneur – even if it is still so easily negligent – is immediately combated with cash supplements and penalties. And even worse it gets with the social fraud law you have in the pipeline. The rule of law is being trampled on. Social fraud belongs to combat, yes, but with legal means and with an eye, and not with arbitrariness.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e10699	The amendment tabled by Mr Loacker and explained in his broad outlines was in the meantime distributed in the hall. It is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e10869	Next speaker: Mr Wöginger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e10890	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Loacker, as an opposition party with nine mandates, you simply pick out the points that fit you and criticize those who are not at your heart. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: This is our job, I would say!]] [[Abg. Loacker: You can divide the work into 50 mandates!]] We have government responsibility, we must act in the sense of the population in Austria. And there I can't go and say, this point fits me and it doesn't fit. We're not alone in the world. We have a majority with our government partner. We also perceive this majority and act in the sense of the citizens in this country, ladies and gentlemen. These are important measures in this Regulatory Amendment Act. I'm allowed to take three shorts: Point 1, the monthly transmission of the basis of contributions, the wage data. Mr Loacker, there is also a practical advantage and an advantage, including for staff. For example, I don't have to present the health insurance funds personally for sickness or weekly work and pay confirmations, but this is at the push of a button. And this is a service and an improvement in the sense of the employees. Then, even quite clearly – you yourself have made applications for the abolition of the low-quality limit and for the halving of the interest rates of default –: These two elements are contained in this legislative package, the interest on default is halved here to 4 percent, which is an important measure for the service providers. And I would like to make a few comments on the daily level of lowness: We have been following this project for a long time by the ÖVP, now it is also mentioned and passed in the law here. What are we talking about? – We have a large number of people who work little, many pensioners who deserve to do so – we have the amount of earnings up to the statutory retirement age. An example I mention from the gastronomy: There are many people who help in hosts when weddings are when larger celebrations are. Until now, the daily limit on low flexibility has not allowed work to be done for more than three, four, five hours, because the limit – the daily limit – has amounted to 31 €. That is why this daily limit of low-quality is abolished, in the sense of both minor employees and entrepreneurs. In particular, it is small businesses, gastronomy companies, which can thus cover tops in their companies, in their restaurants and in their innhouses. That's an advantage, ladies and gentlemen, for both, it's a win-win situation. We create legal certainty here, no one will be punished if a person has been slightly reported and this activity is also carried out. From my point of view, this is a very important measure, especially in the area of tourism and gastronomy, especially in the rural area, and also in the case of those who want to register and deserve something there. In this sense, it is an important package in the sense of the Austrians.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e10940	Next word: Mr Schellhorn. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e10961	Mr President. Thank you, Minister of State! We're really hard, or you have it easy. Please help me with the jumps, Mr Wöginger – Mr Rädler has said something about Legionaries today – I think: You're 48 plus two, so 50. You can divide it, you can go through the whole law. You mean we're making it easy? – We make it particularly difficult because we put our fingers in the wound everywhere, where you built a bock. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Of course, we also have to say – Mr Loacker has already mentioned it – that there are two positive changes to this law, which you mentioned earlier: those with the scarcity, but also those with the reduction of latent interest rates. But what has not been regulated – and this is actually not my speech – is this wage dumping law and rest periods. Mr Minister, I hope you have had the pleasure of attending a wedding or a festival on weekends in recent times: It doesn't work that way in practice. Since I can speak of the tourism industry and celebrations, I must appeal to you: You have to make a change, otherwise every event at 1 o'clock in the night is cancelled, locked, closed, because the entrepreneur is then with a foot in the criminal. And that can't be it. I think you should go in here. I also spoke to colleagues about the union in this regard. Here you should improve again. But now to my brief contribution as regards the Regulatory Amendment Act: That's positive. Yes, it is positive that the notification of minor employment is facilitated in this respect and that late interest rates are reduced. But basically, the entrepreneur is punished with more bureaucracy. They have done away with red tape – both government parties. Here we note that there is a doubling of the administrative burden – these are the basic contributions – and that there is no relief at all in this respect. I would like to ask you, Mr Minister, to look at the basic contribution report. Have you ever done such a thing before? If the entrepreneur makes only the slightest mistake, he is punished. And I hope you have not included such a high budget item in the tax package that this can be countered by the fight against fraud. It's not a fraud, it's just a punishment for the businessman. In fact, it is also the same way: If the businessmen are well, the employees are also fine. And in this respect, I believe that you are far from debureaucratisation with this mandatory amendment law. And because you mentioned earlier, you don't want to punish companies at all: But with this bill you will punish them at the least error. And that can't be it. With this bill you will also shake through the entrepreneur accordingly, so that he has no more joy. This fits into the overall picture: With the tax package, with the intrusion of all that is now on tourism, there is no longer any joy in entrepreneurship. As long as you don't make it easier, the entrepreneurs have no fun. But then the government has also failed to create jobs – and that is the point: Creating jobs should be your job – and not to make these entire scenarios even more difficult for entrepreneurship with increased red tape. I would also like to say that, of course, the amendment tabled by Mrs Lichtenecker, which, I believe, she will also bring on this item on the agenda today, will be obliged to do so and give our approval. And I ask you, also in this respect: Think of those who create jobs! It's not the government, it's the entrepreneurs. And as long as you don't fire the entrepreneurs as long as you don't finally debureautize the system, it will be even harder for them to create jobs. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e11016	Next came Mr Wurm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e11037	Mr President. Minister! Once again, I would like to express my express thanks for the reduction in the interest rates of default. I'm not always very friendly with you, often very direct. But you see, after a year of struggle, you can also implement sensible things as an opposition party. That is, I believe, in the sense of all of us, especially small and medium-sized enterprises. One must not forget that we are talking here about a volume of around €80 million that entrepreneurs had to pay, and that has now been halved at least half. And that's certainly a sensible story once again, so that businesses can work easier again. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The basic issue is growth, because unemployment can only be combated by economic growth. We have a problem here, of course. I would like to remind you that we had a 1.7 percent economic growth forecast for 2014 and that it was really 0.3 percent. And unfortunately, I also see little initiative from your government to actively boost economic growth. It was yesterday the Vice-President of the European Commission, Mr Katainen, here in the House and has also explained this Juncker plan with the from €21 billion will then become €300 billion, which will boost European growth and reduce unemployment in Europe. I have to say, a very nice idea, but it seems to me a little bit like a dream world when you ask what's behind it. The wish is there, I think, greater than reality will be then. Nor can I imagine how €21 billion will be €300 billion, which he has not been able to explain to us yesterday. It's clear: In principle, it takes three things to start investment. If someone really has money and wants to invest, he especially wants stability, security. The second thing he wants is a profit. In Europe, accepting stability and security is a real wish, because next week Greece can explode, and in a year maybe England will leave the EU. That means that the European Union is already called upon to make once more stability, trust, security and then to offer more or less of a profit to investors, and this is missing both at the time. In other words, I cannot imagine that investors will invest in the EU sector, especially not – that is interesting – in those EU countries where the euro applies. This is rather a bit better where the euro does not apply, see Sweden. For me, an important thing would be in Austria. It is also a bit strange, Mr Minister, because the desire for the 30-hour week comes from the SPÖ Group, six weeks of vacation, overtime taxation with 1 euro – that is all the measures that would not invigorate the economy or detach it. I would ask you once again to give the economy more freedom, opportunities for the economy to expand, because, once again, one thing is clear: Jobs are created exclusively in the economy, in the private sector, and we need to support them in the long term. Summary: I am glad that we have now carried out this interest-rate reduction programme on this path, you as Minister of Consumer Protection. You know, I have been fighting for more than a year for the reduction of latent interest rates for private individuals, for citizens. Even here, as has been said, some 300-fold surcharges continue to apply to citizens when they have overburdened their accounts. I hope that the government, ÖVP and SPÖ, will at last become aware of and reduce to a normal degree the interest rate for the citizens of Austria, similar to the business community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e11104	Next, Mrs Mag. Schwentner speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e11126	Mr President. Minister! Dear viewers! There is a very large amendment concerning the Government template 618 of the Supplements. I'm going to explain this a little, as prescribed. It is a matter of several points: On the one hand, it is about the conversion of reporting obligations, as mentioned several times. This is a step of which we also believe that it is absolutely supportive, because it simply goes in the right direction, namely towards harmonisation – in so far as it is fully supported on our part. The next point, which has now been discussed several times, is the abolition of the daily limit. We do not believe that this is the right access – to one, because we have always been against the fact that there is at all a shortage limit. I don't know what that is at all – a fictitious limit, because what does this amount refer to? We would call at all for the abolition of the limit on low-qualityness, since this amount is not comprehensible, but also for the protection of employees' insurance. In other words, that is the second point in this proposal. We have another point concerning the withdrawal of reporting data from the registration of employment. That's what workers' chamber and others say that it would have been better to bring in other reporting data as well. There is also a proposal from us in the amendment. The fourth point is the reduction of default interest, a non-disputed point. I do not understand one thing – and we have said that in the Committee again and again: It is about the fact that companies in social security can make debt in a little bit, and I do not understand why all companies are thrown into a pot, why especially the small companies, the one-person companies, the small and medium-sized enterprises – 90 percent of the companies involved – are not taken into account as big ones. This is about very direct difficulties and the need to support them. In this respect, we want to distinguish between one-person companies, small and medium-sized enterprises and larger enterprises. I would ask at least for consideration and support regarding this differentiation. One point I would like to address now, apart from what I have said about the request, is the request for 'half-yearly compulsory rehabilitation training by voluntary institutions at all schools for young people aged 12 and over' by Mr Marcus Franz. I find it very exciting in parliamentary terms: The request was tabled by him as a representative of the Stronach team and rejected by the ÖVP very vehemently, understandably, also by us, for what is it about? – Mr Franz wants to force young children, 12-year-olds, to take regular revitalisation courses – small children, who cannot be required in any way in this regularity, nor can they be held responsible if they do not trust or trust it in a particular situation. This is almost absurd and not comprehensible, and so I understood the rejection of the ÖVP very, very well at that time. Now I'm very excited how to make this bow go from one party to another: You're voting against it now? Are you going out? Voices You alone for your request? Please let me know! I am excited about how this goes on, because there were several requests from you, which were always astounding again and again, I would say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e11192	The amendment, which Mrs Schwentner has just put forward in his broad outlines, which has been distributed in the meantime in the Chamber, is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e11819	Next speaker: Federal Minister Hundstorfer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e11841	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I just want to focus on a few things and try to clarify something. Point one: Punishment is only more likely to occur in the event of infringements of registration before the start of work. If it is violated, there are penalties, the rest is deleted. Point two: I'd have a big bit to say about the tumults. Whoever criticizes this, may read § 114 completely, because there is also something new, namely forbearance. The forbearance can very well give all the seed supplements. That means you can express a forbearance, that is, I think, something new, too. I would also like to say something in general, because it is highly criticised here that we are building a new bureaucracy. We are not building up any new bureaucracy at all, but we are trying to cut red tape, because I think that many companies in Austria are no longer making the pay bill at all, the wage accounting is out of stock somewhere. There is, for example, in Graz a pay conversion company that serves, I think, 500 Austrian construction companies and, and, and, a lot of running computer support. So if the internal reporting system works, everything should be fine – and it cannot fail because, for example, the seed supplements can or should not be applied after seven days. Seven days are not a day, half a day, or an hour. In other words, this cannot be the case, because we know, of course, that we have many small and medium-sized enterprises, which, of course, also have their processes, no question. But I think this is very much an improvement, because if an employee in a company needs something from health insurance, this is very bureaucratic today. He must say in the company: I need a pay confirmation and, and, and. – All this falls away, all this will be history, so I would ask you to think it through once in a while. I assume that small and medium-sized enterprises do not really suffer, because the people who are employed there also get a reward, that is, it has to do anything. It is – usually – not so that the remuneration is not paid, and many do not have a topic at all. The following is: Yeah, we're negotiating. The trade unions and the Chamber of Commerce, especially the hotel industry, the Hotel section, are currently negotiating how to make a few things more flexible in working time and working time. I started these talks, I started them last week. The social partners will do this over the next eight weeks, which is also part of the last round of collective agreements. I assume that this will be implemented accordingly. I would have a request for objectivity: Although some do not like it, we do not talk about an overtime euro without mentioning the reduction in the health insurance contribution, because that is the discharge. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I do nothing but move €200 million. I'm no longer burdening, but I'm moving this idea only €200 million. That is the difference, and I would like to say that. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] Mrs Schwentner, you have spoken here of one-person companies: As the name says, they have no employees, so there are other laws there – point one. Point two: We have allowed ourselves, in the course of the tax reform, to reduce the minimum contribution basis for their social security in a very massive way, especially for one-person companies, because these companies, of course, have enormous problems with various contribution bases from the past. This too will be repaired in the future, and I thank those who now agree for their approval. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Mr Worm, it is clear that you are now trying to jump on the train. [[Intervocations of MEPs Schimanek and Peter Wurm.]] You too have called for it, but you are only one of many who have called for it, I just want to maintain it, because that has been a massive issue for many years in the Austrian economy. [[Abg. Schimanek: Mitterlehner!]] As you have not yet been able to do so in this House, Mr Obernosterer and others have already made such a request as to how we are dealing with payment payments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e11905	I call Mr Keck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e11927	Mr President. Federal Minister! In a motion for a resolution, Mr Franz called for a ‘half-yearly compulsory resuscitation training by voluntary institutions at all schools for young people aged 12 and over’. He writes in his accompanying text: “Every human being can get into the situation of needing first aid, and then depend on a first helper being in place. The More People First aid can be provided, the bigger this opportunity will be.” In the following text everything is right, of course we can agree to it fully, but this is a text that he has taken over from the homepage of the Austrian Red Cross. He has inserted it so that he can come with his demands. I looked at this: on point and addition a text from the homepage of the Austrian Red Cross. But what is the aim of this proposal, ladies and gentlemen? – The aim of the application would be to reduce cardiovascular stems in emergency situations by really well-trained first-aids. In principle, such a measure, i.e. if you do such a thing, is to be welcomed, but what does this request mean in practice? The aim of this programme is to provide this training for children aged 12 and over. So what does such a measure mean in practice? In Austria, there is a commitment to provide first aid according to its personal possibilities. This could mean that if you don't have a training, you can go to the phone and call the rescue. However, if you have regular mandatory resuscitation courses, then there is also the obligation to perform resuscitation, ladies and gentlemen. What does it mean to perform resuscitation? – I was very, very many years of sanitizer myself, and when you get into the situation of having to do resuscitation, you're under extreme mental and physical stress – psychologically because you're under enormous pressure to do everything right at this moment to save a life. If you can't save this life because it was perhaps too late because you might have come too late, then you always ask yourself the question for a very long time: Did I do everything right? Did everything work out what I did there? – Mr Franz's request is now aimed at the fact that twelve-year-old children also ask these questions when they get to the situation. Ladies and gentlemen, do you know what it means physically to do resuscitation? You have to push down a chest basket three to four inches, and that for minutes, maybe a quarter of an hour, 20 minutes – you get first-aid values like a high-performance sportsman, and that's what you want to think of a 12-year-old child? It is precisely these reasons why this is not reasonable for a child and we also reject this request. I think the Austrian boy red cross offers really age-appropriate courses at the schools. These courses are sufficient to stay there. I have looked at Mr Franz's requests: He made the same request in April 2014, but he still called for the resuscitation courses for ten-year-old children. We have just rejected this in committee – now he has just called for it for twelve-year-old children. I am excited whether he is now doing this in the new group, because I think that there will be a little more reasonable and not let him make these requests, otherwise it can be expected that he will be here in a year with the same request for 14-year-old children.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e11988	Mr Grillitsch is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e12009	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, we can use red tape and administrative measures to reduce red tape. In addition, there is a need to improve the quality of life and to improve the quality of life and the quality of life and the quality of life. I think, Mr Schellhorn, that should not be a bad thing from the outset if the train goes in the right direction. There is then a “earlier” – and better – “availability and transparency of the individual contribution bases”, a “reorganisation of the provisions on penalties relating to reporting infringements”, a “rebursement of the contributors (debt-rate reduction...), a “simplification of wage settlement” and the like more. I really mean that this law is going in the right direction, and therefore I also say that we have to think about how we can take further steps. Each of us knows that we have a lot to do, especially in the social security sector. We simply need to have an open discussion here in the House about the structure of social security schemes in Austria. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] Do we not have too many in times like these with 21 social insurance companies in Austria? Are there a few or just one health insurance fund for all of Austria? [[Bravorufe at the Stronach team.]] – We should discuss this openly, because I believe that there is a structural and financial potential. This can be discussed quietly across parties, openly, and you can also receive applause. That's what I'm saying, and that's what I'm standing for. I mean, just because I am from Styria, I can also say here in the House today that I am glad that this reform partnership, this future partnership with the right man at the top, namely Hermann Schützenhofer, will continue. We should take this as an example: Where in politics two partners have found themselves to think not only of the party but of the interests of the people of this country, of the interests of the Austrians.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e12073	Mrs Lichtenecker has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e12094	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Minister, it is indeed an important and necessary step today that the interest rates for default should now be reduced to 4 percent, and that has its good reason. For many years I have been regularly asking questions as to how late-rates and the burden on the insured in the social security of the industrial economy are. In fact, these were always very impressive numbers. The last figures I have available now refer to 2013, since it was said and written 270 000 insured persons who had to pay late interest rates, and that amounted to more than €36.4 million. – That’s why I think it’s actually been a long time. The Minister has always replied in response to the questions: Yes, there's something to do, we'll see when this goes out – and today it's so far. That is why it is pleasing, and I would like to mention a few other figures which have resulted from the answer to the question which cannot otherwise be read in this form. For example, late payment of interest was also affected by new founders in the fourth year, namely almost 14 000 who had to pay. In addition, 4 599 new founders also flattered an execution request in the house. This is a problem for the new founders, for the one-person companies, for the micro-enterprises who had to fight with it, so an important next step has been taken here. Because it has always been disputed that they could apply for interest payments or a general decree, it should be noted that very few people do. In fact, there were just 546 cases in which interest on default was partially or completely reduced. Given the large sum of more than 270 000 people see that this was not really relevant. Nevertheless, we also have a large number of entrepreneurs who have benefited from interest payments, namely to the 40 400. Nevertheless, we believe that we still need action to improve the situation for one-person companies and micro-enterprises, so the Green Group has the proposal to change this, namely to use the basic interest rate plus 2 percent for the EPOs and a basic interest rate plus 3 percent for the micro-enterprises – up to nine employees. . We believe that this would be a great relief and would also be pleased if this request was supported by the other political groups. Nevertheless, the 4 percent are a good step today – and, as has been said, all other construction sites that are open must be taken quickly and solutions should be implemented within the meaning of the new founders, the SMEs, the one-person companies, in order to actually create improved framework conditions for the economy.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e12145	Mr Knes. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e12167	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I would like to comment on the Regulatory Amendment Act. It is a shame that Mr Loacker is not here, but Mr Schellhorn – Yes, the seat order has been changed. [[Deputies Loacker and Schellhorn make themselves felt by handsigns and calls.]] Thank you. [[Deputies Lo acker and Schellhorn: No!]] You said today that there was a bureaucratic effort. Thank God is not so at all; the Federal Minister mentioned it in his remarks. I would also like to thank the Committee as a whole very much for those who have contributed positively to this Amendment Act, but I also take your words very seriously. What does that mean what you said here today? – You mentioned the problem of small and small enterprises, namely those with small employees, and here we have brought together a substantial change: We have got rid of the daily limits of 31 € – which has already fallen today – and have extended this to a monthly weakness. That means exactly in your area, in the gastronomy, where you think the law is wrong, that in the future, when a wedding is celebrated in a hotel or in a inn, you must also be a little eight to ten hours, but just in the month not exceed the maximum measurement. This has nothing to do with your approach at all; this has to be clarified. The second essential reason, however, is – and this is also highly criticised by you – a simplification, namely a reduction in red tape in the reporting system, which means that every micro and small business operator can deliver their messages via PC in the future. What you are saying is that a supplement comes immediately, because the criminal provisions are coming, is also not correct, because we also have a six-month post-treatment period in this law. So if one of you in six months doesn't manage to make a correct report, then he's not an entrepreneur for me anyway. In this sense, we can look forward to the law with joy. Thank you to all those who have worked constructively on it, thank you to the Federal Minister for this far-sighted view and thank you very much for your broad support in this provision of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e12206	Mr Obernosterer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e12228	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and at home in front of the TV screens! My previous speaker and some of the previous speakers have already mentioned this: I think this is an important point for the gastronomy, for the hotel industry. We know that the tourism industry has not always been blessed in the past with the many requirements, regulations and with what has now been done in the tax reform, but today we have really taken a step in practice. Especially the many small country houses and small farms will do much easier in the future, because the daily shortage limit has been abolished. As my previous speaker has already said, we can now host weddings, discuss church days with employees who – especially in the country that is important – deserve something in the pension by the way, or if someone else helps. You can sum up a few hours up to a maximum limit of € 406 per month; this can also be done on two weekends. Previously, only 31 € had the opportunity to work about two and a half hours or a maximum of three hours a day. Do you know what's going on?- Oh, my God! – This change is quite, very important! There is also another topic that is very important especially for the country guest houses and for the gastronomy: There is a clear agreement with the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of Finance and the social partners to ensure the possibility of family support in family farms. In this respect, I would also say that we need to see that we come to a legal regime, a legal security. We already know today that almost never a punishment is pronounced when such a thing is shown when a family member is found at work with his son or daughter, but there are surveys and pre-loadings that are then made. Let's save ourselves this bureaucracy and see that we're still bringing it into the law! We are in conversation with the Minister of Social Affairs and also believe that we are still coming to a good and proper end in the sense of the many small family farms. As I said, this is really a point that is quite, very important for practice: that you can work when work is present, and that we simply, like the Federal Minister has also mentioned, now that negotiations between the social partners – the trade union and the gastronomy and hotel industry representatives – have resulted in a liberalized working time, because we know that gastronomy, the hotel industry is not an industrial business. It's easy to work when the guests are there. I hope that a reasonable and proper regulation will not go at the expense of the employees, where the employees will still be paid for everything clearly. No one wants to demand more than is possible by law, but we need more liberal working hours in our industry, because our industry, the hotel industry and the gastronomy, with an industrial company, with the turning on and off of machines, is simply not comparable. If we want to remain fair to the name that Austria is still a strong tourist country, we must also go with time, as has been said, in agreement with the social partners. We know that tourism has shown, especially in economically difficult times, that we are also stable there. Mr Federal Minister, it is also appropriate to praise if this is implemented. This is a very, very important step for us in practice, because we have simply come to legal certainty with the abolition of the daily poverty limit, and the next step is voluntary cooperation in the family association. Then, in many points that have not done us well, there has been a lot of success now, and we can say: We have really helped the small business structure in the tourism industry, the many host companies, with debureaucratisation and liberalisation. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e12279	Mr Dr Franz came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e12300	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! As a doctor, I am concerned today with something very important, namely life-saving measures by improving first-aid training. I have made the request that the first-aid training in schools be raised to a national obligation that young people should take such a course once in the semester. This would definitely help save lives. I am currently convincing my group and all of you that first aid is a really vital issue. We must set ourselves up here mentally and also involve young people. I know that in the Health Committee, the Stronach team was the only party for it, and the others were against it – but the point is coming right away. Why is this issue so important? – In Austria, about 15,000 people die suddenly every year. Many of these would definitely be safe, according to serious estimates and studies by emergency doctors about 10 percent if we had a comprehensive, effective and good first-aid training of citizens. This is so worldwide, there are valid data, scientifically collected. Prerequisite for this is just a good first aid, and you can't start early enough to train the people and the children. Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard of physical strength and so on, and all this is so difficult and not to conjure up for the children. I already filed the request last year, and unfortunately he was rejected. However, an unknown Vienna Social Democrats, namely Mr. Mayor Häupl, has taken up the proposal and said that he will introduce first-aid courses for all in the third-class public school with this year – this year introduced by Mayor Michael Häupl. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: first-aid courses, not resuscitation courses! That's shameless!]] Ladies and gentlemen from the Socialist Group, I would like to look at what the Vienna people are doing, perhaps you can learn something for the first aid – that would not be so bad. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] This also applies to green. So please, the power of children is apparently present. People's students in the third class are not yet 12 years old, but usually nine years old, and they are meant to do so. I even have a photo where Mr Mayor has already demonstrated this training. [[The speaker holds a printed photo in height.]] I think that's good. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: First aid, not resuscitation, there's already a difference!]] I am sure that I will soon have convinced my own group, and I believe that we will be able to implement this project with the well-known good voluntary aid organisations – Red Cross, for example. [[Abg. Brosz: In the Stronach team one makes resuscitation and in the ÖVP is enough first help!]] The Red Cross is ready and wants and will do this training with us. I have a little bit of persuasion to do. This is the first step, and of course this request will come back. Believe me, I am not going to give up, because saving life is an extremely important measure, if not even the most important one in this world. If the Social Democrats do not want to go along as a coalition partner, then they can take first aid relief from Mayor Häupl, who does so in Vienna with the folk schools, as said. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Yes, first aid!]] Ladies and gentlemen, one last sentence: It is not only a question of preventing human tragedy, but also of preventing economic damage from the Republic. There are studies that say that in Austria the sudden heart death causes €700 million costs. There would also be a lot to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e12402	Mr Hundstorfer spoke on a point of view. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e12424	Mr President. Dr. Franz, at least you have the reputation of being a really very, very serious physician and working very serious. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] [[Abg. Brosz: Again a coalition partner!]] – No, don’t be angry with me now, please let’s stay serious! The mayor of Vienna has suggested offering child-friendly first-aid courses in the public school. That was what he urged, that was what I think is meant. We're talking about first-aid courses. They're talking about resuscitation courses, compulsory from the 12th year of life. I think – and there are a few of us who are medically trained – between resuscitation courses for a twelve-year-old and a first-aid basic course for a child is a difference such as day and night. [[Abg. Franz keeps a photo up again.]] And that's what it's all about. Mr. Mayor's not talking about resuscitation. No, he's talking about first-aid courses, and there, excuse me, there's a little bit of a difference. [[Call the ÖVP: Without Defi!]] I know this is a subject, and I know about the national accounts. If every adult in First Aid had basic knowledge, we could help a lot, no question at all, there I am entirely with you. But we're talking about kids here, and I think we should really discuss the subject again in peace, especially the mandatory resuscitation we should leave to adults, not children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e12481	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur or the rapporteur wish to have a final word? - That's not the case. We now come to a very extensive voting process, and I therefore ask for attention! We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 10: Draft Amending Act in 618 of the Supplements. There is a supplementary or amendment tabled by the honourable Member, Mr Mag. Mr Schwentner, ladies and gentlemen, as well as a motion for an amendment tabled by the honourable Member, Mr Mag. Mr Loacker, ladies and gentlemen. I shall therefore first of all vote on the parts of the legislative proposal concerned by the supplementary or amending proposals and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Mag. Schwentner, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment on Article 1(1) and (2). If you're here, I'll ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall immediately vote on these parts of the draft law as it stands. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for a sign of approval. – This is largely accepted. Deputies Mag. Schwentner, colleagues and others have tabled an additional request concerning the insertion of new points 2a to 2c into Article 1. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a sign. – That is rejected. Deputies Mag. Mr Schwentner, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment on Article 1(3). Whoever is here, I ask him for a sign. – That is rejected. We shall immediately vote on this part of the draft law as it stands. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for an acceptable sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Deputies Mag. Loacker, colleagues and others have tabled an amendment concerning Article 1(4). Whoever stands for it, I ask for a sign. – That is rejected. We shall immediately vote on this part of the draft law as it stands. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for an acceptable sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Deputies Mag. Mr Schwentner, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment on Article 1(5). Whoever is here, I ask him for a sign. – That is rejected. We shall immediately vote on this part of the draft law as it stands. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for an acceptable sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Deputies Mag. Loacker, colleagues and others have tabled an amendment concerning Article 1(10). Whoever stands for it, I ask for a sign. – That is rejected. We shall immediately vote on this part of the draft law as it stands. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for an acceptable sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Deputies Mag. Schwentner, colleagues and others have tabled an additional request concerning the insertion of a new point 11a into Article 1. Whoever is here, I ask him for a sign. – That is rejected. Deputies Mag. Schwentner, colleagues and others have tabled an amendment concerning Article 1(16). Whoever stands for it, I ask for a sign. – That is rejected. Deputies Mag. Loacker, colleagues and others have also tabled an amendment concerning Article 1(16). Whoever is here, I ask him for a sign. – That is rejected. We shall immediately vote on this part of the draft law as it stands. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. Deputies Mag. Schwentner, colleagues and others have tabled an additional proposal concerning the insertion of a new point 19a into Article 1. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a sign. – That is rejected. Deputies Mag. Loacker, colleagues and others have tabled an amendment concerning Article 1(22). Whoever is here, I ask him for a sign. – That is rejected. We shall immediately vote on this part of the draft law as it stands. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. Deputies Mag. Schwentner, colleagues and others have tabled an additional request concerning the insertion of a new point 24a into Article 1. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a sign. – That is rejected. Deputies Mag. Loacker, colleagues and others have tabled an amendment concerning Article 1(28). If you're here, I'll ask him for a sign. – That is rejected. We shall immediately vote on this part of the draft law as it stands. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. Deputies Mag. Schwentner, colleagues and others have tabled an amendment concerning Article 1(33) and (34). Whoever stands for it, I ask for a sign. – That is rejected. We shall immediately vote on these parts of the draft law as it stands. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. Deputies Mag. Schwentner, colleagues and others have tabled an additional request concerning the insertion of new points 34a to 34d into Article 1. Whoever is here, I ask him for a sign. – That is rejected. Deputies Mag. Mr Schwentner, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment concerning Article 1(35). Whoever stands for it, I ask for a sign. – That is rejected. Deputies Mag. Loacker, colleagues and others have also tabled an amendment concerning Article 1(35). Whoever is here, I ask him for a sign. – That is rejected. We shall immediately vote on this part of the draft law as it stands. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. Deputies Mag. Loacker, colleagues and others have tabled an amendment concerning Article 2 and Article 3. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a sign. – That is rejected. We shall immediately vote on these parts of the draft law as it stands. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for an acceptable sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Deputies Mag. Schwentner, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment on Article 4(1). Whoever is here, I ask him for a sign. – That is rejected. We shall immediately vote on this part of the draft law as it stands. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for an acceptable sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Deputies Mag. Loacker, colleagues and others have tabled an amendment concerning Article 4(4). Whoever stands for it, I ask for a sign. – That is rejected. We shall immediately vote on this part of the draft law as it stands. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for an acceptable sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Deputies Mag. Mr Schwentner, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment on Article 5(2). Whoever is here, I ask him for a sign. – That is rejected. Deputies Mag. Loacker, colleagues and others have also tabled an amendment concerning Article 5(2). Whoever stands for it, I ask for a sign. – That is rejected. We shall immediately vote on this part of the draft law as it stands. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. Deputies Mag. Schwentner, colleagues and others have tabled an amendment relating to Articles 6 and 7. Whoever is here, I ask him for a sign. – That is rejected. We shall immediately vote on these parts of the draft law as it stands. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for an acceptable sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt in the version of the Government template. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted by a majority of the third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 11: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 642 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. [[Abg. Brosz: Where is the Franz? Did he fall?]] – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 12: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 643 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. I agree with the proposal 1008/A to the Committee on Health. [[13:44:01]] 13. Point report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment 462/A(E) by Mrs Herbert Kickl, colleagues on the complete abolition of luxury pensions and pension privileges at all levels of the Republic of Austria (644b.) 14. Subject: Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 553/A(E) by Mr Werner Neubauer, Mr Neubauer, on the urgency of measures against inflation. (645 d.a.) 15. Point report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment 919/A(E) by Mrs Ing. Waltraud Dietrich, colleagues on public service “Pension monitoring” (646 d.b.) 16. Point report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 1159/A(E) by Mr Mag. Gerald Loacker, colleagues on the introduction of a proper partial pension (647 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e12578	We come to points 13 to 16 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mrs. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein has spoken. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e12605	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Once again, we have the topic of luxury pensions on the agenda. Mr Federal Minister, you know this is a subject that will accompany us for a long time. A little more than a year ago, we negotiated here, and you have brought a new law in the course of which you have said, so you want and you will abolish the luxury pensions. For good reason, we did not vote in favour at the time, and I say to you: Yes, it was a way in the right direction, Mr. Federal Minister, you have taken the issue – this is very honorable – but you have not even stopped half way. They have actually done nothing to abolish luxury pensions. I'll explain that to you more precisely now. The first thing you did at the time was that you said: After the long negotiations, the evil liberals have said that they are not going along! You didn't understand. What did you really do? – They have said that the luxury pensions, the countries and their establishments are not within the Constitution. We do not need to put this into the Constitution, because all countries will participate. Don't do that! We'll see that didn't happen. The next point, which we have also strongly criticized, was that you have the highest score base and not the double ASVG-pension as a basis. people. At the time, we have already pointed out that the maximum basis of assessment is going to rise in a leap, and that is the case. Therefore, the luxury pensions are also rising, and it would be a good and consistent way of doing your part, if you were to do this now. But they're going to sit down and say, I'm the only one who's ever done something there, and that's why that's enough. Mr Federal Minister, I know you can't go to the National Bank now. It may be particularly painful for you that you may not be able to have lunch with Mr. Novotny anymore – I understand that from your point of view – but it does not make you more credible. I think that would be credible. It is only then, if, for example, you are no longer expected to enter the city hall in Vienna, because the luxury pensions will finally be abolished there, which the top officials or those who are in the outsourced establishments will receive, if there were to be no more luxury pensions there. And that is exactly what we are blaming you, Minister of State. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They haven't even stopped half way. Therefore, it is necessary – and this is also the reason why we are constantly taking this issue up again – to continue in this regard, because it is also in the sense of justice; moreover, in the sense of all those who now have losses towards those who are not affected by it, because they are by chance in another body. That's something I can't understand, that you're leaning down there and saying it's all in the best order. I know you're gonna get up today and knock back on your shoulder. And yes, I recognize that you have taken a step here – I have already told you in committee – but that is just too little. That was a step, but now we really have to put the other actions in place. Therefore, I would ask you to finally continue and try to ensure that the luxury pensions that are still available do not continue to rise exorbitantly, and that it will be so far in the future that, in the sense of an Article 15a agreement, the countries will be taken on board.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e12663	Mr Muchitsch is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e12684	Mr President. Federal Minister! I should like to comment on the two requests made by the Liberals concerning luxury pensions and the rate of inflation. We have discussed this countless times, the arguments have been exchanged countless times, and we are going to reject these two requests by the SPÖ today, quite simply because – Mrs Belakovich-Jenewein has said so – the Minister of State has taken the first steps and everything that was legally possible or in his sphere of influence has also been implemented accordingly. Apart from that, your request does not clearly indicate – I say it once again – what extent should be justified or included as regards your position. The fact is, this also applies to the rate of inflation that the FPÖ on the one hand has repeatedly pointed out the need to look at everything, from care providers, minimum insurance providers to compensation beneficiaries, and on the other hand, you are the ones who make an application for measures against inflation. The fact is that the number of compensation beneficiaries is increasing – we have 240 000 people. This also has a reason that you unfortunately want to be silent and you don't want to remember, it was you who were perpetrators in 2002 and 2003 when it came to reducing pensions by the 2002/2003 pension reduction reform. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm]] Now, of course, we have the following situation: They were the ones who increased the fees, including those who are no longer able to work longer due to health, i.e. they must go to a disability or incapacity pension. It was you who increased the fees and extended the calculation basis to the lifetime. On the other hand, of course, we have much more compensatory allowances. So a little bit of unfair work is already being done in this respect, which is not okay. That is why we shall also reject both requests.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e12729	Mrs Mag. Mag. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Schwentner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e12751	Mr President. Minister! Dear viewers! I would just like to focus on two points: One is the FPÖ's request concerning luxury pensions and the other concerning partial pension, request by NEOS. We will vote in favour of the request concerning luxury pensions, as we have done before. Nevertheless, I would like to say here that exactly the steps were necessary to get on with the subject at all, this is a rather serious constitutional one, because this is about protecting the trust of people in their pension – that is not easy, easy to do away with. To ignore this over and over again, Mrs Belakovich-Jenewein, I think I am now really unscrupulous. It is about – and that is why we are still doing – that we also want to go towards a uniform pension system in which everyone can pay the same number and accordingly also find out which is fair and that is the same for all – to end with these many different systems. The direction of luxury pensions has not supported you, I would just like to remind you once again; but it was a necessary step, and it was the only reason for us to negotiate for a long and extensive time and also to reclaim us. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: For good reason!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That is why I miss this, and I can only take the quick shots that come out half seriously, but as I said: because we also want to go towards a uniform pension system, we still support it. As for the part-board, I would also like us to have the right one, and a further discussion, which can be a good pension system for all. There was yesterday the NEOS survey on the subject, which was not uninteresting; the Swedish model you are now propagating is not contradictory either. I am rather on the critical side, yet I recognise the ability and the willingness to allow opinions in this House at all divergent and to discuss them, because I think such events should take place more often, so that we can really continue. In this sense, we do not give our consent to this request, but to the discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e12798	Mr Huainigg has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e12820	Mr President. Minister! High house! I would like to address two issues which were also the subject of the Committee, namely the provision of assistance and the care of people with disabilities. Last week we had a guest in Austria, the Vice-President of the Mosambican Parliament, who is sitting in the wheelchair himself. I visited the White Court with him, a rehabilitation center, and he was very fascinated and amazed at what tools there are, and what this means for people with disabilities, that they can work with prostheses again, that they can also handle their daily lives much easier, even by small aids such as a non-slip base, so that the plate doesn't slip down – this happens to him very often because he can't move his hands. Especially the provision of aid is important for disabled people that they can live inclusively and equally in the midst of society. That is why we have also set out in the government programme that there should be an aid provision in accordance with the One Desk principle that a disabled person who needs a wheelchair or other aid is not sent from one carrier to another and must wait a long time until the application is approved or rejected. That is to say, there should be only one place where the application is made, and this body will coordinate it with the other possible cost providers such as country, pension insurance institution, local health insurance fund and so on. I believe that the Social Service would be a good point of contact in this respect, since it is very well known in the area of people with disabilities. I know, Minister, that you are also engaged in this and are in conversation with the countries. So I hope that this will also be a good solution. The second issue I would like to address is the Health and Hospital Care Act, which is under review. The system is being re-regulated in the hospital where the care assistant is introduced, only this system cannot be used for the mobile and the area of the disabled facilities. There it must not only be determined by care, but it must also be possible for disabled people to perform care services, which are delegated by nurses, as it also works very well with personal assistance, because the lives of disabled people must be normalized and must not only be geared to care, but also care must be subordinated. That is why I am looking for the GuKG to provide for its own rules for the outpatient sector and for the disabled – this is really necessary. Nothing is contained in the current draft, and I would ask that it should be made a real priority, because a normalized life for disabled people is a way of seeing human dignity, and human dignity is also enshrined in the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e12860	Mrs Ing. Dietrich. - Please, Mrs. Klubobfrau.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e12881	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! In reality, it is a shame if we still need to talk about luxury pensions today and that they have not long been abolished. It would be a great sign of the large parties if their old politicians were to go ahead with a good example and give up on these pensions. But on this subject my colleague Robert Lugar will make a detailed statement. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig.]] My point I would like to talk about is public pension monitoring. This too is long overdue, civil servants' privileges are guarded like a secret of office. No wonder, the Austrian officials, especially the top officials, are occupied in the proporz system of red and black, and then you run clientele policy, looking at His, and the sacred cow early board is almost not attacked at all. The Court of Auditors strongly criticises that there are no open figures in this area, little clear monitoring, and we also join in this criticism. At all events, the ASVGlers are those who are constantly asked by the State to cash out. I remember that since 1955 the births in the ASVG sector have been drastically worse than the officials in whom this was only effective from 1976 onwards. That means: 21 years already. I ask you: Is that really fair? – From our point of view not at all! Ladies and gentlemen, the costs in the social field are going to explode. We don't have anything left to give. When we look at the pension area, they exploded from 18 billion to 41 billion from 1995 to 2013. And if we look at the age pyramid and see that fewer and fewer young people are enrolling in the system, then it is high time for a fair, transparent system that treats all people equally. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Privileges should have been in the past for a long time. Privileged policies have no place, no more than artistic policy. Mrs. State Secretary Steßl presented a pension monitoring for the first time. I'm telling you, the numbers speak for themselves: 23.9 percent of the federal staff went to retirement in 2014 with a regular retirement age. That means: just a quarter. But the positive was an increase of 10 percent, because a year before that, 2013, it was such that only 13.9% retired with the regular retirement age. 87 percent have retired earlier. As an official, this is not a problem, because you can earn it right away, in contrast to the ASVGler, it is another privilege that has long been a member of the past. Ladies and gentlemen, even your senior speakers, Blecha and Khol, say that this pension monitoring has long been the right measure and is an important step. Then there could really be a sunray that runs a path through the pension jungle of privileges and the economy of friends. In this sense: A clear yes to pension monitoring. – A warm thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e12945	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e12966	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Dearly modest Auditorium! [[pointing empty rows of seats in the plenary room]] Appreciate viewers at the gallery! The pension area is such a subject in which the Minister of the Federal Government is actively lagging behind. Something happens visually, but if you feel the whole thing on the tooth, nothing happens. The injustice between the boys and the old, but especially between the different categories of pensioners remains more or less untouched. We will be sold the partial board under review as progress. The new sub-pension, Mr Minister, you know this very well, however, can't do anything that age part-time can do, it only gives 100 per cent of the cost of the businesses instead of 90 per cent, which is why it doesn't do anything. [[Federal Minister Hundstorfer: Completely wrong!]] There will also be no one who would otherwise have retired in a partial pension à la Hundstorfer, but there will be people in a partial pension according to your method that would otherwise have been in part-time. So they do not like the system at all, so the impact-oriented impact assessments, which are provided with the draft, are suitable for the Schredder, and for nothing else. In total, it is a painting of the statistics, but nothing is really done. The topic of luxury pensions has already been carried out: If FPÖ leans so far, this does not correspond to the way in which it intervened when the Special Pension Restriction Act was negotiated in the previous year. There would have been more input for you! You are right that the pension reduction does not go far enough that there are still too many privileges in all possible areas. Like the FPÖ, we also believe that NEOS is not going far enough and that there is still a lot to do here. However, we cannot agree to your request because you have used the pension funds in your own looser way. And that's not right. Many people receive payments from pension funds that are not privileged. If one works in the construction industry, in the paper industry or in the IT industry, then one has not been able to pay, had lower collective contract increases because part of the Gage flows instead into a pension fund. This cannot be referred to as a luxury pension, namely workers in these industries. This would have to be more differentiated so that you can agree to your request. Where the Privilegienstadel continues to flourish is with the city of Vienna; the money is thrown out of the window with both hands and made clientele policy. The Court of Auditors says that € 130 million will be powdered to a few guests for luxury pensions. Mr Minister, you say that, when you were negotiating for the trade union in Vienna, you introduced solidarity contributions. I think that if these Solidar contributions were worse for employees than what would have happened to other pension limits, you would have long since gone down to the general pension scheme. But this is not the case, but there are still privileges here. Perhaps they were worse than they are today, but that is why what we are experiencing today is far from justified. On the way to a common pension right for all Austrians, we are moving forward in small triple steps, and this is an advantage for all those who need to finance the privileges of a small group.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e13007	Mr Ing. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party to - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e13028	When it comes to pensions, you always have to ask the question of justice. If pensions are paid out by the general public – and the general public pays between €8 billion and €10 billion each year to maintain these pensions at all – and then individuals register these pensions, of course, the question arises whether this is fair and fair. There are set-aside arrangements, and those who lie before that date are treated more unevenly than those who came after that date. And politicians are a good example for that. There was this arrangement with 1997: All those who have previously acquired a claim have still benefited from these political pensions, which are at least 1 300 people – 1 300 old politicians who still benefit from this benefit, and also their relatives, because this can be inherited. There is a question of whether this is fair. And the answer is simple: no! It is not fair if a person has been a minister for four years and regardless of what he has done before, regardless of how much he has paid before, he receives 80 percent of the last relationship and can also inherit it to his descendants or to his wife. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: They can't inherit it, so it looks like!]] That is to say, the problem is that there is a disparity between treatment and maintenance for individual privileges that are no longer modern. And all those – and there you can put your head in the sand, Mr. Minister – who have a minimum pension, worked their lives, raised children and finally got 837 €, look jealously at those who get over 10,000 € a month. And no man knows why. The only logical answer to this is that those who could judge it have judged it – and all those who could not judge it, pay for it. That's how it works in this country. You can see that in any area. For example, if you look at the Hypo-Research Committee, what's going on in this country, and if you enrich everyone at the expense of the general public, you can get bad. We have exactly the same problem with top pensions, where individuals take tens of thousands each month at the expense of the general public. There are pensions, across the board, from the officials up to the politicians who are up to €10,000 a month, at the OeNB even up to €20 000 a month – in the month, you have to imagine that! That doesn't even get others a year, and that's a cryout injustice. The fun is when a trade unionist comes out and talks about such top pensions being of course not fair, but the union itself pays top pensions, not from its own funds, but from the contributions of its members. Then it'll be critical again. That is to say, the union should, before it comes out and tell us here something about restriction of peak pensions, once in its own garden and even see that it cleans up in itself, where the privileges are at home. Or if you look at the ÖBB: On average, ÖBBlers still retire at 53 years of age. Now tell me why! Why do they go into retirement at 53 years of age, and why, according to the Court of Auditors, could we save up to € 1 billion if we were just looking at it a little? – But you don’t want to, because these are all voters! These are all the voters of the SPÖ, and to voters of the SPÖ no one trusts in them. That's the problem. The top officials and top-level pensioners are all your members, your officials, who are still sitting in there and who, of course, do not want to hurt. Let's see how this came about at the time: In 1997, the introduction was delayed by one month in order to allow Mr Molterer to claim a claim. If one had decided at the time as one originally wanted, Mr Molterer would not have received a top pension. So that he can also fall in, one has shifted the day of the year by a month. That's exactly the problem we've got here. Some few benefit from this system, and the public pays. All those who get the minimum pension of €837, who do not even know how to pay the bills, because the rents are increasing more and the adjustment does not catch the rents that energy costs can no longer afford and the food – prices do not rise by 1 percent, but by more than 10 percent, and that is precisely what applies to the members of minimum pensions – look at the 1,300 politicians who still, unjustly, still refer to a luxury pension. And no one does anything about it. These adjustments that you have made, Minister, are maculature. There you can't even look straight into the eye of the relative of a minimum pension. Therefore: Get up, make sure you're justice! I think this is to be expected from a socialist party.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e13071	Mr Heinzl spoke in favour of an actual correction. You are aware of the narrow provisions of the Rules of Procedure. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e13095	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Lugar has apparently made a claim against better knowledge – as always with his speeches – that the employees of the Austrian Federal Railways retire at the age of 53. I'll put it right: It is not true what Mr Lugar has said, because the age-related average retirement of the ÖBB staff is just as much as the ASVG staff are nearly 60 years old. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lugar.]] Mr. Lugar, open your master book, write it in, learn it externally – and do not always discriminate against the railways!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e13131	I call Mr Hell. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e13153	Mr President. Federal Minister! My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to comment briefly on Agenda items 15 and 16. But the claims made here simply do not vote, especially as regards the ÖBB. Mr Anton Heinzl has already put it right: There has been a pension scheme for all newly introduced ÖBB staff since 1996 with which they are insured in the ASVG. Secondly, we know from current figures – which are easy to question at the ÖBB – that the retirement age of ÖBB employees is currently about where the ASVG pension age lies. Ladies and gentlemen, on the agenda items 15 and 16: A transparent pension monitoring will be carried out at item 15 required for all employees in the public service. Apart from the fact that the responsibility lies not with BMASK, but within the scope of the Federal Chancellery and the Constitutional Committee, Ms. State Secretary Steßl already published the first report in March 2015 on “Monitoring of the Staff Pensions in the Federal Service”. This report is based on the pension comments of the Federal Officials, including the distributed areas, and was first published in this form and depth. Some key data from this report, some of which have already been addressed: The number of new retirements – in 2014 it was 1,889 – has fallen massively in the Federal Service. There is a minus of 53 percent here. The retirement age has increased by 10 weeks to 60 years and 11 months with Federal officials in 2014 compared with 2013 and is now with that of the private sector. The objective of approximation to the statutory retirement age has not yet been achieved – this is also set out in this report. It has already been noted that this monitoring should now also be anchored by law, the discussions are already taking place. On agenda item 16, the applicant calls for the introduction of a ‘real partial pension’. However, the requested partial pension scheme following this request would be equivalent to the abolition of the current provisions on early retirement pensions, thus contrary to the declared objective of the Federal Government – and this is also our common goal, I believe – to increase the actual retirement age. We do not like that and do not agree with us. Rather, our group supports the decision of the Council of Ministers on the possibility of partial retirement. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen, the prerequisite for all these measures, whose aim is to keep people in employment longer, is the willingness of the economy to offer jobs for the elderly. Our group welcomes the government's decision on the partial pension model and also the efforts to anchor pension monitoring by law. We also welcome – and I can conclude by saying this – that €250 million annually in 2016/2017 will be spent on promoting older unemployed people who are looking for jobs for more than six months. I believe that this is an important contribution to better control of the labour market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e13204	Mr Hundstorfer spoke on a point of view. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e13225	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Ing. Lugar, don't be angry, but a few of the statements you made here, you can only make with your immunity. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lugar.]] - It's not stupid. That's it. Only the claim you made about the ÖGB is as damaging as anything. I have, of course, dissolved the supplementary pension scheme, very well-respected ing. Lugar. Ask yourself before you say falsehoods here! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Today, I still have processes by former employees of the ÖGB who complain to me to determine if the constitutionally correct what we have done was correct. – Only so that you know in which – fortunately – the rule of law we live! - That's one point. Point two: They put themselves here and think: So, dear government, the rule of law – what is that?, we don't need to, away with it, immediately all the political pensions down to the ASVG level! That's what you're asking for here. – Do you think that this is quite reasonable with a rule of law? Do you really believe that? – No, it’s not about fairness, it’s about the rule of law, about the rule of law. [[Abg. Lugar: It's about fairness, Minister!]] You're the next one to come and say, The ASVG maximum pension is too high, because we still have minimum pensioners, down with it! That's what you want. They want to put a state structure in total swing. I don't want that. By the way, it's no wonder you have so few voices, that's clear. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. And less!]] What did we do? . I have allowed myself to take part in the very high luxury pensions, which is permitted under Austrian and European law. Less than 17 percent within a month – this has not previously trusted any government, we do! We went in with 17 percent minus within a month. That is what the rule of law is possible under European law, or we believe that it probably holds. The pattern processes are only in the pipeline. We'll see when they're coming. Next point: If you stand here and say, old politicians, old politicians!, you also say, among other things, that they paid 23 percent of the pension at the time! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lugar.]] You never say that. They come with some populism. Of course, there are minimum pensioners in every country in the world, it is perfectly clear, perfectly logical; and of course you come with populism and say that one has around €2,000 more, that is not fair. – That can’t be a policy! The question is: How do we continue to shape the future? We have been on our way to a completely uniform pension system in Austria for over ten years. All those who started working ten years ago are on their way to a single pension system. There are in the transitional right which are there faster, and which are slower there. But there are no longer any public servants who go into retirement without having to make the pension insurance contribution. There is no “old-public-pensionist” who does not have to make a pension contribution. There is also no old politician who does not have to make a pension contribution. All of this has been made by means of the transitional regime. Now, of course, you can say there or there, the pension contributions are too low a trace. Even since, at the very high pensions, we have now taken a lot of action, we have put up once again, we have made something to do with it again. It's not like we're looking away, but we've got things moving and developing very well. I'd have a request: Even if you are a small party, please use real numbers! We don't have a €41 billion in state aid to the pension system – we don't have that, we don't! I suspect that in the 41 billion € you represent here, the service providers and service providers are involved, but we don't have that. - So much for it. Then I can also tell you because you always criticize: In connection with the UG 22 – that is the UG, where what the grant is, namely for the ASVG, for the GSVG and for the farmers, is charged – last year we had € 198 million less expenditure than originally planned, because of course some measures already take. If you stand here and talk about a 25 percent pension minus, I have to say: That's what we introduced at the corridor board. A corridor pensioner has 25 percent less pension than if he would retire with 65. If you really want to say that's nothing, then it's no wonder that your part of the vote is constantly shrinking.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e13301	I call Mr Wurm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e13323	Mr President. Minister! Values listeners and listeners! Two rates of pension, to the luxury pension: Mr. Minister, it is clear to me that you are very difficult to explain. People outside have already understood why SPÖ and ÖVP have set up the luxury pensions for the next few decades. [[Interference of Federal Minister Hundstorfer.]] Of course, I have to give my colleagues Lugar right. Only, Minister, as far as ÖVP and SPÖ are concerned, is it clear to people why this has happened. In my opinion, the great fall of sin – and no one can explain that, you can probably never explain it to your own conscience – is that the Greens have played up for this government in turn. I would like to join a green table and I would like to listen to how you explain this with the luxury pensions. Whatever you can't explain, Minister, you know that yourself, this is the discussion of this morning, why a minimum pensioner or a minimum pensioner of only €837 or €840 should live if he's always worked for 30, 35, 40 years, and then a minimum pensioner has the same. People outside don't understand that. That's why there's such an unrest outside, Mr. Minister. But the pension theme is still going to follow us for some time. Let's get back to the price. They have announced the largest tax reform in the Second Republic. What was your intention? – They actually wanted to achieve two things: that the people outside breathes up almost, finally remains more net of gross, and they finally wanted to reach an impetus for the economy – now the consumption comes, growth impulse. What's left? The population outside has understood very well: Left pocket, right pocket, I'm not left anymore, people are well off. [[Abg. Kuzdas: Complete nonsense!]] You'll hear that everywhere if you ever talk to the ordinary population, what you don't do anymore. If you would talk to the entrepreneurs about what you obviously don't do anymore, then you would soon learn that the economy has the feeling that it pays this €5 billion. Ask a few entrepreneurs! That's quite clear, the economy pays for the 5-billion-€ package, quite clearly. What didn't happen, and what would have been the idea, please? – The idea would have been to reduce bureaucracy, to end the state of reform, to end this senseless, unproductive money destruction. You didn't do that. On the topic of inflation: I asked Minister Hundstorfer how tax reform affects consumers. The answer can be read: It has not been investigated, he believes that this would have no effect, quite the contrary. It is clear that this tax reform will of course have an impact and that the price, which has been felt, felt, noticeable, effective inflation, continues naturally. We have rents that increase, we do not have a fee stop with the municipalities, the country, elsewhere. That means everything gets more expensive, food becomes more expensive. A friend just wrote me something I would like to give as an example. He's got a company car. Now the new tax reform is happening to him: He gets, I think, net €70 more a month, for which now his service car is taxed differently on the addition amount. That means he loses this €60 or €70 he wins there. And the people outside are not stupid, they understand very well. How such things can happen is incomprehensible to me. You know the example with the addition amount, so you know that very well. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Tamandl]] [[Reciprocity of the speaker]] [[Abg. Moser: The speaking time is over!]] Summary: This tax reform, which you are constantly talking about, which is intended to produce an impulse, will do nothing at all. The price is going on, everything is getting more expensive. The people outside will present the invoice to you during the next elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e13394	The next speaker is Mr Deputie Schmijsschlager. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e13415	Mr President. Federal Minister! Appreciate High House! It's exciting. On the one hand, we are making politics only for our constituent groups, on the other hand, we are not supposed to talk to them anymore. So your perception already has a very wide spectrum. But, Mr Lugar, if you blame us for making policy only for our constituent groups, that is, I think, absolutely justified by the Stronach team. You can't make this accusation after the last elections. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] The so-called luxury pensions are a subject that we need to discuss a little wider. We are here as Members of Parliament in favour of the Constitution and have made a law, namely several parties in common. With this law, we have done everything we can to limit these pensions under the Constitution. However, we also need to see that there are acquired rights that must also be protected, and these persons too deserve our protection, and we must say that quite honestly. There are also top functions in the field of state and state, which have to be paid high enough to maintain top executives and ultimately to keep them in social security systems, as is the case in the private sector. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] [[Abg. Moser: National Bank!]] I must honestly tell you that it is really absolute populism to find out any marginal groups each time, shoot at them and then argue with envy. The argument, who pays the same thing, should get the same thing out, is absolutely right, but then one must also apply: that those who pay more will also get more out. Especially the FPÖ, who with their disaster around the hypo every taxpayer and also – you don’t need to laugh there, that’s not to laugh! [[Intervening calls and cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] Every day, in the Hypo-Research Committee, we will be provided with the evidence of what the blue disaster has done. If you stand out and speak for minimum pensioners, I have to say: They pay for the disaster that you and Jörg Haider have done in Carinthia. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] However, I would also like to say on the subject of partial pensions that it is a very important step to set up corridor pensions, because we clearly see the development that today, with training and retirement periods due to demographic development, we can make very, very much living time, but we already have a small negative development in working time. That means we won't be able to serve the pensions forever. We also need to leave older people in the working world, to develop further in the work process. And if this possibility exists to demand performance, to assume responsibility, then you must also offer these opportunities legally. I think it would also be a very important step, and there are also measures on the part of the economy to offer jobs that are suitable for old age, because this is also important. We have to keep this in mind again and again. I believe that we are in the right direction with flexibility in the labour market, because we can talk about all the details of social benefits in this state, but if there is no one who provides the benefits and pays into the social system, we will not be able to achieve all of this. For this, we thank all the employees in this Republic. We should really discuss these issues with responsibility and care.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e13480	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e13529	I have to say something when the ÖVP comes out here and you're not too stupid to bring an argument that They are very likely to make policy for their own groups. When I talk about the fact that, for example, a Molterer is still in this pension model, the officials and, above all, those who are top earners are their own constituency and then the argument is brought: These are our voters, which is why we are so successful, so of course we have to make a policy for them, then I wonder what you have to do here in the House, because normally you should do in the House as a parliamentarian policy for all. It's about fairness. It is about the minimum pensioner, if he looks at those who have not deserved all this and take 10 000 € out of the system a month, not getting bad and these people feel that we as Members represent their interests. If you then, Mr Minister, pretend so nonchalantly: Mr. Lugar, you did not say that those who were four years ministers paid 23 percent pension or social security contributions! This is an insanity, you must say, Mr. Lugar!, then pick up your calculator and calculate: 23 percent for four years. And then you enter: 80 percent 15-20 years. Because 80 percent of the final pension is paid as pension for those who have paid this 23 percent for four years. Now you can probably also understand with a calculator that this doesn't work out, because a cross-subsidisation has to be done. You know who's cross-subsidising? I'll tell you a secret: These are those taxpayers who do not know in the back and front how they are supposed to pay their rent, how to pay their phone bill, their electricity bill. [[Interference of Federal Minister Hundstorfer]] Those subsidize all those across that protect you here, and that's exactly what it's all about: They protect the clientele. If you blame me, I have mistreated the poor union here, I can only allow myself to do so in the context of my immunity: They have admitted for themselves that there have been privileges and still exists at the trade union. [[Federal Minister Hundstorfer: Wrong, there is no!]] You've done a lot of things, I recognize. But I mean, where's the excuse, Minister? Apologize to the ÖGB members that you and your predecessors have approved privileges over many years and have eventually re-directed the contributions to those artists who face you! [[Federal Minister Hundstorfer: 1.6 million members!]] That's exactly what it's all about. It's about fairness, because individuals get out of the system more than you do. I'm not talking about saying 5 000 € in pension is too much. [[Abg. Moser: Thank you!]] If a person has earned the €5,000 by paying himself accordingly into the system, it is said to be so. [[Abg. Moser: We've heard that before! Please sit down!]] But we're talking about all those who haven't even paid a fraction of what they're getting out of. But you don't want to talk about them, because these are your friends – from you of the SPÖ and above all from you of the ÖVP. These are your friends, these are those who are really powerful in this country, these are the top pensioners, and of course they don't want to lose. That's why you make them the wall and betray all those who register the minimum pension – and that's disgraceful!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e13643	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does one of the rapporteur want a final word? – That's not the case. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 13: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 644 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 14: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 645 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 15: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 646 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. I accept Amendment 919/A(E) to the Constitutional Committee. Finally, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 16: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its 647 report of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. [[14:37:48]] 17. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors’ report Series Bund 2013/6 (III-19/648 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e13741	We reach the 17th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Mayer has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e13768	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors. Ladies and gentlemen! We are today discussing the report of the Court of Auditors from 2013, which deals with three sub-areas: firstly: Transparency of corporate tax advantages with a focus on group taxation; second: Staff and police assignment; and thirdly: Students with migration background, school system answers. All three topics are very extensive and interesting, so you can discuss them in detail. . I only envy Mr Lugar for one thing, for his speaking time. He always has unlimited speaking time here, even if it's things we've heard 20 times. I would now like to talk about the subject of students with migration backgrounds, answers from the school system, and about the other sub-areas my colleagues will later make their speech. I would like to express my express thanks to the Court of Auditors for all the reports, but especially for them, because he, I am still coming back to them, not only critically analysed and questioned the figures here, but also the relations, who pays, who creates, we know this old game. At the same time, and I would like to stress this particularly, it is also about a particular educational background. I would add that because this seems very important to me, because there are two things that need to be illuminated here: What makes sense? What makes no sense? And often it goes beyond the house's mind in the area. I can only quote a short paragraph from the summary of the Court of Auditors' report, with the permission of the President: ‘These support measures’ – which are language support for migration backgrounds – ‘are based on generally held target formulations, but not on meaningful benchmarks for target review. There was only one support measure for evaluation results. In part, the BMUKK could only quantify expenditure on support measures by estimates. In addition, the BMUKK’s fragmented competence in the field of compulsory education in general made it difficult to coordinate the funding measures, leading to different data acquisitions and documentation at country level, which reduced transparency.” I claim that this prevents transparency. What is summarized here in two, three important sentences is reflected. I am only saying this because the discussion will open up again who should have the competence. The question is whether we should really split it into nine countries or finally get to the point that the one who pays can buy it accordingly. That will be the central question! And that is also why this Court of Auditors report clearly talks about the subject matter, including the home mind. Because each of us went to school once, and every second of them means that he is also an expert at the same time. And there are still people who say: If I could put children with little German skills into a class or put them together and then learn each other, this would increase success. Ladies and gentlemen, this is also highlighted, therefore there is also the demand for target formulations – the very opposite is the case! For years I have taught German intensively at a school and have also been trained for it. If I wanted to promote children who were not able to German at all, I took in good students from the parent class, let them talk to each other, and gave them tasks, since students of students now have proved to be the best way to learn. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Moser: And learn much, much faster!]] “Vorarlberg today”, the federal mission, has once set itself a task and has attended another school every week, in which one has restricted all day care, and there asked teachers and teachers: What is the greatest advantage you have ever seen during your full day care? Spontan was the answer for all – as ordered – in every broadcast that students with bad German skills made the greatest progress. So if we really want to do the best in pre-school and primary education, then we have to see that we actually bring together a fully day-to-day schooling in which we can actually make it possible for children to learn from children with optimal learning requirements and correspondingly improved teacher training. And they can only do that in another, in a modern school form. There's no longer any school tests, there's no need for new insights either. At last you have to be ready to implement the well-known things. And it would be worth fighting for. I would also like to thank you for the recommendations I can all draw attention to as an educational politician. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e13817	I call Mr Gahr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e13838	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The Court of Auditors examined group taxation – Mr Mayer said so – which was introduced in 2005. This group taxation system makes it possible to balance profits and losses between parent and subsidiary companies in order to minimise the tax burden. The aim of the study was to determine the extent to which this system brings something to the country and to what extent the system, which is relatively young, works in practice. The Court of Auditors estimated the loss of revenue for 2010 at around €455 million in total, but compared to that, it is economic experts who consider this group tax to be indispensable. A total of 27 recommendations have been made. I should like to address some of the main criticisms here. The tax benefits mentioned in the Funding Reports and the Transparency Database Act were not equal to coverage. To sum up, the Court of Auditors compared 110 legislative measures to the fact that there were only six groups of summaries in the report, details were not provided. There was no comprehensive and systematic approach, which was concrete. defined objectives and quantifiable criteria for beneficiaries. The Court of Auditors has critically noted that preferential measures were held almost exclusively in time. In international comparison, group taxation in Austria is relatively broad. Here are some recommendations from the Court of Auditors: Annual assessment of the impact of the benefits on the basis of a uniform and consistent classification based on the actual facts; setting quantitative and qualitative targets, as well as a clear definition of the objectives; regular and comprehensive evaluation of whether the maintenance of the benefits was necessary to achieve the objective. Overall, the President of the Court of Auditors has praised Moser this system and the implementation – it was still State Secretary Danninger in the Committee – but there are some things that still need to be urgently addressed, such as the long-term need assessment, the increase in personnel resources and the establishment of risk management. At present, of the 27 recommendations nine have been implemented, twelve are in implementation, and in the future, for example, there will be a guide that sets out a uniform approach. With six recommendations from the Court of Auditors, the Federal Ministry of Finance did not see itself as a need for implementation. It was rejected that the automation of the UID number should not be done in case of death and bankruptcy. This group taxation, despite some criticism from the Court of Auditors, is, in my view, an important and sensible location policy measure. International corporations have incentives to settle their headquarters in Austria and thus ensure high-quality jobs in our country. Overall, it is also important in the fast-paced time of the economy that we support Austrian companies that expand abroad in tax matters. Professor Claus Staringer, tax lawyer at the Economic Union of Vienna, warned against disposing of group taxation. It is an economic and local policy measure. But he also pointed out clearly that the criticisms of the Austrian Court of Auditors must be implemented in all cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e13908	Mr Walter Rosenkranz. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e13933	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! High house! Mr Mayer has started with the question of what the Court of Auditors has examined in the field of education and what information it has come to know. And he also partially drew his conclusions from it. At the beginning, he mentioned the speaking time of Mr Lugar, whom he would like to have, but he always hears the same. Mr Mayer! The same thing to hear – you can also keep the mirror there, because I have never heard anything else from you for years. And the whole thing in a way that you say, what the belly doesn't want, obviously doesn't allow the head. It was said: The only solution for improving language skills is all day school with limited education, as everyone says, then it will be better. In the mission “In the Center” before the last National Council election, there was a teacher; Mr Walser and the later Minister of Education Heinisch-Hosek were also sitting there. This teacher from favorites has reported that she has a class with 100 percent children with migration background and lack of German knowledge. And she has done it without having had better children in there who would have supported them in teaching something that these children have learned the German language very quickly and also well. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walser.]] That is, there is never a single blessed, good thing, but it is obviously also related to whether there are good teachers who are dealing with the individual situation in the class. Not only can they be called: There must be all day school with limited lessons! [[Abg. Mayer: The house mind is not enough!]] Mr Mayer, you were already speaking, a second speech is provided for in the Rules of Procedure. I can log you in immediately afterwards, but maybe it will make your own folder, or you will do it yourself. It works here in the house! There are a total of 25 recommendations from the Court of Auditors, three addressed to the Vienna City School Council. I believe that the political leadership in the Vienna City School Council is undisputed with social democracy. And in the trial period and before that, it is probably also the social democracy which the ministers of education have put. I take just a few comments “to optimize the existing system”: ‘It would build a reporting system.’ Or: ‘The BMUKK should provide an overview of its implementation’. ‘Learning progress documentation should be provided in the student stem to provide a continuous documentation’. The targets with quantifiable characteristics would have to be evaluated. Or: "In future, evaluations of language promotion courses would also include the quality of the measures and/or measures. take into account the extent of the achievement of the objective.’; That is to say, one has the problem that in Austria there are children with a lack of German skills, whether there are children with migration backgrounds or also Austrian children who speak badly German. There you have to take money and make great 15a agreements with the countries – we also criticise the division of competence here. And then what happens? Nothing more! That means it's not even seen if this money is worth anything. Mr Mayer says we need all day schools with restricted education now so that the weaker students learn from the better students. In my opinion, it is very good if children also exchange and understand each other, but really teach it to them already. Or: ‘Objectives with quantifiable characteristics for maternal education would be defined and the achievement of the objective would have to be evaluated.’ That means, in reality, there's nothing that happens there except that money goes into there, and then it's somehow solved somewhere else. But we also give colleagues Mayer opportunities. He said that when the children are together all day, they learn so excellent German. We want to take time every minute so that the children speak German to each other and learn the weak from the better. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] That is the request: German as a recess language. If you look so good all day, it will probably be the first step that you speak German during the break. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would like to make another request: [[Quoted print version removed]] This is why, because the Secretary of State for Integration – at the time – meant briefly, it is necessary that children should only be allowed to go to elementary school if they can have enough German. This can be read in the “Oberösterreichische Nachrichten. ” But also the current State Secretary Mahrer, who coordinates education in the coalition, said: “I’m telling teachers that German is important before entering school because the children can’t follow the lessons accordingly. We need to create a system to check the language level." In other words, we want to implement what Mr Mahrer's State Secretary, who is negotiating with you about education, and of course we expect the approval of the ÖVP.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e14013	The motions for resolutions are sufficiently supported, properly put in place and are therefore under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e14130	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e14161	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Ladies and gentlemen! Responsible handling of taxpayers – I think that should be our heart. This is, above all, an outstanding and essential task for us Greens, and I therefore, for example, repeatedly try to put a finger on it within the Committee on the Court of Auditors, where effective use of means of taxation is urgently needed, because inefficiency prevails. And there's a wide field. Mr President, I am always grateful to you for bringing us many examples. The current report we are discussing extends from corporate tax and group taxation to the problem of students with migration background and their promotion of German knowledge. This is a wide field, which is why we usually have very, very many topics in these debates. I'm trying to strain the bow. All these topics have a common denominator, and that is the question of how tax money is used or abolished. When collecting, we are at the problem group corporate tax/group tax. Mr President, I really – it is incredible, at the time in June 2014 – have let your wording on this issue break down on the tongue. The problem is that companies that have foreign branches or subsidiaries abroad can claim the revenue to be taxed at any time either there or with us, so to speak, to have a kind of tax mill game – taxed there or there. And most of the time, it's taxed where it costs less. That is to say, you say really funny: “The Austrian group taxation was very far-reaching.” I have now asked myself what “designed far - open” means: There is a great deal of potential for optimizing tax savings for businesses and, on the other hand, very little scope for tax collection of the Republic. It is said in the Court of Auditors' report that we have an administrative burden of €7 million alone to manage this complicated and corporate-friendly group taxation at all. And then what do we take? Half a billion! And what does the Court of Auditors report say? They call it “an increased tax risk, ” which is also a formulation that is great. There is an “excessive tax risk” in group taxation, because it is relatively easy to deal with tax fraud. You just need to recover the losses and push the profits out. And then it says that the charges amounted to €3.1 billion in losses – it is clear that I am not paying a tax – and that €0.5 billion was claimed in profits. Not only does the Court of Auditors report show that the ‘wonderful’ system of the so-called ‘high tax risk’ needs massive reform, this is also a priority for negotiation in the case of essential tax matters. I am grateful to my colleague Bruno Rossmann for putting his finger in this wound. I have referred to the bow with revenue and expenditure and the distribution of competence. The problem of distribution of competence has already been addressed in the field of education. Mr Mayer was very kind, Mr Rosenkranz has also said that money is inefficient, because one takes it, and the other doesn't care how to take it, because he gets it and spends something, and we don't know the effect. The effect is not clear in the field of education. I am now taking another area of food controls. This is a very close-to-life area, since everyone wants healthy food, with which they do not attract food poisoning, and every Austrian and every Austrian trusts in it – and you, ladies and gentlemen, today at lunch – that quality comes to the table and that it is especially not harmful to health. The Court of Auditors has made the effort to compare the controls in Vorarlberg and Salzburg. I read this again yesterday, it's really amazing: Almost 50 percent of the working time of the inspectors, who should be on site, should draw samples that should carry out the revision plans, goes on it for the administration. The Court of Auditors has found that particularly the highly specialized auditors, who are particularly active in high-risk businesses, are really concerned that it is always checked that the quality fits and that there is no health hazard that often affects administrative activities. Then comes the question of how many samples are drawn. There are sample plans, and we are at least so far that we meet up to 70 or 80 percent of the plans – this is an increase rate. The Court of Auditors notes, however, that this increase is possible because we are taking fewer samples, saying that the latte has been lowered to make it look better. And then there is a wonderful federal group that says we need reforms. This group also worked out a whole catalogue of reforms, and then you read the Court of Auditors report – you only have to look up – on page 124: “Steps to implement the workgroup’s proposals have not yet taken place.” There I am in the face of a fundamental problem that concerns us every time in the Court of Auditors Committee. Reforms are urgently needed. We need to make more effective use of the resources that we can use in tax terms. And what happens? - Nothing! [[Abg. Jarolim: Who says that?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Federalism!]] This is the frustration that is then made clear to us again and again about the electoral behaviour of the individual voters. We say that we want to take a step to finally break out of this cycle of non-negotiation. I know that the opposition is not the majority, but I keep in mind where it would be necessary everywhere that we finally have a responsible way of dealing with taxpayers in revenue and expenditure. The number of examples is miserable, and the Court of Auditors is showing it over and over again. My colleague Walser will show you even more dramatically in the field of education where this division of competence has led to Austria.– Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e14226	I am now interrupting the negotiations on item 17 of the agenda. [[15:01:10]] Short debate on Question Time 4144/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e14248	We shall proceed to the implementation of the brief debate on Question Time 4144/AB. As the above-mentioned answer has already been distributed, a reading by the writer is not necessary. We are going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with the first speaker having a speaking time of 10 minutes for reasons. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Brunner. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e14285	Mr. Energy Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Dear Seers! We are now discussing my question regarding the removal and dismantling of the Energy Efficiency Act and the response of the Minister. [[President Bures takes over the presidency again.]] Before I start, I want to tell you something that happened to me recently. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am curious whether you are just as surprised as I am. We know that public transport is not particularly well developed in Austria, especially in the rural regions. Therefore, greens also have to drive by car from time to time. [[Oh, call at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] I've done this, I just had to refuel, and I got an invoice there. [[The speaker holds a fuel bill.]] On this account I read that the diesel fuel is an additive in accordance with the Energy Efficiency Act. This has surprised me because we here in the House have negotiated the Energy Efficiency Act very intensively and have also decided, and the Act does not contain additives and the addition of diesel fuels. I already have a request to do so. It has been put forward – because the implementation of the Energy Efficiency Act has been delayed – whether there have already been sectoral agreements here with different sectors regarding the recognition of measures. In your reply to point 8 of my inquiry, write: ‘No industry agreements have been concluded so far.’ Now I am surprised, and, Minister, I am asking you to explain here today, with what permission and on what basis a gas station operator prints the sentence on my invoice and on the many other customers: Diesel fuel is additive in accordance with the Energy Efficiency Act. So I notice that here you seem to sacrifice energy savings to the profit of the mineral oil industry and make the Energy Saving Act a mineral oil promotion law. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I want to do this more precisely now. We have passed this law a year ago, and the will of the Constitutional Legislator – I would like to stress this – is clear: Energy saving, climate protection and benefits for renewable energy. Part of this energy saving concerns energy suppliers – including gas station operators – who have to show 0.6 percent savings compared to the previous year. How this proof is to be shown, which measures are recognised, is not regulated in the law; that has been delegated to you. There will be a catalogue of measures that you order, and that is what it is about now. We are now experiencing what we have experienced during the negotiations, namely that we are trying to undermine this law and the energy savings that have to be undertaken with it. A few months ago, media reports have been showing about the challenges that gas station operators have been able to add to the diesel cleaning additive instead of real energy savings measures in order to be their energy saving. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: He doesn't know himself!]] The addition of this cleaning additive is already happening. In reply to my question, you write that there are no sectoral agreements at all, but that discussions are taking place at all. We also know that there are these conversations and that in these discussions there is a method of how this saving can be presented. In your reply, you also refer to an opinion from university professor Rose, in which it is assumed – I quote from your reply – that “on the addition of additives” “Efficiency increases of approx. 0.7% p.a. ==References====External links== - Quote. Now I'm talking about this statement. So, first of all, who's Professor Rose? – This is the former head of Shell. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the Greens.]] [[Abg. Walser: Well done!]] [[Abg. Pirklhuber: But this is exciting!]] So much to an independent opinion on the effect of additives on diesel fuel. The basis for this opinion is only manufacturer's information; and this is a theoretical determination of the energy saving value. There is no solid evidence that there are these energy savings, and I also quote from a fact sheet of the trade union of the mineral oil industry, which was found on the side of the Chamber of Commerce. Meanwhile, this fact sheet is off the net, but we've secured it, and there's inside: As a rule, no improvement can be achieved through so-called accessory additives. The method of action of these means is usually neither scientifically nor technologically recognizable. - Quote. So there is no technical and no coherent evidence of the actual savings from these additives. These 0.6 percent can be achieved from year to year. How can you prove this, Mr. Minister? – Do we just tank additives at some point?- Oh, my God! - I don't know. Maybe you can explain it to us; I can't imagine you can explain it. But now I come to the more critical part, to the effects that this measure might have. You write in your reply that you expect efficiency increases of 0.7 percent. The obligation of gas station operators and all energy suppliers is 0,6 percent. That is, if this measure is so recognised, the gas station operators will be over-fulfilled. As a result, the market is flooded with certificates, other committed persons can buy these certificates cheaply, and this law, the energy saving obligation and performance that we want to deliver, is thereby completely removed and sabotaged. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Right! Incredible!]] Instead of implementing energy saving measures that are mandatory, this credit will give you an incentive to sell more diesel fuel and petrol – and that in the year of the crucial climate conference in Paris. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: A trick!]] Obviously, the effect has been around. I quote here the new trade union energy trader of the WKO, Jürgen Roth, who according to an APA-OTS issue recently said: “We achieved a lot in terms of energy trade – especially for gas station operators – in terms of energy efficiency law last year and will consistently continue our course.” I believe he has achieved a lot if this measure is recognised, namely many profits for his industry, but unfortunately also a lot of damage to the environment, to climate protection and also to consumers, because what you are doing here is consumer deception, because consumers are predicted to do something for environmental protection, for climate protection. In fact, additives are mixed which have no effect. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: It's a business!]] They only want to get the gas station operators away cheaply, so to speak, to boost the profits as well. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This is still completely unnecessary because the legislator has provided for regulations in the law precisely for sectors which may be difficult to fulfil their obligations. We have provided for the exchange of measures between different companies. We have provided for the possibility of compensation. So there is absolutely no need here to find sham solutions, to make deceptions, but there are possibilities in the law. Mr Minister, I urge you to pull the lines before this regulation comes into consideration. I cannot imagine that an environmental ministration of this regulation agrees – this is necessary in accordance with the law. Saving So you're so embarrassed. There are also other negotiations on a constitutional law in the field of energy, energy infrastructure. I take this experience with me. So far, I've relied on your handshake quality. If the last law, which we have decided here, is now sabotaged, we will ensure that citizens can see exactly what is the case here in this law. Take this seriously with regard to your credibility and the credibility of the Federal Government, for who else should take you seriously if you make a mineral oil promotion law out of an energy saving law. We are about half a year ahead of the very important climate conference in Paris. Consider what reply Austria gives there when we are asked what we have done. Will our answer be that we have saved energy, or will our answer be that we have increased and promoted fuel and diesel consumption? - That's the question you're standing in front of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e14432	The next item is the report by Mr Katzian. I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of all other speakers is 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e14453	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! It is indeed true that the Energy Efficiency Act in this House has a long history. We decided here just a year ago. We needed two calls; between them was a National Council election. It wasn't clear until the end whether we could do it or not. All the more so, not only the Greens, but actually everyone welcomed the fact that this Energy Efficiency Act has come about. I would also like to say personally for myself that I have not only invested a lot of time at the time, but also a lot of heart's blood in these negotiations. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: What about the Minister?- Oh, my God!]] Therefore, I well understand that after such an intense debate as we had, there are now many who are a little disappointed by the state of implementation and who would have expected more – perhaps more than we have finally put into paper in the law. [[Mr Brunner and Mr Pirklhuber.]] At that time, when we passed this law, I said in my speech that the Energy Efficiency Act is a basis for further steps to be taken, otherwise we will not continue in the energy efficiency as a whole. I also formulated these further steps in that way at the time. On the one hand, it's about raising consciousness. Energy efficiency has been quickly mentioned, it is our largest power plant. I can understand the arguments and statements, but they are difficult to implement, because, of course, there have been many resistances – even then and in retrospect. It takes awareness-building, it needs clear measures by the federal government, it needs the willingness of energy suppliers to make themselves offensive to the issue of energy efficiency services, but it also needs the individual implementation steps provided by the law. From my point of view too, it is quite unsatisfying where we stand today. There was a proper hoppala in connection with ordering the monitoring station. This did not work in the first run, was then removed from the court and, of course, has led to a huge delay. Now we have a monitoring station, the Energy Agency. Since Monday this week the homepage is available for all, is available for all questions relating to law handling. However, it has been almost a year since the decision-making process, and there are still no guidelines for the activity of the monitoring body, and there is no additional method document that could be used by energy suppliers. Whenever there is a vacuum, if there is no clarity as to whether the measures are recognised, or not, if there is uncertainty, then all those high-end economy that somehow explain what is going on and what is not going on. In the course of the last year, there have been some – I say it very fluently – “windwheellindians” who have meant this, and that is all worthy of recognition. In some cases, it has been called “original” energy efficiency measures, which in fact do not save energy, but produce hot air. In this sense, Mr Federal Minister, I believe that we urgently need a quick review of the directive regulation with an extended methodology document. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] This would contribute to the clarity of energy suppliers. This would help to strengthen the effectiveness of the law. Finally, we have jointly committed ourselves to improving, reducing the use of energy, and we need effective measures to do so. I am sure, and I very much hope that the Ministry of Economic Affairs is working feverishly on this and that the Federal Minister is putting some pressure on me. I think that we will also be putting together the decisive last few meters until the effectiveness of this law. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e14502	Mr. Dr. Mitterlehner is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e14523	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! In principle, I do not fully understand the excitement and also the formulation of the question and this short debate, because an energy efficiency law is always a balancing act, in which one has on one hand the need for energy efficiency, but also climate objectives, and on the other hand an economy. The latter, of course, as far as implementation is concerned, must also be so largely spared from bureaucracy, as far as this is compatible with the law. It is precisely this balancing act that we have also put ourselves in the implementation of the concrete law. I would go ahead with this so that the person who does not deal with the issue does not have the impression that it was just about adding additives, so that the implementation of the Energy Efficiency Act could be measured or its failure to comply with it. It is, of course, a much larger issue. This issue concerns the entire economy, concerns all suppliers, and it is difficult to implement how we have seen it in setting up the monitoring centre. We are working on this and also on the corresponding regulation. [[Abg. Brunner: But the additives can flood everything!]] In this context, I should like to make the following point: Especially in times when total energy prices – especially electricity prices – are going down, the industry's understanding that we now have, from my point of view, quite an ambitious law was not at all given. Only in recent months have we received a little more pressure and support, on the one hand, through the whole problem of security of supply – as far as Ukraine and other issues are concerned – and on the other hand, at the last G7 summit, but also at other meetings on which the problem of global warming and climate objectives has been presented in general. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: We know that, Minister, we do not need the G7.]] I can underline the accuracy of our law. For example, last Monday, the London Energy Agency said in a presentation that increasing energy efficiency is the most important measure to achieve the two-degree climate protection goal. That is, we know, it's important, we're also on this, and we're also glad that we've passed this law. As far as implementation is concerned, I agree, and we have discussed this together in preliminary discussions, we have had certain problems such as the notification of the 1 050-Petajoule target. This and others have now been put out of dispute, clarified and the corresponding notification has also been launched in Brussels. - That's the one point. We have also solved the problem of the monitoring site. I would also like to stress what the implementation is about – I am now referring only to this additive problem – a statement from the response you have not quoted. In fact, you have found Professor Rose more or less partial, because he once worked with this or that company, which would make it unusable. I am referring only to the difficulty of implementation in the gas station sector. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brunner.]] We were, of course, already asked in the process of the law's creation, how the implementation should take place. It is insanely difficult to explain to someone that any tire optimization tests – which may result in the best roll-out behaviour – are the measure by which you reach the 0.6 percent. If we say to the industry that we have to do appropriate driver training, how we behave economically on the road, so that we increase efficiency, then those aspects that have just been brought to light by the gas station operators, the automatic filling stations or other operators. That's why we have also tried – and we have also told you that it was not a secret procedure – to find out if you can't take a further route than before with exactly the same input. This has created this topic of additives, additives. This was not a secret procedure, but the Energy Agency and other organisations were already involved in the initial assessment. And now I come to the sentence I mentioned earlier. We are now going to go into review, that was, so to speak, the preliminary draft. And so that there is no secret either: If someone has said this on the bill, then he has made a voluntary advance to complying with the Energy Efficiency Act – I do not know if this is a problem. It is not there “approved by the method document or the regulation”, but it is only there that it has done so according to the procedure and orientation of the Energy Efficiency Act. And now that's what matters to me: Of course, as far as implementation is concerned, it must be “documented through investigations by EU-accredited independent audit bodies”. You didn't mention that in your presentation now. You have described it as if Mr. Professor Rose, an agent of any producer, had delivered something which is, of course, suspicious and nonsense. – No, first of all, this has been different and more objective in the creation and now has to be objectively objective. Therefore, quite honestly: It is not a promotion of the fossil industry in the context, but we have these fuels, and if I add this additive, I will achieve a more efficient use accordingly. That's it and no other secret! And again: This is a facet in the whole structure and not a large part of the Energy Efficiency Act. [[Abg. Brunner: But this is about further additions!]] I therefore reject the accusation of a delayed or otherwise problematic implementation, especially an intentional procedure in this context. The fact that we simply have voting needs, including certain problems of introduction, is what I note. However, we also want to clear them out together with the sectors concerned, for the reason: A law only has a meaning in its implementation if those concerned and everyone else are convinced of the reasonableness of a measure. It is difficult enough to do so in such a law, which, of course, is only bureaucratic in terms of monitoring. In the final effect, I think: If we have done this persuasion and if we also live by the law, the skeptics will be grateful at the latest at the next supply crisis that we have developed input and output in the right relationship. Therefore, I ask to reduce the wording a little and also to see the problems on the other side. We are really trying to implement, as agreed, in the interests of the climate objective – we all support it – and in the interests of the citizens who have to live by this law. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e14611	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Lettenbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e14632	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! High house! Ladies and gentlemen in front of the screens, laptops, iPads or anywhere! [[Vice chancellor Mitterlehner: iPhones!]] I would like to start by expressing a bit of my surprise at the question of this short debate today. There has been a question by Mr Brunner and, of course, in the run-up to this debate, I have read through the reply, a comprehensive and very detailed reply from the Minister. Of course, one can discuss content, that one has different opinions, but does not discuss the content or the scope and quality of the reply. Whether you need to make an extra short debate, I'll leave it there. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Of course!]] Mr Vice-Chancellor took away some arguments from me. I don't want to repeat much here either. Mr Katzian has also stated that we were in very intensive negotiations about this time about a year ago, and after hard negotiations we succeeded in creating a law that has been new for all of us with a two-thirds majority – unfortunately, other parties have refused to participate, partly from the beginning, without actively wanting to intervene in the design process. One essential point – I refer to the point you have raised: Towing – has been the order of the monitoring site that did not work in the first start. It has been challenged, which is both legitimate and acceptable. However, this was not predictable for all parties and has led to no significant delays. However, the Ministry of Economic Affairs, under the leadership of Mr Vice-Chancellor, has reacted decisively. Firstly, there was an examination of the causes of this opposition, and it was then re-examination within a reasonable time. In addition, the Ministry acted as a short-term intermediary and has replaced this monitoring unit in a certain preliminary period, which now has 30. ==References====External links==* Official website It has already been mentioned which tasks the monitoring body has and which tasks the ministry has, from the preparation of the methodology documents and then in the course of the course of this directive, which will be reviewed in the shortest time or in the near future. With this instrument, the monitoring station can work in further succession. To a certain extent, I understand the comments made by Mr Brunner, because, if the subject is fossil fuels, there is a certain degree of natural resistance to the Greens, and not only in this area. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: This is not a defence! The facts must be put to the vote!]] As the Federal Minister has said, we also need acceptable, sustainable and practicable implementation steps so that we can equip the individual sectors affected by this law and thus have a feasibility. I think we already agree that we have not made this law so that we can get to the last step. There are several steps that can be taken to achieve this efficiency objective. We have not made this law either because we want to achieve a maximum of compensation payments. This is not the intention of this law! [[Abg. Brunner: Of course not! But there must be real savings!]] You have to make a law in implementation this way – and the Minister has also said this several times, here in the house, and I am grateful for that – that you give the economy instruments in order to implement a law. I also do not think it is all right that the oil industry, the gas station operators, should now be shot at here. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: What does “shooting ” mean? It's about the climate challenge!]] The question is: What other options do you have to achieve these results? The Minister has already said quite correctly – and I can therefore stop – if you can handle a larger route with the same use of fuels, then this is an efficiency-enhancing measure. You can agree with that now or not. There you can also express the suspicion of a favorable opinion. The Minister has already made it clear that this is not the case. Instead, we need an accredited approach at European level in order to recognise such measures. It is not only in this area that we need practical solutions, which are now being developed, but also in the commonness that we always want. We need instruments and tools for our economy and industry, which are quite willing to implement this law, which will also enable them to implement this law. That's what we're fighting for. We also invite you to do this. If there is perhaps still a need for discussion – very much. The Minister is known for always having an open ear, and his people in the department, in the section as well. We invite you to do this! – Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e14726	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Kassinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e14747	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! High house! The current brief debate on the question answers gives me the opportunity to repeat some basic things that we liberals have already articulated on the occasion of the legislative act in July 2014. It is known that we did not agree to this law, and it is now also entering into that, I believe what we feared. If I interpret the request of the Greens correctly, then they are going too slowly to build up bureaucracy in the form of the monitoring center. . I say that we liberals believe that this build-up of bureaucracy is a point we do not want at all. The entire Energy Efficiency Act is, in our opinion, a model example of the red tape that has always been spoken of... [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: “Construction” you wanted to say!]] No, I deliberately say “reduction”, which is always spoken of, but in fact, the implementation always takes place exactly the opposite of it, namely a bureaucracy building. Apart from that, we are still – and this is also known – of the opinion that in a first step we should make a strategic energy master plan for Austria in a European context before talking about operational implementing laws à la energy efficiency law. [[Vice chancellor Mitterlehner: We do that too!]] This also applies to the Energy Infrastructure Act, which is now under discussion. Why did we reject the law? – Because we cannot begin with the spirit of law as a liberal, especially as a liberal economic operator. This is a law from above that averts self-employment to people and businesses, which works with punishments and, as has been said, brings a lot of bureaucracy. I am not at all referring to the many opinions of the respective institutions, including the Austrian Trade Union Confederation, the Chamber of Labour, the Chamber of Commerce and, of course, the Industrial Union. We do not believe that it is a goal to punish companies for the behaviour of others, i.e. for foreign behaviour, in particular energy suppliers. We believe that the simple billing costs, in the case of energy costs, are very likely to prevail, and that the whole results accordingly. They are, of course, already acting efficiently on the basis of the economic principle, and they are also efficient in terms of energy resource consumption. We also believe that the whole thing goes in the direction of reporting, documenting, self-justification for action. We should focus on acting ourselves rather than constantly reporting, documenting, justifying, filling out forms et cetera. This audit matter is also subsumable under this point. An expert will be sent back to the company, who will then explain to entrepreneurs how they have to manage their business and how they have to be efficient. The criminal system also concerns that. I'm going to the monitoring station very briefly. If you look at the tasks of this monitoring site alone, that's 13 points. I am not reading them in detail now, but I am limited to the opinion of the Chamber of Commerce: “It should not be forgotten that the proposed commitment system and the documentation systems to be introduced () cause enormous administrative effort and considerable costs.” I'll get you together. This has nothing to do with red tape. That's exactly the opposite of it: This is the production of bureaucracy, of additional bureaucracy – and for that we are not liberals.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e14806	Next item is the report by Mr Willi. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e14827	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! I start with a word of recognition. Mr. Vice-Chancellor, you have been very committed to bringing about this Energy Efficiency Act. That deserves praise, but now we are in the troubles of the plane. I'll get to the point: I hate to let myself go, and you certainly don't like to get dizzy either. We do not let both of us get dizzy, and what is on this cashbon, quoted by my colleague Christiane Brunner, is not covered by law. There it says: Diesel fuel is additive in accordance with the Energy Efficiency Act. As a lawyer, you know just as well as I do that this is not possible, and not because the implementing regulation is missing under this law, because the Energy Agency is only in the process of developing the catalogue of measures that will be recognized in terms of energy efficiency. Thus this sentence is not legally covered and therefore hot air. - Point one. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Lettenbichler: The Minister is not responsible for this!]] Point two: I like to be precise. Mr. Vice-Chancellor, I quote from your answer. It says – I quote –: ‘As regards an area in which an energy efficiency method has already been developed, according to the calculations in the opinion of Univ. Prof. Rose () with the tested additives,Lubrizol 9041M’ and,Innospec Powerguard 6520’ () efficiency increases of approx. 0,7 % p.a. to be achieved’. That is, you say, Professor Rose, who used to be at Shell, says that they achieve efficiency increases of about 0.7 percent. And then comes the sentence you quoted: “In further succession can” – can! – ‘other products are also used’. And then they have to be examined within the framework of EU law. But that means you already recognize what Professor Rose said. It's a four-page paper; I read it through. If this is supposed to be the proof that the additives produce something, I say: Don't be planted! Mr Lettenbichler is like me from Tyrol. We have experienced the discussion about the truck classes – Euro 3, Euro 4, Euro 5 – and it has always been said that they are becoming cleaner and more harmful. Then came the Technical University of Graz. And what did she do? – It has the trucks in real-time mode measured at the level above. How does this Euro-3, Euro-4, Euro-5 engine work in real-time? And that's what came out: What's in the admission is a joke. On the paper, the truck is clean under precisely defined conditions – on the other hand, in real-time operation not at all. We then have to correct all of our figures, because we have found that all of this is not in agreement. Mr Minister, if you say now that this diesel is so great and so efficient: Where is the scientific evidence of this? You can't show that! They appeal to Professor Rose, a lobbyist from Shell. We do not accept this because it is diesel that represents 77 percent of total fuel consumption in Austria. 7.5 billion liters of diesel are sold in Austria per year. And if you now allow the additive to become a “sacrifice” with which you can suddenly save energy, then it is an increase in Parliament and your own intelligence – and I trust you that you will immediately turn it off. I expect you to do this immediately, and if you do not, but I do not think so, then we will have the EU Commission verify whether the EU Commission recognises this measure as an energy efficiency measure. Finally, ladies and gentlemen: We are in the year of the climate conference in Paris and on the day before the publication of the environmental encyclical of Pope Francis. I'm telling you what's in there is very dangerous for everyone, because he's been saying exactly what we Greens have been saying for a long time: Climate change is a huge environmental and social problem, a challenge facing the whole world, and if we do not start to become energy efficient, to live resource-saving, then everything does not go out anymore. Mr Vice-Kanzler, I hope that with today's debate on this issue, you will recognize that you are building on hot air, that the whole thing is not in agreement – and that you will therefore immediately and even tomorrow put off this humbug.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e14889	The next speaker was Mr Vice-Chancellor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e14910	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Willi, I do not want to leave this in the room. I can agree that we both do not want to be planted. On the other hand, I cannot agree with the way in which I have to double myself now that I would be accused if a company had a reference to an account which may not be covered by law. This is not supported by my process or by anything else and therefore not to blame me. I also do not know whether this can be sanctioned somewhere in the form, because it does not mean that one is based on a regulation or a method document or similar. What you obviously didn't want to hear: I have already told you that we are only going into the review and only then, after the review, will we determine whether this is an appropriate measure or not. I don't know how you get to this conclusion. [[Abg. Brunner: You can assume that this does not increase energy efficiency!]] It's about the one picture that's on it. I would therefore like to point out to you that this is on the agenda – Mr Willi has just said it – that is why I say to you: [[Abg. Brunner: I asked you!]] I am not responsible for this, but for the company, and the procedure may not be legally covered, but the procedure may not be threatened with sanctions either! [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Eh clear!]] Did this happen once? [[Abg. Brunner: But no guarantee for!]] - Good! That is why this has little to do with me and an answer to a question. The other thing is: I cannot give you any guarantee that this will be rejected or, on the other hand, will not be approved in the form. That would be unreasonable! I do not do the examination, nor do I go to the review, but there is now an objective process. That is why all that is under the authority of Professor Rose is once again an opinion, which must then, in some way or other, be legally and scientifically objectively objective. That's it, and that's why I'd take the whole drama out of it. I cannot do anything in this context now, nor can I confirm anything. I hope that not a third party will tell me the same thing again, because one has nothing to do with the other. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: deception of consumers is given!]] - Please? [[Abg. Pirklhuber: A consumer deception is given!]] [[Call the ÖVP: Not at all!]] Look, someone may be led astray, but without consequences. From my point of view, that's why you won't buy petrol or diesel! But with regard to the other question: Regardless of whether this works, I have not prompted the entrepreneur to do so, nor have I given him an approval or any other relevant reference, so please: Don't throw it in front of me either! That is the only background to this answer, which was not sufficient for you. In addition, because I'm already there: In my opinion, this is not about bureaucracy or bureaucracy. We want as little bureaucracy as possible, but there is an EU directive that already has a certain background: I would like to deal with my existing resources as efficiently as possible. The advantage I have in climate issues is enormous. For this reason, I believe that, in this case, one can also accept the essentials associated with bureaucracy, because the benefits outweigh to a large extent. But we also want to keep the bureaucracy in a minimum frame. Therefore: Whether this fits into or not the principle philosophy of the FPÖ, is left to you. With you little fits into philosophy – everything is free, but everything covered. [[Abg. Kassinger: Difference!]] – Yes, I happen to have the member statement there? [[Abg. Kassinger: I don't know what that is!]] That's something else. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e15056	Next item is the report by Mrs Dr. Nachbaur. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e15078	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! Dear taxpayers and highly esteemed electricity customers! We voted against the Energy Efficiency Act last year, because we felt it was unnecessary, and we are still doing so today. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Pirklhuber and Mr Brunner.]] In fact, the law makes all energy suppliers responsible for the annual consumption of 0.6 percent less energy by 2020 – otherwise, suppliers will have to pay for punishment. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Future Technologies!]] The Wifo has already estimated that up to €450 million could be punished in this respect last year. And who, do you think, ladies and gentlemen, will really pay this? – Of course you, the electricity customers, the taxpayers will have to swallow the crot once again. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: have to save!]] Austria was once again overly ambitious when it came to meeting the requirements from Brussels. For example, Germany simply reported to the EU what savings could be made with the existing measures, and Austria could have done so too – the climate targets would have been easy to achieve without energy efficiency legislation – but Austria wanted to be model students once again. Only when it comes to financial policy – interestingly – does our Federal Chancellor ride out far and support the Tsipras party, the only head of government, in contrast to the negotiating position of the Troika, but when it comes to debt, the SPÖ is always involved. [[Abg. Heinzl: Very good that!]] Back to Energy Efficiency Act: I too am for energy saving and for a clean environment, but this is also different. I now allow myself to take a small example of the calculation. Let's take a look at the electrical energy: In industry, for example, more than two thirds of electrical energy is spent on the production of mechanical energy. There could well be a tenth of the total electrical energy needs of the industry – simply through more efficient engines, improved processes, variable speed drives. This has been known for more than 15 years and is already being implemented continuously in replacement investments as well as in new plant construction. 0.6 percent energy savings per year are more than one tenth of total energy savings. This legal saving is already in progress – without any loss of bureaucrats – anyway. One should rely on technical progress rather than swing the bureaucratics. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] It is particularly difficult for small and medium-sized enterprises – the backbone of our economy – who often cannot afford to meet these new red tape demands now. As you can see, the tax share in the energy price is nevertheless extremely high. It would be possible to have a large steering effect in this respect if tax-money wastage were to be curbed. There is no need for planning, bureaucratic controls or additional burdens on entrepreneurs, nor for households. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Producers are practically forced to pass on these costs to customers, which the law affords. In other words, products are becoming more expensive, competitiveness is being reduced. If you look at it this way, the most efficient way in the sense of this law would be to save the industry 100 percent of the energy by packing the suitcases and going elsewhere. One can observe the unfortunately God's, both in Austria and throughout Europe, where constantly deindustrialized. In this context, I found the answer to points 5 and 6 of this question particularly interesting, where the Minister said: “If, for example, the economy or the population were to grow weaker than expected, achieving the 1,050 PJ target would also be possible without overperformance of the annual 1.5% savings.” So if we have less economic growth and less population growth, we need less energy. So hopefully this is not a self-fulfilled prophecy – we want more economic growth, we want more population growth. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Decoupling it from energy consumption!]] We need jobs, healthy companies that, of course, produce energy efficiently in their own interest. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] The reality simply shows: You can and should not regulate everything. We can really rely on the innovative power of industry and the economy, because they have to be competitive, and we can also rely on the energy awareness of citizens, consumers, electricity customers, because they have to pay the bill at the end of the day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e15196	Next speaker: Mr Schellhorn. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e15217	Thank you, Madam President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Minister! You said you didn't understand the excitement. I understand the excitement somehow, because just for this two-thirds majority, the Greens have dropped their pants, and you don't let them pull up anymore, because nothing goes on. This is actually the basic problem, and that is why the Greens are so excited. In my opinion, this is a profoundly gripping problem than just what is on the note when it comes to tanking. It is true that this law adopted a year ago, which was, of course, also adopted with the help of the Greens, has not continued. But what is the problem behind it? – We do not have an energy strategy 2050, which is the general problem. We simply don't have strategic orientations and no energy master plan, and you also see in part – and here you are the energy minister responsible – that crazy mistakes happen. The latest example of this is the discussion in the Styria about Mellach. There, the Steirers and the Association do not know how to deal with Mellach now, whether the city of Graz should put in a work or not to cover tips. That's the blatant problem. It's about energy efficiency, and I just need a master plan. We have to say: Nothing's been anything except spouts! If you have had the study for the energy strategies cost €400 000 – which has been rubbed – or since 2012 is another study in the pipeline, which is still not finished, I already wonder: Where should the journey go, and where should we send this Energy Master Plan? I don't think you're willing to look beyond the border of 2020, and that's a fatal mistake. When I It may quote here: “... this process should at least be completed in this legislative period”. That's a much said sentence. Although it has not been heard for a long time yet, this sentence has been heard exactly. Let us also consider, for example, the issue of eco electricity promotion – these are issues that are simply not coordinated and are not rigorously summarized. If the President of the Federation of Renewable Energy says Austria literally that there is no need to promote the sun and the wind, I ask you to take this seriously and to implement it once. We need more than just the reference to a gas station bill, and I am also right to Mr Willi: It is legal to examine what is now feasible and what cannot be done and what is not. We need a rigorous energy strategy. You have this responsibility to the companies, to the industry, so that you know the information. This is also a matter of site security. In this respect, we need no papers and no Murks. Finally, we need something reasonable in this respect, rather than just hoping that it will end in this legislative period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e15279	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[15:51:51]] Short debate on a deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e15300	We now come to the brief debate on the request made by Mr Dr. Strolz, colleagues, to the Constitutional Committee to report on Mr Strache's request 65/A to the House. ==References== After the end of this debate, the vote will take place on the proposed deadline. We are going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that no speaker/no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with you, Dr. Strolz, as first speaker for reasons of reasons, having a speaking time of 10 minutes. Please, Mr Klubobmann Strolz.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e15330	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear citizens on the visitor gallery, in front of the screens at home, on the go, in the offices! “This is just the curse of evil deeds, that it, provoking, must always bear evil,” Schiller writes. [[Abg. Lopatka: Yes!]] This quote describes the background of this federal government. [[Abg. Lopatka: But go!]] This federal government has come into office through election disappointment. [[Call the ÖVP:Yes hello!]] She doesn't have a legitimate basis morally, and since then she hasn't really gotten out of the spot. It has never really come to the fore, at least not for the benefit of the citizens. [[Abg. Auer: And it's out of step!]] I can prove it very well. What is the evil act at the beginning of this government work? – At the time, about a year before the election, you received a letter from the Supervisory Board of the Hypo-Bank, the Minister of Finance, where the Hypo Supervisory Board as well as the Management Board et cetera – all experts! – have insisted on urgent action. If they don't, they will and will burn billions of taxpayers, of your money, dear citizens, who listen to you today. What have SPÖ and ÖVP decided? – They have decided that they will keep this matter secret from the population. They will consciously deceive the people. They will consciously take the billions, the hard-working tax billions of citizens, into their hands in order to carry this hypo disaster further away, and they will not go to the light with the truth until after the National Council elections. This is the evil act that came at the beginning of this government work. At the expense of the citizens, the citizens were deceived. That's, like I mean, a shame. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] You've never recovered from this shame, I suppose. They never got in the kick. If you look at what you use your power for, I have the feeling that you use it especially for games, for mouse chatting, for post chess – keyword: Adopting non- fractional mandates, Mr Lopatka. The motto of this government is: Tacting, enslaving, somehow we'll get through the rounds by 2018! The real reform tasks don't suit you because you can't or don't want to, or because you think you don't have the strength or the sincerity to do so. That's why we say NEOS, that can't go on. We can't just pretend to be nothing and let you continue until 2018. You, dear ÖVP, dear SPÖ, make this country poor. They're making people poor. You are making this country poor in future opportunities – that is especially bitter for young people – and you are, of course, making people in the money market in the truest sense of the word poor. Why? – In recent years, and intensified in recent months, Austria is on the Loserstraße. We're just on the acceleration track on the loser road. We are in the descent in all rankings, where we should come forward, in terms of location comparisons. As regards the tax and tax rate, the pressure on people who are increasing public debt is constantly increasing, which is galloping unemployment. Already at Christmas half a million people will sit under the Christmas tree. Also next year, we will have to fight today's forecasts with 6 to 8 percent growth in unemployment. So we will have well over half a million unemployed by the end of next year. That means you're making people poor at job opportunities, at future opportunities and in money bags. They make young people poor, the educational blockade continues to rule, we harden ourselves in education to a poor degree. You of the ÖVP, you of the SPÖ, you are leading Austria into the terror of mediocrity, and we will prevent that. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Kogler: What, terror?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Lopatka: Terror?- Oh, my God!]] Of course, this is a terror when young people's prospects for the future are cut as incomes, real wages, fall. Of course, it is not easy for people to deal with it. You are busy with yourself and with securing your power and your positions and armchairs. That is why we are proposing a deadline today. We will not play this game because Austria needs a determined restart. If we continue this way, we'll drive this country to the wall, and NEOS won't be in there. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] The first international newspapers already write that Austria is the Greece of the Alps. That is not what we have invented, foreign observers say. If you continue to give gas on the acceleration track on the Loserstraße, we will land where other countries like Greece are right. You remember the cuckoo I used to stick to here. Of course, if we don't get out of this lost road by a complete turnaround, that's our destination. That is why our deadline proposal so that we can decide a new election here in the House tomorrow on the basis of a request already in the Constitutional Committee. I'm glad the greens go with me. I assume the FPÖ is going along. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schrangl.]] I hope that the Stronach team will go along, and if they are sincere, the free mandates in the government parties should ask themselves if that can do what you show here. But no, they're going to follow the line, I know. There will be new elections, sooner or later, because people have long understood that this is not going to happen anymore. It's not going out in Austria. It's not going out in Vienna. In Vienna we have for the first time in an Austrian state a mood of change, where more than half of the population says: That's how it can and that's not supposed to go on anymore. If the only argument is the fear of a startling FPÖ, I say: Yeah, then wait one more, two, three months, years. Fear won't disappear, but you'll get the FPÖ business! [[Congratulations to the NEOS and to Mr Schrangl and Mr Podgorschek.]] And before the FPÖ claps, I have to put a thought on it: The people who say yes, it goes well in Austria anyway – rising unemployment, rising government debt, falling real wages, fortifying the educational blockade et cetera – who say, yes, that's good and that's what they're supposed to say, no new elections, and they have to choose in Vienna and elsewhere where red or black. Those who say no, it needs a change in this country, they have two possibilities. There are two forces for change in October and September. This is the FPÖ, and that is NEOS – these are the two possibilities for change for the people: the change that has turned backwards from our point of view, and the change that is aimed at the future that has broken out in 2013 as a child of confidence. We NEOS are the principle of hope, and we will bring it into this Republic in the next elections. Whenever the next election comes at federal level, we will be there as the positive, worldly power of change. This is what we work on every day, and we are ready to take on responsibility. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e15488	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Arbitrator. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e15510	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen – both those who have followed this debate and have followed the previous contribution, and you here in the House! I am not speaking here, that is to say : [[Abg. Kogler: Then it's faster!]] On the one hand, listen that it is “terror”, on the other hand, quite honestly – the terror of mediocrity, as Mr Strolz feels. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: The mediocre!]] I find it much more condescending to experience here the misery that the difficulties of the plane arise after having had a bit of a strong campaign with the NEOS, and this crappy attempt to turn on and turn the wheel of eclipticness. This makes me almost speechless, as one believes, on the one hand, in self-dazzling, there is a two-threading stork or rhinestone – that will really be able to judge political science with all its hardness – but also, on the other hand, how despair seems to drive one there to deliver such a performance. [[Abg. Meinl-Reisinger: Meinl-Reisinger or Strache!]] But one thing I don't want to leave unattended right now – because the original NEOS approach, to say, we want to argue objectively, it's supposed to have been picked at the tree's embrace, and here's left that you're going to stage yourself like you staged. However, I still want to try to add two factual arguments, why both the set-aside and the setting-up in itself are a completely wrong approach. [[Abg. Stroll: For new elections?]] If you look at what has been decided in the Council of Ministers yesterday and are thus also being sent to the House here today and can therefore be decided in the next committees and thus also in July-Plenum – if we only take this section without talking about what we decide today and what we have to do in the autumn – we see how important it is that we continue to work and not let ourselves be driven into any new election wishes of Mr Strolz. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: A far-reaching opportunity for taxpayers! A tedious chance!]] It is the whole chapter of criminal law which contains a wide range of changes, important issues such as the change in inheritance law in Austria or the novelties of inheritance rights, which provides for a more modern version of care and all these issues, the deposit protection system, which is to implement the European banking deposit system in the way the European Council has decided, and thus make the financial system a more crisis-resistant one, the dispute settlement law in consumer matters, which is also a central point in consumer protection, the entire social fraud prevention package that we are going to discuss in detail here, but also on which it is essential to ensure that social fraud, the passing of health insurances, labour law standards and tax standards in Austria is not possible – we want to fight it more strongly – the science fund novels that are providing additional funding in the research and technology field, as well as the rental law which is only under negotiation, but I have now only dealt with the subject matter of the next tax reform. [[Abg. Loacker: do nothing!]] [[Abg. Moser: The rental right!]] [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: For 20 years!]] 5 billion € to impose relief on workers in this country for next year, which will increase purchasing power and thus also provide an economic impulse, which, at the same time, is a fundamental step forward in the distribution effect, namely that small incomes remain more on the stock exchange and, of course, are also used for the costs of daily life and thus also for consumption and economic activity. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stroll]] That, by the way, is what all economic researchers say about doing it, we want to decide in July. You don't seem to be, because you just want all these projects to be slowed down by new elections. I think that is a pity, politically wrong, and of the analytical power you have shown, actually only the wonder of their currency – instead of the terror of the average of what has been commanded here. Therefore, you will understand that we will not go along, because it is fundamental to reject it and actually was not even a funny attempt to get back into the headlines somehow. [[Abg. Stroll: Don't you go with me?]] It is a pity that your policy has arrived at this level. They have once taken action to make a policy of matters. In the meantime you have been working on this level. Shame, wreak it, we won't go with you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e15663	Mr Klubobmann Dr. Lopatka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e15684	Ladies and gentlemen! I can connect right there, where Klubobmann has stopped edifiers. I understand Mr Klubobmann Matthias Strolz if he wants new elections. If I look at the last two country election results of NEOS, just under 2.5 percent, once just over 2.5 percent, i.e. both times on average half of what it was the last time – colleague Strolz, in the municipal elections, I know it was much worse, once 0.89 percent, once 0.39 percent. [[Abg. Strolz: It's about Austria! It's about Austria!]] [[Mr Strolz and Mr Loacker.]] That you want to flee in new elections, I understand that only we are not available. We want to work and we don't want new elections, colleague Strolz. The results were bitter for you, I know, I understand, the results were bitter for you. [[Abg. Stroll: You're a chair glue!]] You might actually be glad that we extended the legislative period to 5 years, because you have at least that time safe. [[New calls from Members Strolz and Loacker.]] Look, your problem is not just that you have long given up what you promised to do – to make a matter policy. People are increasingly aware that: They are free of content and that the NEOS party is only looking for the quick headline. [[Abg. Stroll: (keeping a brochure in height) That's how you should have done it!]] – Yes, you have written a lot of copies of us, I know, but you can point it out. Look, your problem is to break down the 4-percent hat, and you're on the best way there. You will then see it again in Upper Austria next time, then you will make a new request here again, because of course the fear of not being successful in elections, from election to election – I understand it – is increasing with you. But what Austria needs is material work, and I tell you: [[Abg. Stroll: A new government!]] There is no reason, in fact, for new elections. What problem has been solved with new elections? What problem is solved with new elections? [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Reforms! Education reform!]] The asylum problem? Unemployment? – That's solved with new elections? [[Abg. Stroll: government debt!]] The government debt? - Well, that's great! Faith You're really doing this yourself, that new elections solve anything in the country? – No, certainly not, no, certainly not. [[Abg. Stroll: You're a terrifying glue!]] [[Abg. Stroll: But sure!]] I've been there a couple of times when we had premature new elections, maybe you were still supporting us. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] So I assume that at the time you supported Karlheinz Koppals for his parliamentary staff. The colleague Meinl nodds, so she was still supportive at the time. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: I remembered that!]] – Well, then I misunderstanded, you only remembered that you were still on the road for us at that time. Look what I want to tell you – because I don't want to talk for too long: What we need, we will discuss it again today, are solutions – on the asylum issue, on a question that employs all governments across Europe, including our federal government, and on such issues I would expect more of you than you have shown so far, because you have always said that you are involved in the European idea and the achievement of European solutions. [[Abg. Stroll: Ten-Point Plan!]] I've noticed little of that lately. Where you can support us, where we also have a coalition partner to come up with solutions, is to secure our pension system permanently. [[Abg. Stroll: Yes!]] That's a big challenge. They have the opportunity to support us, and we are in a good way with the Greens to come to a solution as regards the new rules in banking secrecy, in the fight against tax fraud. I'm excited if you'll take responsibility or get stuck back in the empty screams after new elections. [[Abg. Stroll: The judicial decision is still missing!]] Well, I remember what you said as an intermediate call when you were there. If that's the case, I'm excited if you're there. You will be able to prove whether your word applies within a month. Look, what's our goal? – 2018 to be where we were in 2005, as the “star” then entitled: ‘Austria. The better Germany". And in the subtitle it said: “How did they do that? Good mood, more growth, new jobs: While frustration is soaring in this country, greed is becoming a national virtue and unemployment is increasing, progress is being made in the Alpine Republic.” [[Abg. Loacker: That's ten years ago!]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Strolz and Mr Meinl-Reisinger.]] That's what we want again. We want to get back where we were in 2005. [[Abg. Stroll: That's the problem!]] We need a little more time, we need the support of the coalition partner. That's why I'm saying: Continue work for Austria and no new elections!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e15925	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Schrangl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e15946	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Lopatka, perhaps during the last or previous elections, the two gentlemen and the lady of the NEOS have still supported you. But the two have failed – not quite in my mind, I must say, but they have failed, and they want to change something. And I also believe that people have failed in this Republic and that you will probably no longer be supported if this re-election request goes through today. There are a variety of reasons, even if you have meant that there are no reasons why you could make new elections, and each of these would justify new elections alone. But I've got a few minutes left, and I'll just explain to you why I find this: The ÖVP simply broke countless election promises. How was this heard before the election by the then vice-channer Spindelegger: No new taxes. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ as well as with representatives of Team Stronach and NEOS.]] Yes, do you believe that people out there are to explain that tax increases do not mean new taxes? – You wonder why there’s a political starkness out there – I deliberately say “political shatterness” and not “political irration” – and then, apologise for this expression, pacify the people with saying: Tax increases are not new taxes? – Or Vice-Chancellor Mitterlehner turns himself and says: No, there's no inheritance tax. Yes, what else is an increase in the income tax in the family association by up to tenfold? What else is this, please, I'm asking you? [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Hagen.]] The decommissioning of the economy – yes, I also believe it: The registration obligation is probably a foothold of the economy. It's not a detachment, it's what you put on. [[==References====External links== Hagen.]] They require the small and medium-sized enterprises of Austria, each Austrian, to be tax fraud. And you put that under any little grandma with a savings book, where she has for decades separated something from her shabby pension, because you want to look into it now, on suspicion. Excuse me: If there is a deep suspicion, you can look into it even now. There is a judicial decision from a judge Senate, and then you can look into it if there is a reasonable suspicion. Why do you suddenly have to let every financial official look in? – In 10 years you suggest that we create the cash, and we can only have bank accounts at all, and we may submit the bank extract to the Financial Office immediately from the outset. That's your next idea. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Loacker.]] You haven't changed the expenditure side. What about the conveyors? With the big announcements that you want to clean up the state budget? - Nothing. You spoke first of an expert, Mr. Klubobmann Lopatka. I'll tell you something that many experts say: Austria has an expenditure problem, not a revenue problem. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lopatka.]] They have taken place and the EIA is calling for us to have a balanced government budget. And you're not doing anything. They try nothing on the part of expenditure, but increase taxes and push the citizens of this country to the point where it is no longer possible. Then we'll see what's going to happen. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Loacker.]] In contrast, you protect corporations that tax their corporate profits in Austria in low-tax countries, and you harm any Austrians, because they can afford to transfer their financial assets to abroad very easily with their tax avoidance departments, and at the Austrian housekeeper I look at how it does, whether it takes its home suddenly and then returns to Hungary. So that's really a joke. And if you say yes, I'll see if you agree to the tax reform, maybe there's a judicial decision: In a great reform, supported by every party in this House, we have summarized the independent administrative Senates to national administration courts and the Federal Administrative Court – and now suddenly come So you and you want to create a new authority, a legal protection officer whom you elsewhere, namely, freedom of information, when it comes to creating a glass state and not to spy out the glass citizens, and on the other hand, you would suddenly have the idea of introducing a new authority. So that's really not consistent. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I'll tell you something. I am glad that the NEOS have brought this new request from the FPÖ back on the tapet. There are a hundred reasons why he should go through today. I would be delighted with your support, because I think that new elections are solving problems, namely the gordic knots of these dissidents. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e16027	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e16048	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, the Green Group will agree to this deadline. It is certainly right and reasonable to always have the pressure to actually bring about new elections. I have to admit, I am a little disappointed by my colleagues of the opposition that we are not, as it were, bringing any more in-depth steam into the debate. But the concern is right, and let's see what else we can save. If we have a government that is about that way, and against the background of all the problems we have – not only in Austria, on which we will still come, also European or even worldwide – we need a capable government or government. But what do we find – with all respect and the small attempt to achieve something there or there, at least in the function of the Federal Chancellor? – Unfortunately, it’s right what most commentators write, namely, there’s now someone chancellor, for quite a long time, who doesn’t really want much, but one thing already: Chancellor. [[Abg. Fekter: Haha!]] And that's too little. And that is what you feel, you see, the population also notices that, as do the government colleagues. Mrs Fekter has my sympathy when she now congratulates this Bonmot with sympathy, but that is unfortunately tragic what I said about Mr Chancellor. You may know, because at least you could be told that you wanted something. Yes, not always the same as us, but you at least wanted something, just as one of the predecessors in the Chancellorship, who at least always wanted something, mostly something different than the Greens, but this seems to me to be more acceptable to politics and to the debate. And here alone we already have a core of the problem, that in times like those in which many waves actually hit us – that is indeed so – we need a different leadership. Second: Mr. Vice-Chancellor. We have experienced this more often than not, that it is constantly being re-started when the ÖVP replaces someone. We are already there again, that the government groups, including the ministers in the government, are blocking each other over long distances. There are a few projects that are still coming in, but that does not seem really ambitious. The “Django effect” is not so much left. Sometimes you feel like he's sitting on a horse that he doesn't “driving ” himself, and they are galloping around somewhere. When I look at what the Minister of the Interior is doing in the asylum question – I do not know if this is with Mr Vice-Chancellor's knowledge and will! I'd rather mean, he's on the wrong horse. In other contexts one has the impression that he is sitting on a dead gaul; there is no longer much there either. In any case: Django is none of that! He knows where he rides, he has his horse in his grip – in the one case – and in the second case he should even notice that he can't hang around on a dead gaul, and then, as he would have liked, he can be celebrated in the cinema hall. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] How can you support this now? – We have the findings that we are from European development alone... – It is about the new elections! [[Abg. Rädler: On the matter!]] I'm just saying it'd be good if there were two others at the top. European development is already bad enough, perhaps there is nothing right for it here. [[Abg. Fekter: Maybe you could...!]] But we might need a better lead duo in the situation. When I look at the economic and financial crisis: Although the Chancellor is in Greece today, he visits various institutions there, speaks to Mr Tsipras – but where is the Austrian initiative to finally act at European level in such a way that another economic and financial policy course is taken? - There isn't! You won't even agree! If the SPÖ had an idea that might be based on its principles – which is not the case anyway – we would be there at the latest tomorrow that you would block from the ÖVP again. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Once we skip TTIP in a noble way, how you try and block each other – which will be a very dynamic debate in the next few years, since there is a complete failure in government – we come to a problem or a subject that is certainly not only easy to handle: asylum. What's going on here is quite next to it! At least one minister is completely retiring, and as long as the whole government is making the wall, the whole government has a logic. What has happened here is obviously party-political calculation – I am already done, Madam President – by believing on the part of the ÖVP, if one has organized such a thing before the country elections, then the ÖVP also loses to the FPÖ, but not as much as the SPÖ, and in this way one could overtake the SPÖ again in the Styria. [[President Bures gives the bell sign]] That just didn't go out – on another way you did it, that's the Lopatka method. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Höfinger]] That's all, just no government ability – everything to the detriment of the country!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e16136	Next speaker: Ms. Club Chairman Dietrich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e16167	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Lugar: (in the direction of ÖVP)... so nervous!]] Yes, of course, there are areas for us as the opposition party, with which we are absolutely unsatisfied and where we are in a standstill. We stop when it comes to finally making reforms, finally having a business-friendly policy in this country, an economy without bureaucracy! What Spindelegger had yet addressed as “the detachment of the economy” became a gag. If I think of Minister of Finance Schelling, we've given him some really fine-tuning berries. We were of the opinion that this is now someone from the economy who will do something for entrepreneurs – and I say to you: We are deeply disappointed because exactly the opposite has occurred! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Now we are going in a direction that we do not support if, for example, banking secrecy is to fall if entrepreneurs are to be criminalized – registers duty, many things that are absolutely harmful to entrepreneurs. There I am with you. There are also areas in the asylum problem where I wonder: What responsibility did the Minister take over at all? Is she going to fill this office? – These are really points where we practice massive criticism by the Stronach team. Or the pension area, where much too slow goes, where we miss transparency and where we also miss the responsibility of the younger generation. Here we see absolute need for action. The arch can be extended further to the transparency database, where 80 billion are moved and no human knows where to go. If we've been listening to the ÖVP today, we now know: Well, you have to do something for your clients. – Now it is clear to me why you don’t want to install the transparency database so quickly: We could see how well our own clients are cared for! But, ladies and gentlemen, there is also a point that speaks for us against new elections. That's that point. [[Abg. Hoefinger: That you are no longer inside then?]] We have the largest financial scandal in the Second Republic. 20 billion were lowered in the hypo, and today I ask myself the question: Why does the FPÖ want to agree with cultivators, strikers, all the networks of power in Carinthia, learn about Carinthia and bring in information and transparency – why do you want to have new elections at this stage? [[Abg. Rädler: Haider!]] For me, the impression is quite clear: There are interests in covering up a lot, hiding a lot and turning away from the investigation committee. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not there! With Robert Lugar, we have discovered a competent man in this committee, who will do everything possible, where political responsibility has failed. [[Abg. Hoefinger: What? Go!]] I am already looking forward to discussing the responsibilities of the various parties in this plenary session, and I can say to you today: We from the Stronach team were nowhere, our vest is white! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] But some probably want it not to be clarified here. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e16283	Reported as follows: Mrs Mag. Meinl-Risinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e16315	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear viewers! I would like to read to you a little bit – from the point of view: “if you have reached one point... that you will be lost for years... 3 years”, I would say, one and a half years we have “trying to proceed democratically – to find solutions – without success! At some point one asks one basic question: Am I joining the system? “... I’m tired of all these lies! ” [[Abg. The Anna Fenninger! It has lost nothing in politics!]] These were excerpts from the posting that yesterday put Anna Fenninger on Facebook. When I read this, I thought: This could be just as heard on the streets of people in relation to this policy, this government in Austria! [[Congratulation with NEOS and FPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] It could also come from us NEOS delegates, because: Why do the NEOS demand new elections? – Make Don't worry about the NEOS! If we're afraid to say at this point: “Huh, would we perhaps get back into the National Council?”, then we would be quite the same as you! [[Huh-Rufe at the ÖVP]] [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] Then the only thing that would interest us would be our armchairs, our posts in this National Council, our retention of power, our club promotion, our party financing. But that's not why I went into politics. This is not the reason why NEOS exists! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Intervocations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Mr. Klubobmann! They wanted to give you reasons for content, I'll give you some. Tax reform is a reason; I would call it collective reform. I'd call it a bad chance. They have just said – and the Minister of Finance has said so too – that Austria has an expenditure problem, not a revenue problem. It is a shame that you are funding this collective reform on the principle of hope, mainly on the part of the income side and above all in such a way that there is no administrative reform yet! I give you a second example: Pension reform. How important it would be – and you know that, unfortunately, you don't – to set up this pension system generation-friendly, in the responsibility of generations to each other and for each other, thus ensuring sustainable for the future! [[towards SPÖ]] And the most important thing: the education system! Announcements, nothing but announcements that have happened over the last one and a half years – and as these announcements take place here, we see year after year how young people leave the compulsory school, which cannot read g’scheit, cannot expect nothing and simply have a direct way to the labour market service. That's a shame to this government! There is an urgent need to do something in this area. I mean it seriously when I say I'm worried about this country. Not only foreign media, but also Austrian commentators say – this can Read it almost every day –: We're going against the wall! The only thing you want is to maintain this political system. For this you are fighting: for the preservation of your posts, your armchairs, which you push back and forth, for your party financing, for your club promotion, for the preservation of this political system! [[Abg. Rädler: Hazelsteiner!]] It is precisely for this reason that we argue that there is a change: against this political system, which – and I am convinced of it – is dying.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e16419	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request, the Constitutional Committee for Reporting on Amendment No 65/A by Mr Strache, fellow Members, a deadline until 18. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this deadline request to give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[16:31:04]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e16455	I shall now resume the negotiations on item 17 of the agenda. The next item is Mrs Schenk's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e16479	Madam President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I refer, in my speech to the Court of Auditors' report, to the chapter on the subject of migration, because this is a very important subject, is still working on us and also I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report. This report dates back to 2013, but the problems are still as obvious today as in the period under review. The unclear data situation makes it difficult to measure the success of school language support; Keywords: Dispersion of competence. The Court of Auditors came to this conclusion. Among other things, he complained that various strategic approaches and individual measures would make coordination and coordination more difficult. There is no uniform procedure for collecting language skills, says the Court of Auditors. In kindergartens, language stands are carried out, but this information may only be passed on to the public schools for data protection reasons with the consent of the parents. There are, as has been said, no mandatory requirements for establishing language skills. In some federal states – here you can also see the division of competence, as everything is different from the federal state to the federal state – children aged three to six were examined, otherwise only four years were tested. In Carinthia, for example, only those children who had linguistic problems before entering the kindergarten were involved. As has been said, the report dates back to 2013. In part, this criticism of the Court of Auditors is partially obsolete, because there have already been changes here, because there has been a ministerial change. But the fact is that the last stand looks like this: The government parties are in disagreement here again! The question of how to raise the German skills of students so that everyone can follow the teaching has recently been put out of a working group in a clause on the long-term bank. ==References== The results will only be put on the table here on November. It has been pushed to the long bank, as I said, and it will be delayed again. Let me briefly mention a few figures, namely from the 2014 integration report. According to this, a total of 7 percent of the 15 to 24 year-olds in 2013 were neither employed nor in education or training. Young people without a migration background were affected by 5 percent, young people with a migration background to 15 percent, ladies and gentlemen. I would also like to get out of the “standard” of 28. The development of students with major German problems, which are classified as ‘extraordinary students’, is dramatic: 27,000 are Austrian, about 10,000 more than four years ago. The figures will continue to grow in view of the forecast waves of refugees.” Ladies and gentlemen! These are figures, data and facts from 2015. This shows that we are facing a big problem here and have a big problem. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I would also like to address the issue of the provision of principle for sexual education, particularly as regards students with migration backgrounds. This decree, which Mrs Minister has proposed to implement, is in opposition and has caused great criticism. I also do not believe that there will be a lot of joy here for students with migration backgrounds or their parents. I would just like to refer to Germany here. In North Rhine-Westphalia, this decree has already been implemented, and if I quote from it, this would not be youth-free. I could not do that with a calm conscience, because it is puzzling, ladies and gentlemen. I hope that we can also talk about this in a committee, and here we also have this problem. the table can be laid, because what is meant and demanded here and is already being implemented there is really hard-wearing. We must certainly not do that!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e16552	Mr Klubobmann Dr. Strolz is next spoken. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e16573	Madam President. Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear citizens! Dear students, if you watch here, now or in retrospect on YouTube! This is the debate of a Court of Auditors report on integration in the broadest sense. It's about students with migration backgrounds. These students do in urban areas – example: Vienna – now half of the students total. That is, it is a huge task that the Republic of Austria has. We NEOS have a very clear view. Some say yes: Let's take care of our children, and let's see that we're getting rid of the other problem. – These children are our children! They will pay the pensions of the future, and they will finance the social systems of the future. It is infinitely important that these children, who are our treasure, come into development – and we do not succeed well enough! 20 percent can't just read with 15, which we press a stamp on the brain with 15: Permanence Labour Market Service! This is their destination for the rest of life. The Court of Auditors shall take a very precise approach to this wound by listing: How can it come about? – Because in this group of those who can’t just read 15 – many of them don’t expect – many are particularly many with migration backgrounds. I do not share the work hypothesis of the Austrian education system that foreigners are twice as depressed as domestic children. This is obviously the work hypothesis of the Austrian education system, because that is what statistics have been saying for years – and nothing is changed about it. They are twice under-represented in vocational and general education schools compared to special schools. So we collect children of migrants very reliably for years and decades in special schools. This, of course, has to do with the fact that they often cannot do well enough German, and therefore it must be our concern that all children can do German properly! We increasingly also have the problem with the Austrians that they can't get German. The key, of course, is also the mother tongue for foreigners or children with migration backgrounds, because I will also develop German especially if I do master my mother tongue properly. We need to invest in this, which is target-oriented investment. The Court of Auditors says there are no clear targets, there are no clear figures, there is simply no quality management. No figures can be given at the Ministry and the Vienna City School Council either on the use of personnel or on expenditure for the years 2006/07 to 2010/11. That means, we spend money, but we're on the whole blind flight. That is why we do not achieve the objectives either, because we have not even properly formulated them. The result is that we have a fifth of young people – unfortunately, especially many children with migration background – who cannot read properly, cannot write properly. They're going to be very difficult to do with an egg. to acquire home, to establish families et cetera; they will fight their lives with unemployment, again and again. That's the point: We should not lift up these young people's wings, but help them to lift their own wings, but they will break their wings. Every year we turn to the most brutal thousands of young CVs. We can do better! The Court of Auditors shows how.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e16636	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Mulder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e16658	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! A chapter in this report also deals with the use of personnel and the assignment of services to the police. The criticism expressed in the report as a whole, namely that the Ministry of the Interior has no defined criteria for the definition of staff levels, is still very up-to-date. On the one hand, I would like to refer to my request from the previous year, but on the other hand I would also like to document the subject with examples from the practice. I have made a request for the personnel situation in Vienna, especially in Vienna Donaustadt. On the one hand, there is no consideration for human resources regarding the dynamic development of infrastructure and the growth of the population at all, as it remained more or less unchanged from 2006 to 2013. On the other hand, comparison with other areas does not show any proportionality either. ==References====External links== District, which at that time had 155 000 inhabitants, 102 km2 and 266 officials, or the 10. District with 175,000 inhabitants at the time, 31 km2 and 304 officials compared to a downtown area – three districts combined – with 93,000 inhabitants and 6 km2 392 officials, this shows that the personnel classification is very uneven. Because of this human underemployment and the fact that it is growing districts, it is natural for officials to find a huge psychological and physical overload. The Court of Auditors also points out that these staff levels have partly grown historically. I mention this because the situation has been presented in a new light since yesterday. There is a new population forecast of Statistics Austria, which points out that there are strong increases in the population, especially in cities – in the Danube city, 27 percent by 2030. In this light, the negligences of the past – for example, that the project has not been implemented by 1 000 police officers more for Vienna – are a real big problem. Such projects are no longer to be postponed! The underweighting of human resources in the agglomeration centres must also be offset against less densely populated areas. An objective is still mentioned in the Court of Auditors' report, namely the possibility of electronic service documentation. I would just like to do this briefly as a means of controlling. In reply to my last question, it was shown that at certain times there is not a sufficiently precise picture of the allocation of personnel, because after The start of the service begins in Vienna with a proper travel activity with the officials, and these are then not available in their original department. Therefore, in my last request, I went over to ask for the staff stand at certain hours to show that it is important to have an appropriate standing for officials. From this point of view, I think that this report is still highly up-to-date, although it is already older. The Minister of the Interior is called upon to manage the staffing more efficiently in line with the development of the population, to provide the promised 1,000 police officers and to present the staffing status more transparently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e16716	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Hanger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e16737	Madam President. Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I am also referring to the Court of Auditors' report on the chapter on pupils with migration backgrounds, answers from the school system. It is also a good opportunity for me to make some fundamental considerations. I personally believe that if we want to address these challenges with optimism, we actually only have one way; but in Austria, two ways are currently being discussed. There is basically the possibility to build bridges, or the possibility to build walls. I have a little the impression that, unfortunately, many walls are being built again in Austria too – in the heads. Foreigners, immigrants are almost acting as a sign to address all possible problems in Austria. But there are also other initiatives that I am very pleased with and which I now want to outline. I think we need lighthouse movements to build bridges. I come from the constituency Mostviertel, and there – in the city of Waidhofen on the Ybbs – was just yesterday presented a very great lighthouse project. A whole folk school and a special pedagogical centre have made a follow-up project Building Bridges and are dealing with this topic for a whole week. Especially at yesterday's event, it was successful to show that different cultures, different nations can be something very valuable. I would really like to congratulate from this point of view on the fact that such lighthouse projects are being carried out in my constituency, and would also invite those lighthouse projects to be brought to all parts of Austria, because they are an essential contribution to building bridges even in the heads. Especially on this issue, we need it completely, very urgently. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Yılmaz.]] All in all, I would like to have a differentiated discussion on this subject. I always notice that a subject is being discussed, and everything possible is mixed together. We need a differentiated debate on migration within the European Union. We need to discuss immigration from third countries. And the question of the refugees of war is one of their own, which one has to discuss separately. On the subject of migration within the European Union: Before discussing the disadvantages – of course, this also has an impact on the Austrian labour market – it must always be remembered that the European Community is a success project! We have reduced borders, and Europe has become the most successful peace project. 60, 70 years of no wars in the European Union, that has not yet existed on the continent, and this is appreciated. But Europe is also an economic success story: EU enlargement, the euro has led to more economic growth. [[Intrusion of the Abg. It's funny.]] I find it very exciting – you certainly do not know that again – that, for example, economic power in Poland has doubled since accession to the EU. [[towards FPÖ]] This, I believe, is really to be awarded to Poland, but that also means to us that the export markets that our companies can export to, and this also brings us benefits. Of course, one also has to see the disadvantages, but politics is always for me a question of evaluating the advantages and disadvantages. Of course, intra-European migration means that, especially for countries like Austria, because we have very high standards, this leads to immigration with which we have to deal well. But we must always face the advantages of the disadvantages, and I think that the European integration process has also brought great benefits to Austria, especially to the people who live here. The second issue is immigration from third countries. That's what we should have in mind. We have clear rules. [[Abg. Singer: You can't afford anything at all!]] It is not quite easy to immigrate to Austria. There are very clear rules for this – the red-and-white red card, rules for temporary immigration, for fixed immigration and so on – and we want to do so, but we also want to confess, because of course, there has to be a controlled migration. The third topic – and it is also a heart concern to me, which is now also a bit to do – is the question of refugees of war. So my human image requires me to help. I was so educated. It's easy to say: Limits to, and everything that happens behind the border doesn't interest me!, that can't be access. On the other hand, we also have to look at how we deal with these large quantities and where the solutions can be found. And there, I think, our Mrs Inner Minister really deserves clear support. EU quotas are the command of the hour. It is important to distribute flows of refugees as far as possible across the European continent. We also need action in Austria. Two thirds of the municipalities have not yet taken up any refugees of war. I myself come from a community with 4,000 inhabitants. We currently have two Syrian families, and I say it is an enrichment for a congregation when two Syrian families are there. If we distribute these refugees to the whole federal territory, that can't really be the big problem. But we also have to keep in mind what will develop in the future, and that is why it is precisely the call of the Minister of the Interior to support it accordingly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] All of this has also led – and my previous speakers have already mentioned it – to the fact that, of course, we have a lot of challenges to face in the field of compulsory schooling. The first language of 22 percent of compulsory students is not German. In Vienna there are districts with a share of up to 80 percent of students with migration background. This requires appropriate programmes, which the Court of Auditors has also examined and criticised. The Court of Auditors has also identified potential for improvement, which we should also take seriously, no question at all. This is about the kindergarten sector and how we prepare the children for regular schooling in the best possible way. Much has been done, and many programmes are being run. Appropriately, the division of competence between the local authorities is always addressed. There too we see the need for action, but in general these programmes are very correct. I also think the ÖVP position to stand in the middle of this question is quite right. I think, on the one hand, borderless immigration will not be possible, but on the other hand, it is not the right answer to close the borders. The position in the middle is the right one, and we will also represent them in the future. I think the bridge building should simply take place even more in our minds, then we will also be able to solve these challenges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e16797	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Kumpitsch. I'll set you three minutes' speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e16848	Madam President. Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear viewers on the gallery and in front of the TVs! It's an honor for me to be able to speak here today. Since it is my first speech, I would like to introduce myself to you. [[Abg. Head: Welcome!]] My name is Günther Kumpitsch, I come from Styria, from the district of Graz-Umgegebung, and I am a lawyer in the National Criminal Office of the State Police Department of Styria. For this reason, the safety of our people, but also the working conditions of our police officers, are very much worth it. [[Accompaniment with the FPÖ and the Abg. Reciprocating.]] My topic today is the use of personnel and the way in which the police are dealing with service assignments, which was also addressed by my predecessor, Mrs Ruth Becher. The Court of Auditors criticises in its report of 6. In June 2013, the Federal Ministry of the Interior did not have any defined criteria for the definition of staff positions. The staff equipment was simply growing historically. He recommended to the Federal Ministry that comprehensible and binding criteria be laid down for the personnel equipment – for example, in the executive, by comparing the ratio of crimes and the number of residents and taking other criteria into account. In particular, the Court of Auditors noted that the Federal Ministry was using itself to increase the required staff level of the instrument of service allocations. However, the legislator has a clear picture of service allocations, namely as a temporary measure. Always where there is a man’s need or where it is no different for systemic reasons, one should proceed with service assignments. In fact, however, service allocations, according to figures from 2012, lasted between three and seven years, in individual cases even up to 20 years. The fact is that the financial burden on service allocation fees in the years 2007 to 2011 was an average of € 10 million – that is, no small amount. Two years after this criticism, it appears that there is still an urgent need for action. It is a question of whether the closures of police services carried out in recent years have served as a system adaptation or as a purely security-political ballast. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I also give my colleague Becher the right to say that, of course, these uneven occupations of the services also mean a huge overload of police officers. From the reply to the last parliamentary question concerning overtime services of 26. May shows that there are still serious differences between the systemised and the actual staff levels in the area of police. This also caused more than 343,000 systemized overtimes in the field of the Vienna State Police Directorate in 2014 and many police officers were burdened with the measures. [[Abg. New builder: Incredible!]] The Federal Ministry is therefore invited by us not to simply replace missing posts with allocations as before, but in the interests of the people's safety and in the interests of the police, to bring these systemized staff levels into line with the actual staff positions. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It would then no longer be necessary to work with long-term allocations and other maneuvers. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e16916	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Walser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e16937	Madam President. Mr President. High house! The Court of Auditors has reviewed the effectiveness of the funding measures we put into the Austrian school system. So, for example, How efficient is the funding measure for German as the first language? How efficient are our language promotion courses? What about mother tongue teaching? Mr President, Mr Moser, thank you once again to you and your employees! It is beneficial, we were reading there – beneficial in so far as we have been complaining about it for years. So the results are not surprising, but we have known them for a long time. The government's failure to act is less beneficial because the results are clear. This system is characterized by a competence problem, inefficiency and inconsistency. I agree with the Court of Auditors' recommendations to a hundred percent, but: We're talking here, we're going to get a report again, we're gonna talk about it again – alone, the government is not doing anything. We all know what to do: finally implement these recommendations! I am pleased that there are at least a few positive signs. I was very pleased to see the Minister's response to the statement in Krems. It did not participate in the presentation of the results, and it then interpreted the results completely differently than the Minister for Integration. If I heard earlier, we should build bridges, Mr. Hanger, then I say: Very well, we should build bridges, we should make this possible in the school system, but that is not always what your people are doing from the ÖVP – where, I think, the ÖVP is there, because I hear very positive sounds from Mr Vice-Chancellor, very open tones, by Mr. State Secretary Mahrer, by Mr. Foreign Minister In short, I hear other sounds in this respect, so it would be nice to know what the ÖVP is. It's clear – and that's what all educators tell us, that all scientists tell us that common sense – that ghetto classes, that the isolation of children who have language deficits, that the combination of such children cannot lead to success, because if they can't learn German, where should they learn it? We know that we have other ways to go. I can quote what the OECD says in this context with regard to the Austrian school system. Andreas Schleicher, OECD’s educational expert, speaks of one – I quote – “expression of a system that takes responsibility away. “ He goes on to say: “And so students, especially those with migration backgrounds, are passed down and never get a real chance to develop their potential. Finally, everyone pays for it.” Ladies and gentlemen, this is the crucial point. We punish these children who are already disadvantaged by not promoting them. The whole system costs a lot of money. We're crushing a lot of money, and we're not reaching what we really want to achieve. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] Let me come up with a few suggestions that we Greens have made for a long time and that do not cost a lot of money. Our two-pillar model is based on something that is, for example, implemented exemplaryly in Hamburg, which is this Hamburg model for language promotion. In the main, this is a planable support for children who have language deficits. This is also what the Court of Auditors complains about and then makes a proposal: It needs planning. We cannot limit funds to two years each, because this means that language support takes longer. And the schools need appropriate security to be able to plan. The second is our model of flexible school entry. Very briefly: We want to disband the class associations first, second class, which give children together, have cross-class classes and give the children time. The highly talented children, who are already developed in language, are socially advanced, perhaps only a year. In the normal case, there will be two, and one child or another will need three years. But we don't ban children, we integrate them. That is, I think, the core of our idea. And there I ask: Let the common sense take control! Children learn best from children, we know that. And children who are not able to learn German well learn how to hold children who can do German, very well, and we need to promote that. So let's give all children a chance! We Greens have long said: No child left behind! This applies in particular to those who are disadvantaged.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e17005	Mrs Gessl-Ranftl's next speech.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e17026	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! High house! I refer to the Court of Auditors' report on group taxation. The concerns I had in introducing group taxation have been more than confirmed by this Court of Auditors report. The Court of Auditors clearly showed indirect support, which can hardly be taxed and evaluated. As a result, this also resulted in a high administrative burden. In 2011, this amounted to €15 million. Large-scale auditors had to fight illegible balance sheets, and the lack of transparency, which was also cited by the Court of Auditors, could be explained by the fact that the Ministry of Finance has never properly raised what these tax benefits bring to the country, for example. In addition, the Court of Auditors noted that the State has lost around €455 million annually through group taxation. The essential thing for me is that in the future there will be a better and more meaningful funding report, because it is already necessary to be able to determine which tax benefits the economy uses and which are not. The Court of Auditors report once again proves that tax loopholes and unfair tax benefits are abolished. In conclusion: It is relevant to me that the SPÖ-led Federal Government reformed the group taxation by means of the tax-change law at the beginning of 2014 and thus also provides for more tax justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e17071	Next speaker: Deputies Mag. Lettenbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e17093	Mr National Council President! Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen! I can devote myself to the Court of Auditors' report on the use of personnel and the allocation of services to the police. On the one hand, the Court of Auditors has criticised the fact that the human resources and the service structure in Austria are pre-responsible for historical developments and, of course, are also audited. I have selected some figures – perhaps interesting to you too. ==References== January of the year under review, 27 400 executive officers as full-time equivalents have belonged to the guard of the Federal Police. Also an interesting number: The number of crimes in the area of the agglomerations is always higher than that in the rest of the federal territory. The number of ads is falling, which I think is very positive. When 604,000 ads were returned throughout Austria in 2005, the figure was 527 000 in 2014, around 80 000 less. Among all the federal states, the Burgenland has seen a decrease of 8.3 percent. The Court of Auditors explicitly criticized the service allocations. These take place, as you may know, in practice due to increased tasks due to system requirements. Due to the high requirements and enormous physical loads, Cobra staff can only provide their use for a certain period of time, and a return to their parent service must be possible at any time. The same applies to special commissions, the so-called SOKOs. They shall be assigned a temporary task after which officials may return to their local office. In the period under review, there were eleven SOKOs, two were installed by the federal criminal offices and the rest by the Federal Criminal Office. The SOKO East, which has perhaps been discussed several times here and is perhaps best remembered to you, has been dissolved after a few months, but continues to focus. However, it still bears the name SOKO Ost. Mr President. Since there is no follow-up examination, I would be interested in which of the 23 recommendations made by the Court of Auditors have actually been implemented, which have not been implemented at all and which are put on yellow. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e17144	The next item is the speech by Mr Lausch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e17165	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! I also dedicate myself to the chapter Student with Migration Background and Schooling in general. First of all, I would like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council and his team for this excellent report, which has once again highlighted a lot. Students learn best from students, that's what you can hear from colleagues Mayer and Walser today, it may be all that way. I am all the more surprised that exactly these two parties are opposed to our proposal, proposal – an idea that would cost nothing –: playful learning, German as a language of breaks and says: This is nonsense and doesn't bring anything. I think students can learn a little while playing and make good use of their time during the break. I can tell you from students or now already adults with migration backgrounds who went to school in Austria and have been well integrated, that they confirm that they have always spoken German in school, even during the break. They have, of course, used their leisure time for home care and have also maintained their culture, as far as it is, as good as it should be. I think after school it's enough time for that. The Court of Auditors' report also shows that in 2010/2011, according to an estimate by the Ministry of Education, the BMUKK, some €14 million were spent on mother tongue teaching. That was already an increase of 44.3 percent in 2010/2011. Now, of course, € 14 million in the school system is money that is generally and completely missing. Whether expenditure is necessary to this extent is questioned by my group and I, and I feel that I am somewhat critical of the Court of Auditors. It is even more frightening that there were 5 367 school attempts in Austria in the 2012/2013 school year. These are about 50 percent of the sites where more or less school tests have been carried out. Look, if you draw the comparison, from my point of view, it's terrifying that a Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which has a economical, economic and useful work to do, doesn't ask what any private, any company would ask: What do these school tests cost? It is true that the Court of Auditors has not even been able to determine in retrospect – it has also been noted in the report that there is no overview of – how high the expenditure for these school attempts was. Ladies and gentlemen! That's crazy! It is crazy to start school trials, and not a few, but at 50 percent of school locations, without knowing in advance what it costs, and without questioning. And even after that, you still don't know what these school tests cost. This money is, of course, lacking in education, and with this money one could probably make more meaningful in education. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Of course, it's sad that a Federal Ministry works that way. That is why I would like to thank the Court of Auditors twice for showing exactly such abuses in order to support Parliament in its work. Thanks again for the great work. - Thank you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] 17.1 1
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e17223	The next item is the speech by Mr Kucher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e17244	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr President-in-Office of the Council! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Newly received Mrs. Federal Minister, you are welcome! You are probably already talking about the personnel planning for the police and the cost-saving potential. Please do not forget about Carinthia, a Carinthian President of the Court of Auditors is here and can prove that even in Carinthia, the personnel situation is not quite ideal, as was recently sent in a parliamentary response to the question. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Singer.]] But I would like to come to another subject, namely the agendas of the Ministry of Finance. So far, I have always thought that if you spend €450 million in the Ministry of Finance, you know exactly why you do that, and there is also a catalogue of criteria, measures and objectives that you want to achieve – €450 million is not a small one. The fact that this is not the case is shown in the Court of Auditors' report today, in which the group tax has been considered more closely. With the group taxation – you know – it is possible that losses from foreign subsidiaries will be offset by the profits of Austrian companies within the corporate association. This Austrian model was also very generous in international comparison with other EU countries. One has even forgotten to say that there should be some regional restriction. Loss depreciations have even been recorded with countries with which Austria did not even have an official aid agreement, in which it was of course not possible for the financial offices to control whether these losses actually existed. I would like to come to two passages quoted by the Court of Auditors. The President of the Court of Auditors will probably not make this up so hard, but I do not think that the Court of Auditors' reports are in full flower, in their clarity: “However, lack of detailed and comprehensive knowledge of the effects of all benefits in corporate tax law was lacking both the legislator and the Federal Government and, in particular, the BMF, the necessary basis for political decisions.” That is to say, it is clear from this criticism that there was no scientific basis, no analysis, but that the group taxation was introduced in the blind flight and not based on facts. What's also exciting: The Ministry of Finance was unable to provide verifiable information on the impact of group taxation on the basis of the self-managed data, i.e. the figures that the Ministry of Finance had directly in the house. In summary, this means that group taxation costs a lot, but you do not know whether or what economic effects the group tax has. This is a reason why we also limited group taxation in the tax-change law last year. These were first important steps, and others must follow. We will continue to look at group taxation critically and try to jointly develop new and fairer models of overall group taxation. However, let us take a critical look at the fact that the funds that will be invested, so to speak, that the companies will receive an indirect tax advantage, are also invested in such a way that there are real objectives that will be achieved.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e17295	The last speaker in this debate: Mr Preiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e17317	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. I refer to the Court of Auditors' report on the subject of students with migration backgrounds. The Court of Auditors has specifically highlighted all schools in Austria on this issue, especially primary schools in Vienna. The reporting period covers the years 2006 to 2012. At the end of the day, knowledge of the German language is essential for the success of learning even for students with migration backgrounds, also because it is easier to do so in terms of social contacts and integration. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) This has also been recognised by the Federal Government in good time, so there are important passages on this issue in the current government programme. In the school year 2010/2011 there were around 22 percent of students with a first language other than German in Austria, around 50 percent in Vienna, around 11 percent in Burgenland. This is, of course, a special challenge for the school system in general, but especially for the educators, whom I would like to express my thanks. Ladies and gentlemen. I think that German as a second language, with the language promotion courses, but also with the teaching principle intercultural learning has so far taken very important steps in this direction. I am convinced that the current educational debate will also bring a lot of positive results in 2015 for the integration of students with migration backgrounds. But I also put great expectations here in the implementation of autonomy. In my opinion, what is also necessary in order to facilitate the learning of the German language for students with migration backgrounds? – I think it is essential that we introduce a mandatory second kindergarten year, because the younger someone, the easier he learns a language. As has been said, this also promotes social integration in kindergartens. It is also necessary, however, to provide reasonable data between kindergarten and folk school. The first steps in this regard have already been taken by the federal and federal states in the form of a 15a agreement. I should also like to mention that we need a uniform and clearly comparable level of language throughout the federal territory, because only this allows a reasonable, sustainable evaluation. Finally, I would like to remind you that more than 440 posts in compulsory education are currently available for learning the German language. In my opinion, there must be mandatory continuing and continuing training in the field of German as a second language, but also in the field of intercultural learning, especially as regards the AHS and the BMHS. This compulsory training is already available in general compulsory schools. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e17363	The President of the Court of Auditors, Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e17384	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! On today's agenda there is a report from the Court of Auditors with four audit results, with three audit results including: the Court of Auditors. I would like to thank the members of the Court of Auditors very much for this. These are examination results concerning students with a migration background, benefits under corporate tax law or personnel input and service allocations to the police. In addition, this report, which is on the agenda today, also includes the outcome of the review ‘Food safety system’. When considering these four audit results, they point out that it is necessary to bring together responsibility for tasks, expenditure and financing, as Mr Mayer said in his statement. However, these examination results also show that it would be necessary to use the funds more effectively. To do this, one must not only look at the input, but also the output, and at the same time point out that the use of resources should also have an effect, which, unfortunately, as these reports show, has not always been the case. I would therefore like to take a very brief look at the outcome of the study with regard to students with a migration background, while stressing that the Ministry of Education has responded to constantly changing conditions in good time and has also put in place measures that have been necessary, because especially students with migration backgrounds are more often in educationally relevant risk situations. However, when considering the measures, in particular those aimed at creating equal opportunities, or the target group-specific measures – such as promotion in German, mother language or intercultural learning – it appears that the strategic foundations are very general, and at the same time that there were no meaningful, concrete and measurable characteristics that would have made it possible to review the achievement of the goal. One reason for this was the breakdown of responsibility for tasks, expenditure and financing, which has made it extremely difficult to coordinate these support measures. At the same time, there were also a large number of actors, namely, beyond the school sector, who made it difficult to take an overview of these measures: at the federal level, four ministries or other bodies, including the national level, the local level, and at the same time the social partners were involved. This led to different, non-standardised data acquisitions and the documentation was not such as to ensure a transparent use of resources. This fragmented situation of competence has not given the Ministry of Education the opportunity to control expenditure and, at the same time, the availability and quality of support measures in the countries. In addition, the Ministry of Education had no data on staff input, planning posts and expenditure. That is, if you want the money to actually reach the children, then it would be necessary in this area to summarize responsibility for tasks, expenditure and financing. Unfortunately, however, the Ministry of Education refers only to the constitutional situation and is not prepared to encourage changes in this area. And unfortunately, no recommendations have been implemented in the direction of concrete targets and at the same time evaluation of support measures. That would be necessary, however. For example, if you look at mother tongue teaching, which is absolutely important, you can see that the curriculum does not specify the reachable language levels do not contain standards for ensuring uniform quality. The Ministry could not provide any information on the level of expenditure and, accordingly, the basis for the control was missing. In other words, I hope in view of the outcome of the debate that the shortcomings in this area are actually reduced, because the people who need it deserve to be managed more efficiently in the future. In short, as the tax reform package is now being sent to Parliament: In this context, I would like to point out that the Court of Auditors has examined benefits under income tax law and corporate tax law. The audits have shown that there are 558 benefits, which result in a loss of €9.5 billion, and because of the complexity of these provisions alone, the administrative burden – for the implementation of these benefits – is € 73 million per year. Corporate tax law has 110 benefits, which cost €15 million in administrative expenses and at the same time result in a loss of approximately €450 million. At the same time, however, it should be noted that a comprehensive systematic approach with concrete objectives and measurable criteria is missing. In fact, there are still no indications in this context as to whether and during which period the benefits should be verified. There are no grounds for assessing whether the benefits are justified, whether they are appropriate, whether or not they are appropriate, to achieve their objective and the intended effect. There is a lack of transparency in this case, and this has been raised by Mrs Gessl-Ranftl. The definitions in the funding report are different from the definitions in, for example, the transparency database law. This means that measures in this area are necessary, as well as measures are necessary to reduce the legal base, income tax law or all other tax areas. In the corporate tax sector alone, there have been 60 novels in recent years – 2.5 novels per year – and these numerous novels lead to more extensive and detailed provisions, increasing complication, complex and expensive execution. As far as group taxation is concerned, this has already been mentioned: Measures are also needed, in particular because group taxation represents an increased risk of taxation. It is positive in this context that measures have been put in place, not least with the tax-amendment law 2014. Open in this However, measures continue to be taken in the light of a comprehensive, detailed and binding definition of the concept of tax relief and, at the same time, an annual assessment of the impact of the advantage, in order to be aware: Is the benefit actually there to stimulate the economy in order to stimulate the labour market or to support the socially needy? This means that measures are necessary, as are necessary in terms of personnel deployment and personnel planning at the police. In this respect, a number of measures have already been taken. However, it would also be necessary to encourage measures to flexify the use of personnel – as far as police personnel are concerned. With regard to the food safety system: This is also an indication of the need to act because it is precisely unclear legislation and at the same time A large number of administrative tasks have also made it difficult to operate in the core business. In Vorarlberg alone, half of the total activity of food safety was focused on external service activities, i.e. revisions and samplings; the other activities were in the administrative field. In this case, as has already been explained by Mrs Becher, there was a federal working group in which efficiency improvement measures and a reduction in administrative burden were defined, but the measures were not implemented. The data situation is also more than poor in this area. Finally, I would like to point out that these tests also show: With scarcer resources, if we really want to maintain financial sustainability, it is necessary to simplify the structures, to narrow down the responsibility for tasks, expenditure and financing in order to define clear responsibilities. If we don't, this will lead to the money not coming to the affected. If we do not, this leads to the latter consequence that the satisfaction of the citizens is no longer the one who can in fact justify a social peace. That's why I suggest: Please support the implementation of these recommendations. I think it is in the interest of all of us to take these steps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e17500	No one has made any mention of this. I therefore conclude the debate. We shall vote on the request of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure to take note of this report III-19 of the additions. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Rosenkranz, colleagues on German as a 'Puss language'. Whoever is for that, please give a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Debates of the European Parliament Rosary, ladies and gentlemen on the introduction of a compulsory language survey before entry into primary school. Whoever is for that, please give a sign. – This is the minority. The application is also rejected. [[17:29:13]] 18. Point Report by the Committee on Human Rights on amendment 588/A(E) by Mr Franz Kirchgatterer, Mr Dipl.-Kffr. (FH) Elisabeth Pfurtscheller, colleagues on the human rights situation at EU borders (675 d.a.) 19. Point Report by the Committee on Human Rights on the motion for a resolution (Doc.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e17594	We come to points 18 and 19 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. We are going into the debate. Mr Riemer is the first to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e17621	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) In fact, this proposal has already been overtaken. He has been changed a year ago, 2014 – at the last Human Rights Committee – and if you have heard the story of yesterday in the EU Council of Ministers, you know, he has already been overtaken. So you can see that the old saying is true: Yesterday we were on the brink of the abyss – today we are a significant step further. No one knows where, but everyone is involved – that is the European tragedy, and that is also an Austrian tragedy. Let us take out some of the points from the request, as it says inside: “”() asylum system can be implemented in all EU countries’. – Can anyone explain to me what the asylum system is, complete? Then I'll ask for a follow-up. The next point is a quota allocation. Now I am referring to Otto Pendl, a great Pragmatist of the House – I very much appreciate him – who says: You can talk about everything inconvenient! And he said something great today in the current hour – I quote –: We need “a national shoulder closure. ” I'm on it, too. So we also need to talk about this issue inconveniently. That means: Do we really need quotas? To whom does the quota in Austria benefit, and to whom does it even benefit in the EU? Or can we say inconveniently: The boat in Austria is full!Unknown term type: "%s".? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Just two numbers, I don't want to bore you: 14 225 asylum applications, 160 percent increase compared to the previous year. Then I saw: 314 asylum applications on a day, which is the highest value that has ever been given since there were records. The Minister of the Interior rightly complains that 90 percent of asylum applications have been processed by ten Member States. That means that 18 Member States have finished 10 percent. Please, where is European solidarity? At yesterday's beautiful EU summit, the EU Commission noted that it wanted to divide 40 000 Eritreans and Syrians into the EU. That's a failure! Why did that fail? – It was meant that there is already something unofficial; you can’t befriend yourself with the quotas. The next point was a much better one, that is typical EU-German, implemented by de Maizière, who said there was “not yet a solution, but the common conviction that we need a common solution very soon”. – Can you imagine how far this goes and how it continues in Austria? At the same time, the voluntaryness of states was also negotiated, so it is not compulsory to force the states, but every state decides voluntarily on this quota if it is allowed to give faith to the press. In addition, the Italian representative said that this temporary Schengen visa was not really the case, it was not an official threat of Italy, but only an indiscretion of journalists. Next, that was the Frenchman, in view of the many hundreds of migrants stranded in Italy, has said: Well, that's not it, because there is the will of France and Italy to work together! But the truth is another. We must ask ourselves: How do we deal with this international migration? 1.2 billion Africans exist – or perhaps already more –, what are we doing? – It is important to formulate clear policies and guidelines here in Austria if the EU fails. We must be able to intervene nationally! [[Accompaniment with the FPÖ and the Abg. Lintl.]] We have another problem in the Committee, which I would like to address briefly. It has been smiled and said that there are only isolated cases, few isolated cases of small attacks. – Take the last few days: Traiskirchen, the children no longer trust to go to school. We see it again, in the hotel at Semmering – infamous from the beginning –: Mass strike by 120 asylum seekers. The mayor is right to say that the Minister of the Interior had let him down – above all expressed – because only 50 were actually planned. These people have already lived there, and that was suddenly fitted with another hundred. Mass beating – just to make sure you know what it can cost –: four injured, 50 people directly affected, four sector strips from the room Mürzzuschlag, Kindberg, police strips from Gloggnitz and a dog strip. This harmless use lasted for hours. Harmless?- Oh, my God! I'm not talking about Kufstein, I'm talking about a lot of little things happening in the South Styria. I'm counting on: Street, Arnfels, Oberhaag, Glinstätte, Wildon. I do not know where the Members of Parliament are; they should go there. That's about 10,000 people. These are not horror scenarios, you can see every day this blessed deal with these happy war refugees. Again: These are traumatized, but that the indigenous population is also subject to human rights, which should also be clearly clarified here. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It's about discussing everything. But that also means – that has been said by Mr Cap a year ago – that we have to look at the whole world. What happened to Libya? Why are the refugees coming over from there now? Why was this not possible at Gaddafi? What happened to Iraq? Who are the beneficiaries? Cui bono, who benefits from this? Who benefits from destabilising Africa? Who benefits from multinational corporations making their money where we starve these lands, and, what? Finally, I quote: “A policy of open doors cannot be in the sense of the already living or potential immigrants who are lured by false promises on a dangerous journey.” But one thing we can certainly do, namely what eight national leaders have already said: carry out temporary border controls. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] It's high time. The water is not up to our necks, but over the head. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e17743	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Mr Riemer is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e17870	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Lopatka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e17891	Mr President. The women Federal ministers! Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The Greens believe they can make political change here today. You announced yesterday that you would make a request for distrust. Today at 10 a.m., this request has been received. I tell you why I lack any understanding, now and here, to get a mistrust request from you: There are clear responsibilities in Austria as regards this undoubtedly difficult question. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz.]] The Minister of the Interior is responsible for the first recording. We have an Article 15a agreement with the federal states, which clearly states that the federal states are then responsible. I am not saying now that there is not a great deal of effort on the part of the federal states, but the federal states are, that must also be said, until very few exceptions in recent months have not been able to carry out their tasks. There are also responsibilities within the national governments: In one federal state an ÖVP council is responsible, in six federal states there are SPÖ councils, and in two federal states there are green councillors responsible. [[Interlocutors Walter Rosenkranz and Moser.]] They've seen that they've done something, and they've done more than that in our neighbours. Nevertheless, there is probably more excitement in us than in Italy, France or Greece. I have recently seen refugees in these states on a German private station: On railway stations, under bridges, outdoors, on the street they live. On the other hand, I would like to tell you that an accommodation in tents that the Minister of the Interior had never sought is still much more decent. This is much more humane than what is happening around Austria – but you are very excited! When it comes to taking responsibility in the federal states, I must tell you this is strange. For example, the Minister of Defence has offered: Yeah, let's do something in the barracks. – The answer from Burgenland: We have no need in Burgenland for barracks to be made available! Or: Today in the morning it came again in the ORF: “Traumatized people who have had to experience how soldiers and fighters in uniform have hunted, tortured and murdered people in barracks is a moral and health problem,” said the head of state of Carinthia. For him, therefore, it is not questionable to take barracks for it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Darmann.]] Or: in the Styria. When the Minister has accommodated refugees there, it has been said that this is an unacceptable process, one must first seek the approval of the communities. If we always have to get the approval of the communities first, I would like to know which mayor in Austria says: Yes, please, I'll take more and more refugees! [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] We already have to be honest with each other! And I don't think the greens are honest, I'm telling you. The competent state councillor in Tyrol says: “The problem lies here also with the high housing costs in Tirol. We find only a few private accommodations, which is much easier in Vienna or Burgenland". They're supposed to do this. - Yes, the others are supposed to do that. [[Abg. Wheeler: Eh clear!]] [[Abg. Steinhauser: She didn't say that!]] Yeah, she didn't say that, but that was intentional. [[Abg. Steinhauser: Then don't quote wrong!]] – If she says that this is much easier in Vienna and Burgenland, what does she want to say with it? – Do it because it is easier with you! [[Abg. Steinhauser: Because it's hard!]] [[Further calls to the Greens.]] Because you are rightly upset because you measure with two standards: If you are responsible, it is easier for others than for you to assume responsibility. The Minister, who takes responsibility, receives a motion of censure from you. That's your policy! Two-edged and double-bedded things don't work at all, I tell you! Or: in Salzburg. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Brosz: It's hard with your mayors, with your ÖVP mayors!]] What does the competent councillor Martina Berthold say in Salzburg? – “I do not find it constructive, as is now being done. Stiffing to 100 percent now is a measure of the federal states that is not constructive.” [[Abg. Brosz: It's very difficult with your mayors!]] Yes, what do you make agreements for? If we say, then what we have agreed, then the federal states will be taken into account!? – That’s what your councillor says about her own failure! See that when you're going to talk so full-bodiedly about me here! [[Calls of the Abg. Korun.]] What to Create Your councillors here? – I tell you: I think your approach is extremely unfair and unolidarian! We should try together to find solutions here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Brosz.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walser.]] I'll tell you another one: On the one hand, when it comes to the first shots, the Minister will carry out her duties. But with those, toward the Freedom Party, shame that colleague Belakovich-Jenewein is not in the hall right now. She meant today: There is no even statistics, Mrs Innenminister!, and asked: Where are the statistics on deportation figures? [[Abg. Steinhauser: The first recordings are overcrowded!]] I'm telling you, you just have to do what the greens did. The Greens have asked the Minister: ‘Request by Alev Korun, friends with regard to pushy, deportations, Dublin transfers’. The answer was most detailed, on 31 pages. [[The speaker shall keep a copy of the request response up to date.]] Do it, and you'll get the information! But I'm telling you because you asked this morning: In this year there were 4 167 outlands from January to April. Of these, 1,176 were compulsory, 2,991 were voluntary, of which 1,686 were voluntary and 1,300 were voluntary. So you get everything you want. The Minister for Legal Affairs is responsible for legal proceedings. And those who don't have a residence permit don't stay in the country either, to say that quite clearly. There are deportations. Not pleasant, but it is made. [[Abg. Darmann: other numbers!]] That is why I ask you, I ask you all: Austria has a tradition here, especially when it comes to refugees of war and when it comes to those who need our support. But if we are seriously interested in solutions here, we must not act as the Green Group does today. What you are doing here today is not a contribution to solving this great problem, which not only concerns us, which we can in reality never solve alone in Austria but only at European level. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Switzerland]] [[Abg. Steinhauser: don't bring anything together!]] I hope that your colleagues at European level are more constructive than you are here today, and I hope that your national councillors will be responsible for what they have not done to date, unlike the Minister, neither in Tyrol nor in Salzburg.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e18118	Next, Mrs Mag. Korun to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e18139	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Today, we have a request from the government groups SPÖ and ÖVP that the Federal Government should be committed at EU level to a common humanitarian asylum policy, in particular for decent, rapid and fair asylum procedures. This is quite a contradiction to what the Minister of the Interior said on 12 February. June the APA said – I quote –: "Of course, we will accept new applications and register new asylum seekers. But the procedures and therefore the family estate are stopped. Because we are now only treating back- and deportations in order to reduce our attractiveness as well.” – Quotes. So much to a solidarity and common asylum policy at EU level. Ladies and gentlemen! Imagine the building office saying: Pfoah, there have been so many construction applications recently, we simply can't do that anymore. We simply leave these construction applications to lie down, we will now concentrate on the rejection of the applications received or on the invalid declaration of approvals already granted, because there are simply too many applications. We're not going to work on them anymore, we're gonna leave them! – Hell would be loose, quite right! People who have submitted applications and have been allowed to expect an authority to deal with these applications in a state-of-the-art manner without unnecessary delay would say: Sorry! How can I get to it when the office says: There are just too many applications there, I leave them now!Unknown term type: "%s".? By the way, it would be a clear abuse of office, a head of the board who instructs her authorities and says: Now let's leave the applications a few months! And she also boldly says: I would like to put pressure on the other EU Ministers of the Interior. That is why we are simply building up an application backpack in the country – we have to pay it again, because these applications have to be processed, but that doesn't matter, I just do that. Then, of course, there was a great cry. There were lawyers who asked us: What does the Minister of the Interior now mean? That would be a smooth abuse of office! – And due to the massive criticism of human rights organisations, of greens, including NEOS, of many committed people, the woman's interior minister is a bit back the next day, said: No, no, it wasn't! “You have not given any instructions on the non-sun” (), she said the next day. ‘() at all, it was not an order to be given to officials in the event of a penalty, but only a ‘management manual’ without a warning character.’ Mrs. Federal Minister, I think we can all assume that you really need to know that you are not in the sandbox, but that you are the Minister of the Interior of the Republic of Austria and that you can't just say nothing to me, nothing to you a day: Oh, I'm overemphasized, I'm just leaving the requests, and I want to wipe out one at EU level! and the next day I say: No, no, it wasn’t meant to be, it wasn’t even a clue, it was “a management guide ”! Of course, they failed. They have failed with this attempt to announce official abuse, to announce white official abuse, to row back and to say that it was not meant to be. They claimed the opposite one day or two later and said: Well, now we're actually not working on anything but deportations and slides, so-called Dublin Falls. But then it was already meaty, because this constant back and forth – I said, I didn't say – is very unbelievable. Next construction site: ==References== APA announces: Mikl- Leitner allows pushing for Dublin cases. It has recently been decided here a law by the way, by the way, a government template from your home, a change to the so-called foreign police law and the asylum laws that carry your signature, but you have said: It's too late for me! And the entry into force of this innovation, which Parliament decided by a majority, with the votes of SPÖ and ÖVP, was simply too late for the Minister of the Interior. And then what does she do? – It makes an illegal regulation and says: I just prefer what I actually do with 1. It would enter into force on July. Oh, no problem, I'll just do it! [[The speaker shall keep a document up to date.]] This is in the way of the rule of law, which is why there are already decisions from the Federal Administrative Court of the Republic of Austria – I brought a copy – which is printed in bold and bold: “IN THE NAME OF THE REPUBLIC!” And then we go on with: ‘I. The complaint concerning the warrant is granted in accordance with () and this’, namely the warrant, which is based on this illegal regulation of the Federal Minister of Justice, ‘explains unlawfully’. Furthermore, ‘II. The complaint relating to the detention in Schubhaft is granted () and the retention () is declared unlawful.’ () It is found that, at the time of the decision, the conditions relevant for the continuation of the warranty do not exist.’ They have also failed on the whole to make an illegal regulation to the rule of law, the Minister of the Interior, namely: Oh, the law that Parliament has decided to bring into force too late! Now I prefer that a bit with a regulation! [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Can we get all the knowledge read out?! That's too little! Please, all this!]] And all this in addition to the inability that unfortunately led to these tents. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! They have been the Minister of the Interior of the Republic for over four years, and the Syrian War is a little longer. If not in the first year, then in the second year, if not in the second, then in the third year, if not in the third, then in the fourth year, you would have had to assume that the numbers of refugees will also rise with us. You're responsible for the first recording. Nothing was prepared. And then you set up tents and said: Alert, alert, now I have to set up tents! Your multiple attempts to strike the rule of law with feet once again show that you are highly overwhelmed and that you are unfortunately trying to cover this overload and this mismanagement with a breach of law and overthinking. That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulation with greens and NEOS.]] [[Abg. Prince: My God!]] Madam Minister of the Interior, please make room for someone who really takes the rule of law seriously and who really protects human rights before the rule of law, the seeker of protection and the Republic take even greater damage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e18236	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Korun is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e18335	Next speaker: Mr Kirchgatterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e18356	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! We are concerned with actual solutions, we are not about polemics. Of course, we will not support the motion of censure, although, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the good reputation of a state, of a country, can be lost very quickly, that the credibility, the predictability can easily be felt, that what generations have built up after 1945, can also be destroyed and destroyed in resistance to irration. It is therefore appropriate to be very careful in the choice of words, in the formulations of actions announced as intended in the space which will be put in short term. It shall be considered with reason and by agreement: What contributes to the solution or what creates new problems? – Tent cities are not a solution. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, Greens and NEOS.]] Good decisions are usually the result of joint deliberations and non-separable decisions. Dialogue and dialogue are needed. Our joint request, Agenda item 18, deals with solutions, real solutions. It is about saving the refugees, a common humanitarian asylum policy in all EU countries, a quota allocation of asylum seekers, an effective fight against trafficking in human beings, and cooperation with the Mediterranean countries, with the African countries. Ladies and gentlemen! To work on it, to work to get involved, it is worth working in the common interest, in the interest of Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e18395	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Schrangl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e18417	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Mr. State Secretary! My dear colleagues in the National Council, dear citizens at the gallery and at home! [[Abg. Hoefinger: There are two!]] – I said: Mrs Bundesminister. That's right. [[Abg. Hoefinger: There are two!]] - Sorry, I'm sorry. Thank you very much. Excuse me, God, Mrs. Federal Minister. So much courtesy must be. [[Abg. Good morning!]] The ÖVP held a Taferl in the morning. They also discovered the Taferl for themselves. I would be pleased if you would also show this Taferl in Brus-sel, the Austrian Taferl. It seems that your EU justice is not paying off in Brussels. If you now call on the EU to introduce quotas, I should like to point out that today's issue of "today" states that the EU is already rejecting its quotas from the outset. [[keeping a copy of the newspaper “Today” in height]] So keep the Taferl really high, although we also reject the quotas, but maybe it will be something then! The request – Keep the Taferl up! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lopatka.]] Let's see if you're bringing something together. - Very good, very good. [[Abg. Lopatka: The debate continues! Luxembourg is taking over the EU Presidency!]] The debate continues. I'll tell you something. We'll go down. The debate continues; the French too are already closing the border, the border with Italy. I'm not a friend of leaving the Italians in the rain. But we also need to see where we stay in Austria. We are elected representatives in Austria and are responsible for this country and its citizens. We cannot therefore see how all its borders are being closed around, and we hope for the EU quota. Because this is still on the side: Mr Bundesminister Kurz has discovered the family aid for himself. That was a request from the liberals, whose reply is not yet there, but the answer is probably already known in the ministry. The Federal Minister has probably said to my colleague, Mr Kurz: Be careful, something will come, perhaps we should ask for it, because it looks so good in the country elections that the FPÖ continues to win and the ÖVP always loses. Now you probably need to move a little bit. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] By the way: I am surprised that you are now implementing what the Freedom Party has been demanding for over five years. You've always accused us of running the hustle and bustle. – And exactly what we called for five years ago, you want to implement today. Now I wonder if you also call yourself “hetzerin. ” To say something about it: They've been doing what we've been demanding for five years. – That means you've been limping for five years. They should implement what we now call for, otherwise we will stand there in five years as well and implement what the liberals would have wanted to do for a long time. By the way, we're not the only ones. You know, you were there at the press conference in Linz yourself, where state captain Pühringer asked to close the borders. If you don't listen to us or at least just in the five-year cycle, so at five years late, then listen to your party colleague Pühringer and close the boundaries! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e18511	Next word: Mrs Dr Lintl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e18533	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Thanks to the extended action of FRONTEX, it is ever better to save more human lives in the Mediterranean, but it is important to announce the fight to the criminals. Desperate refugees, in their distress, turn to unscrupulous tow organizations and entrust their lives to them. If they are in danger of life, you have to do everything you can to save them and provide them, but then immediately bring them back to the North African coast. Europe must make it clear to all migrants that there is no longer an illegal path to Europe. UNHCR contact points in crisis areas should examine whether there is an asylum ground. If that is the case, the persecuted are welcome. The highly professional towing organizations now play a key role in the refugee dramas. They are merciless exploiters who expose people totally unprotected and disoriented. The maritime boats are partially reduced or abandoned by the so-called crews, and thus the people will leave their fate. These irrantious tugs are due to the death of thousands of refugees. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] For all the lost human lives, the criminal dimensions of the crime of towing in the Foreign Police Act are not determined almost in the right proportion. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e18599	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Mrs Lintl is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. [[Abg. Rädler: That was strong! Two appeals!]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e18667	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e18688	Dear Madam Minister of the Interior, today's discussion marks an end to a long failure of yours! You have rightly deserved this motion of censure from the Greens. There are situations in life that you can't do anything in its function, and you should recognize that and draw the consequences – and you're proven to be in such a situation! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Vavrik.]] Point 1 of your failure: the situation in Traiskirchen. – Not a green analysis, which I read now, but the analysis of the mayor of Traiskirchen, Andreas Babler, who speaks of complete overfill. There is no regulated care structure, no regulated day structure. He criticises fire police unsustainable conditions, adjusted escape routes, partially missing sanitation facilities, sanitaryly unsustainable conditions. And it means – that was, I believe, not Mayor Babler – on the other hand, that there are situations where refugees have to sleep on the ground. This is an unsustainable state in a country like ours, for which you inevitably bear the responsibility because Traiskirchen is a first place to take up and is subordinated to you as a Federal Minister. It also fits in with the fact that Mrs Korun, who wants to drive and visit the states there, is allowed to do so, but she cannot talk to a refugee, and she must not talk to any employee. - Why? What do you have to hide? If I'm going to a prison, Justice Minister Brandstetter won't call and say I can't talk to a prisoner and no staff. No, I'm going through, and if a prisoner wants to talk to me, he's allowed to talk to me, and every judicial guard is allowed to talk to me. In Traiskirchen, you forbid this, and I think you have a good reason: because you want to hide exactly these abuses. Furthermore, you don't want journalists there because you don't want the public to know what's wrong there. [[Abg. Rädler: That has always been the case!]] If this has always been the case, it is rather an indication that there has always been these abuses, Mr Rädler! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This intervention in free reporting is, kindly said, unacceptable and unusual – clearly said: We know this more from other countries! Point 2, and that is the essential point: They stage an exception state. On the morning – and I think this is exciting – Mrs Fekter lamented that a deportation that you obviously wanted to make for a journalist's appointment was ignored by the media. While you are of the opinion that the media should not report – supposedly – the refugees are not harassed in their privacy, you do not care about those who are to be postponed. Because you're politically staging! In addition, the statement of your party leader Mitterlehner, who literally spoke of a “violet migration” in the “ZiB 2”. – This is an immeasurable exaggeration. Yes, the situation is a challenge. More refugees are coming than in recent years, but there are not as many as ten years ago than the Afghanistan war, there are fewer than during the Yugoslavia crisis, and there are significantly less than during the Hungarian crisis or the Prague spring. This is clearly the attempt to frighten the population and to make political business with this fear. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kitzmüller: Take a look at the numbers!]] [[Further calls at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] I'll tell you something. The political business with fear will always make FPÖ better than you, and that will be the reason that you won't win anything but will prepare the ground for this party. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] – You are happy if you look only in their ranks. [[New calls at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Next point: the tents. – Another staging of you! The first recording points belong to the Federation, you are responsible for them. When you talk about the countries and point to the countries, then point to the mirror, because then you point to the ÖVP. The ÖVP has six heads of state, and it is in seven national governments. If you make serious accusations to the countries, it says nothing but that your party friends, who sit in seven national governments, have let you down for a long time and don't support it anymore! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Salzburg and Tyrol. – Be glad you have two committed Green Councillors! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Let me tell you the numbers; the Members have inherited a backpack of deficits from their predecessors. The colleague in Tyrol has made 3,000 out of 1,000 places within a year and a half. I'll tell you something. Without the two committed Green Councillors, the balance sheet of this Minister of the Interior would be much more disastrous. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If someone moves something – and that's it – then these are the two councillors of the country. You've been abandoning your Minister of the Interior for a long time, you haven't supported her for a long time! [[towards ÖVP]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] Next point: Who is the mayor party in Austria? – Whether we like it or not, it is the ÖVP. And who is on barricades when refugees are to be admitted to the communities? – They are the ÖVP mayors! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Brosz: The wheels and colleagues!]] It is the mayor of Bad Gastein an ÖVP mayor who is excited when MP Schellhorn wants to accommodate some refugees. It is the mayor of Horn – an ÖVP mayor – who is excited when a barracks is to be opened. It is the mayor of Vomp – an ÖVP mayor – who goes to the barricades. The Minister of the Interior does not even have a force of enforcement for the smallest officials and the mayors, who have already turned away for a long time, let them down. Zero force of enforcement! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But you must not do wrong to everyone, there are others too. There is an ÖVP mayor in Alberschwend in Vorarlberg, who says in a letter she sent publicly: "Our activities with asylum seekers have given us insight into the shortcomings of the European asylum system (Dublin Agreements). The Dublin Agreement is the agreement that this Minister of the Interior has always defended. [[pointing to Federal Minister Mikl- Leitner]] “We people at the base” – she continues – “seems to be more in terms of asylum policy than the unruly and, in this case, dishonest ‘high’ politics.” She means this Minister of the Interior with unruly and dishonest politics. [[Last but not least, showing on Federal Minister Mikl- Leitner]] She then writes: “We write in our accompanying manifesto quite conscious” – and now – “by civil obedience” – an ÖVP citizen master! – ‘because we are following the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights, in which we prevent national deportations that can lead to human rights violations’. That's what she means by this Minister of the Interior. [[Showing again on Federal Minister Mikl- Leitner]] And then we're going to go on: “For high politics, it will be time – at the highest time – to develop an asylum policy () without a squeezing for eternal thought.” She can mean this party or this Minister of the Interior. [[towards ÖVP]] [[Showing once again on Federal Minister Mikl- Leitner]] But one thing is clear: She summarized in three paragraphs that you failed! The last point of your failure is to stop all asylum procedures. I would really be interested – Mr Korun has already mentioned it – in what legal quality it has. If this is an instruction, then we have to consider whether this may be an abuse of office, if it is a management manual, then you have reinvented the federal constitution and then we hope your officials will ignore it. But the fact is that what's politically behind it is absurd. You don't know exactly. Their official justification was: We want to put pressure on the EU Ministers of the Interior. – They might have been scared! They explained a few days later that they didn't think of any quotas at all. It doesn't matter completely to them. If you want to send a signal to refugees, it's absurd. A person who buys that he risks his life on a journey to Italy and later to Austria cannot be deterred from a longer asylum procedure. You don't know what you want. You spread chaos, you have just failed, you lack any political force – and that's why you deserve this mistrust! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e18870	The next item is the report by Mr Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e18891	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! I believe that at the beginning there is something very important to say: that, on Mr Steinhauser's statement, the FPÖ could hear the business with the fear, the policy of fear, better understands than the ÖVP, cheerful applause and the approval of the FPÖ. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Schrangl: Not just that! It's all better!]] This is extremely intense if you are still happy that you can improve your business with fear. A second point: We shall vote in favour of the motion for a resolution by the Greens. I have already said today in the early days that I also believe that the Federal Minister should resign, and can therefore only follow this statement. Third point: Mr Kirchgatterer, you said that you presented solutions to this request. You know, I'm going to agree to the request because I'm already of the opinion that things are right – but solutions? If one asks for something to be done at European level, these are not concrete solutions. They also know, as we have already heard, that the proposal to introduce a quota at European level has already been rejected by the Council. Nevertheless, the proposals contained in the proposal are correct and of immense importance. We finally need to promote a common humanitarian asylum policy, which is quite clear, and the focus of the whole must be a fair distribution of refugees at European level, that is, an EU-wide quota system. What is also important is that we have a permanent and regular resettlement programme that allows refugees to enter the European Union legally. Then we could perhaps see such pictures as they were on the Turkish border last Sunday and were taken by the French press agency, where thousands of people tried to get to Turkey somehow, and on the one hand by Turkish soldiers, on the other side by IS fighters, where fathers threw their little sons and daughters through the barbed wire fence de facto, so that they could get over to the safe side where the Turkish soldiers went off with water-throwers on refugees. If we have a meaningful and permanent regular resettlement program, we could hopefully save ourselves such unbearable images once. [[Congratulation with NEOS and Greens.]] Whatever we need is a permanent and meaningful search and rescue mission. [[Call the ÖVP:FRONTEX!]] – It is true that FRONTEX has now expanded the field of action with the Triton mission, which is right, but it is still such that FRONTEX is a border protection agency and it is not its task to save refugees in distress. We clearly needed a "Mare Nostrum 2.0". We negotiated a request in committee – it was rejected. It would be useful if you could agree to this today and now, because this is a very essential point and we need it at European level. We need European solidarity, we need these quotas, we need a departure from the Dublin agreement, we need a departure from this move of refugees. Mr Klubobmann Lopatka, because you spoke of legal proceedings. - Yes, you're right, but I said it in the early morning: What should have happened in the early part of the day, namely the relocation of an Afghan to Bulgaria, although the deadline has already expired under the Dublin Agreement, is not a legal procedure! I can only be glad – I can only repeat it again – that there is civil society that is opposed to the crew of Austrian airlines, which is opposed to it. Fortunately, this young Afghan has now been released, because it is obvious that the time limit has been missed in the Ministry of the Interior, and in a legal procedure, if the time limit has been missed, it is simply not possible to move back. Of course, it is important that we continue to put pressure at European level on this quota regime to come. That's quite clear. We must stop this shift of responsibility, both in Austria and at European level, because it cannot continue. But we also need a long-term strategy. We know how the increase in refugee numbers is, I know, and we all know that this is a great challenge, and we also know because of the numbers that are floating around here that this increase will be even more massive in the next few years. That is, we clearly need a master plan at European level and also within Austria so that we can deal with this challenge. What we must not do is to lose sight of those whom we should help, namely those seeking protection. I do not think that emergency accommodation in the form of tents can be a permanent solution and is actually an expression for a country like Austria. [[Congratulation with NEOS and Greens.]] In any case, we need a long-term and sustainable strategy to address these challenges. Today, several NGOs have called for a national action plan on asylum to ensure that we develop meaningful strategies and solutions in the context of refugee flows. I think that's important. It is about how we house refugees in Austria, how we create sufficient financial resources, how we also carry out human increases in the BFA, because it is clearly necessary to increase human resources there, and it is also about how we can put in place meaningful integration measures. Accordingly, I now make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I think we need such a long-term strategy so that what is happening to us in Austria is hopefully never happening again.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e18976	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Scherak, which has just been approved, is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e19031	Next speaker: Mrs Dipl.-Kffr.Pfurtscheller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e19055	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear viewers in front of the screens! I have undertaken to bring a lot of materiality into this debate today, because I think that this very difficult subject, which is vital to so many people, should not be an emotional rhetoric here in the House, which probably does not bring us too much. We are used to the fact that many emotions come from the FPÖ, we have heard again today Mrs Belakovich-Jenewein, who really disqualified herself with her statements this morning, but which really shocked me a bit, was Mr Steinhauser. Mr Steinhauser, I just wouldn't have expected you to do that! First of all, I would like to say that we are talking about the FPÖ. That's about the last thing we'd ever think of, and I'm never alive personally at all. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In addition, you have put a few things in the room that do not vote so, and I would like to relativize. You said we received 90 000 refugees from Bosnia. – That’s right, but that was within five years. We have 70 000 asylum seekers in the house this year, and that is already a small difference whether they are five years or one year. And you have also criticized Mr Vice-Chancellor for talking about a migration of people. . I would just like to tell you that Mr. Schönborn, too, has put it in his mouth. I think that if 50 million people around the world are on their way and on the run, we can certainly talk about a migration of people. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinhauser.]] I don't think it's a negative thing, either, when you call it that. So I don't know where you have her problem. Overall, I am just sorry that you do not want to see us having a general government responsibility between the federal government, the states and the municipalities. [[Abg. Steinhauser: The problem is that you say... the responsibility not!]] That you are equally affected by the fact that your country councillors are equally affected, I told you this for the last time. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If you put a motion of censure here concerning our Lady Minister, then I must say that the Tyrolean Landtag or the opposition could also make a mistrust against Mrs Baur, because it has not yet succeeded in fulfilling the quota, although I must say that I appreciate the Christine Baur very much and also believe that in this relationship she thinks a little more reasonable than you. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm]] [[Abg. Amon: That is embarrassing for the Greens!]] She said the following in the “In the Center” program last Sunday – and this is now a literal quote. [[Mr Amon, Mr Tamandl and Mr Steinhauser's calls and counter-calls.]] She was asked by Mrs Thurnher whether the competences should be returned to the Federation. – Please hear You're over at the FPÖ once! “It is quite clear that we have put the whole thing in such a way that we all have to work together.” [[Cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz:... no spatial orientation!]] - No, I looked over there! [[the speaker points towards the most wide right-wing FPÖ mandatare]] I know where my people are, don't worry, Mr. Rosary. I can very well distinguish between FPÖ and ÖVP, excuse me! – Listening Now again! So she said the following: “It is quite clear that we have put the whole thing in such a way that we all have to work together.” [[Abg. Glavischig-Piesczek: You shout like that! Does that always have to be with the speakers?]] – I’m yelling because they’re yelling in like that, excuse me, otherwise I don’t understand my own word, Mrs. Glavischnig. – “If that finally stops us saying you’re guilty, you’re guilty, you’re guilty! but say how we deal with the subject, then we’ll bring it together.” [[Call:... my hearing back]] [[Abg. Darmann: That the ÖVP is always so loud!]] That's what Christine Baur says. I think that's what she said. It needs the union of the federal government, communities and countries, and the Minister of the Interior is simply dependent on help, because the Minister of the Interior – excuse me if I say so now – is not disrespectful in the matter a lot of a queen without a empire, because she simply has no apartments available, she has no accommodation available. [[Abg. Moser: But she has...!]] It depends on the communities and the countries which make it available to it. Since you are always so excited about the tent cities – I told you the last time, I say it again now –: The tent cities had to be built only because the countries did not take over their share of people because the countries did not take the asylum seekers into basic care after the first establishment. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Korun.]] That's why Traiskirchen is so full, Mrs. Korun, and therefore tent cities had to be set up. [[New call of the abg. Korun.]] We're not happy either, so certainly not! Do you think the woman minister has a Gaudi when she has to set up tent cities?- Oh, my God! – So I mean, that’s absurd to put something like that! It's almost a freaky thing. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Maurer.]] I would also like to address Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig again and also the colleague Holzinger, who is now, I believe, no longer here, who has posted on Facebook today. She has also excited herself about the tent cities and has written: “No to Mikl-Leiters asylumist!” – No, no, the woman Holzinger! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig.]] They complained about the tent cities. To this end, I would like to say the following: I would like to remind you – with all due respect and understanding – and I really do not want to be disrespectful now: You also belong to our coalition, you are also responsible for it. [[Abg. Deimek: Who else?- Oh, my God!]] For example, you have a Linz mayor Luger, who still does not want to dedicate and not open the barracks. You have a state captain, Niessl, who bought two barracks so he doesn't have to let asylumers in. That is why I am actually very pleased with their Chancellor Faymann, who obviously sees this a little different from the Members. He wants to get involved now, he wants to help find a solution here. And I am also looking forward to the other SPÖ ministers taking care of this, because, for example, in the field of integration and education, the Minister of Education is certainly also in demand. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: And integration!]] – Of course they do. I say yes: collected, I say yes: Merger. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pendl.]] I know! You won't believe we're not self-critical. I am sure that only in this debate will we have to listen all day to what the Minister of the Interior is doing wrong and what our mayors seem to be not doing. But there is no one talking about what the others are doing, and I am now taking it out, Mr Pendl. I think that's easy for me now. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Schrangl: I said the woman Minister of the Interior...!]] Again: Overall, I would like to call on all of you once again to make a national shoulder closure, to be reasonable, to try to discuss the matter objectively, that everyone makes his contribution and that people should be given the following: We do not have a crisis here, but we have a challenge that needs to be solved and we can all solve each other! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e19318	Next, Mr Buchmayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e19340	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! High house! The resolution of the Human Rights Committee on human rights at EU borders. The figures are known: In 2014, 626 000 asylum applications were submitted in the EU, with an increasing trend. As we have heard, 90 percent of all asylum applications from ten EU countries are processed, including Austria. A problem of this dimension can certainly not be solved nationally, but there is an eerie hypocrisy in the discussion. Realistically, the consequences of the war conflicts and the breakdown of Syria and Libya in which the EU has watched are dramatic. Refugee flows will not tear off for a long time. To be honest, then, it would be to tell people that Europe cannot help but control refugee flows and accept the problems of refugees. But what is happening in Austria right now? – Instead of making responsible politics, it is played with the resentments and fears of the aliens. It is said that Christian-social politicians give in to the right-wing populist pressure and lose their principles. Freedom policy is becoming a common good – I do not hear any condolences – i.e. politics of a party whose FPÖ-Landstraße on its homepage on the topic of alienation calls for the return of all legally resident foreigners in Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schönegger]] [[Abg. Schrangl: Freedom?- Oh, my God!]] Asylum is to be granted only to more nationals of the countries adjacent to Austria and the crowning countries of the former Habsburg monarchy, i.e. right-wing populism in pure culture, in order to create cheap capital from it, rather than prudent policies, which also think there is something like human rights conventions. Mr Strache – in the absence of –, leaders of the FPÖ, a request: [[Abg. Schrangl: He says asylum must be granted!]] Bring your party to the 21st. In the 19th century, in order to make a human rights-compliant policy possible and to discuss again here in Austria. [[Abg. Darmann: Who wrote the speech?]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e19433	Now the Federal Minister Mag has taken his stand. Mikl's head of speech reported. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e19455	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Dear ladies and gentlemen in front of the screens! Let me start by holding something, and I believe that we are all here in the hall of an opinion: The right to asylum is a human right. I hope that we all agree on this and have a consensus here. We all know that the migration flows, which also come to Europe, are challenging at present and probably also in the coming months. You all know, this is not new, but you also know that last year I have said not only once, but often: We'll have a problem. We need quarters, quarters, quarters. At the time you directed me that this was a political staging, yes, some even meant that it was a summer theatre. – You can read all these quotes in the media, you can always read them in various newspaper articles. But hopefully everyone has realized, and everyone knows that this was not a summer theatre, but that it was already a warning of the problem – a problem that we are facing today. Thank God, our experts – the experts of my house – did not let these calls get away with them, but they continued to work consistently. While others have put their heads in the sand during the last year, we have prepared some measures in the interior resort and also decided to take in the ministry. I can start with a very important and central measure, with the change in basic supply. After ten years we started basic care and said: How it has worked in the past, so we don't want to go on! We need a new system so that this painful discussion of distribution and non-fulfilment of quotas can finally end! This automation should lead to a fair, just distribution of refugees throughout Austria, and this automation should above all also lead to the fact that Traiskirchen and Thalham are no longer buffers for the entire Republic in the future. With this automation we solve this problem of unfair distribution. This brings in justice, so that it is guaranteed that in fact all the federal states fulfil their 100 percent quota. But it is also true that with this automation, with this new basic provision, we do not solve the housing problem. Therefore, I am also pleased that there is now also a very clear signal to this challenge, an shoulder closure in Austria under the leadership of Federal Chancellor Faymann. Right, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen, we also need a pan-European approach on this issue that we need an answer from Europe. And also in this regard, ladies and gentlemen, the Austrian Ministry of the Interior a year ago has made a very decisive start with our concept, with our project "Save Lives". This advance and this proposal is also the reason why we are discussing a quota at European level today. We can also take note of this, ladies and gentlemen, with self-confidence. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] With such proposals, we are shaping Europe! And that is important, because if we do not shape Europe and ensure stability, then we only strengthen the nationalists. We all know that the greatest enemy of the nationalists is stability, and we do not create stability by putting our heads in the sand, or just waiting, as some have done during the year, for such things to be achieved only by taking concrete measures. Yes, in the last few weeks many things have gone very quickly, and I understand that if it has perhaps gone too fast for one or another, we have to make decisions in difficult situations – to make decisions when they are necessary not only to make decisions when they are finally right. Let me also say something to the tents, because this has often been addressed today: It does not deny a certain irony if you present a motion for distrust on the part of the Greens today because of the tents that had to be set up, among other things, because also the Green Councillors do not comply with the creation of quarters. [[Abg. Amon: (in the direction of green) Last-class! Last class!]] And I'll tell you openly and honestly, too. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinhauser.]] [[Call: Shame yourself]] I do not blame them at all, because we all have this challenge to solve together in a close-up between the federal, state and local authorities! [[Abg. Steinhauser: We have handled them and not you!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And I know the Floriani principle only too well. I just wanted to say that so that we all finally know what we're talking about. [[Abg. Steinhauser: Mayor!]] [[Abg. Kogler: The Mayor Party!]] In this sense, I am also convinced that, with good will, if we all take one line, we will also face this challenge. That's why I'm asking you and I'm looking for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e19602	Next, Mr Magistrate. Of course. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e19623	Mr President. My dear ladies Federal Ministers! Mr State Secretary! Mrs Innenminister, thank you very much for this very objective presentation. I think this is very important at this point, because I have rarely heard such an inaccurate debate on this acute and important subject of asylum as it is today. This was from false claims – for example, asylum proceedings would be initiated – on the one hand, to the proposals to close the borders or send out screaming asylum seekers in Hercules machines. That's unbearable! A mixture of different areas of problem certainly does not contribute to an objective debate. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I believe that we must find a culture of discussion and, above all, solutions between the statements of the left-wing dreamers and the right-hand hetzers on the one hand. [[Abg. Schrangl: Stop with the “right hetzer”! You're doing it yourself now!]] That's important! I find it all the more welcome, if there are also media that accept this complex topic and explain many false numbers and stories that are coursed in social media as false and also some misunderstandings. This hustle and bustle, the division of the population, is certainly not suitable to solve the problems we have. And then the game of the Greens comes with the confidence: The Minister responsible to express distrust, but at the same time to leave the national councils responsible for this, that is only the change of political small money. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And even in the countries where green country councillors are responsible for asylum, the search for quarters is no easier than in all other federal states. Perhaps you could also ask your own people internally, why can't quarters be made available anymore. It's just like this: We don't have a tenth federal country, where all of us who come can simply fly. In addition, there are still populist proposals by the Minister of Defence, who would like to use the tense situation to drive the castle closures forward. And because the mayor of Horn was also addressed here: It has provided places for asylum seekers in a former home to prevent exactly that. What we need, ladies and gentlemen, is a national closure to support our Minister of the Interior in the fight for a meaningful solution at European level, because only at the pan-European level can we find solutions to these major challenges that we are facing now. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Korun]] We need a quota solution, we need a proper resettlement programme, as it has already been mentioned. However, we cannot enforce this on our own, because we cannot start alone, since we must work together with the other Member States to do so. Of course, it will be difficult to convince States not so far affected by such refugee flows of such a solution, but I tell you there will be no other solution. For us, it must be our top priority, as requested in this resolution, to continue to work consistently at EU level for a common human asylum policy and for the implementation of the common European asylum system. In particular, I would like to mention the “Save Lives” programme already mentioned, which was initiated by Austria. As is evident on behalf, it is about saving people through building up contact points in the countries from which they come, because it is important to offer people a legal way to Europe. Only by this can inhuman and brutal operating towing tires be stopped. These criminals would be superfluous because they were deprived of the business base. Ladies and gentlemen, our interior minister Johanna Mikl-Leiter is not only on the road since yesterday to implement the resettlement programme and a quota solution with other countries, such as Italy, the “Save Lives” project. It therefore deserves our trust and our full support so that we can implement a common human asylum system across Europe.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e19682	Next, Mrs Yılmaz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e19700	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! High house! In view of the fact that the EU's internal ministers were still far away from a European solution and solidarity yesterday, I find the request of Mr Pfurtscheller and Mr Kirchgatterer all the more important – an important sign of the Austrian Parliament to continue to insist on a very, very important signal. I was particularly pleased that our Federal Chancellor made this the chief thing yesterday. There have been many inconsistencies, there have been many efforts, communication errors, and again and again suffer people who are on the run. And I hope to make a really quick decision on the basis of this asylum summit, or whatever you want to call it. And it is especially to be mentioned: not only that the members of the Federal Government sit together, support the Minister of the Interior and break their heads together, but they will also cooperate with the NGOs. This is, in my view, a very, very good approach, and we will hopefully find a good and acceptable solution in the sense of our reputation, in the sense of the people who are on the run. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e19730	The next item is Mr Eßl's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e19754	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Steinhauser, one thing is clear to me like spring water: Not the Minister of the Interior has failed, but the green policy has failed! And you will fail again today with your request! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We, ladies and gentlemen, have the happiness of living in a country in which peace exists, and that is why we should also help – and we will and we want to help! The Minister for the Interior is intensive, although the matter of the country is to find quarters for the refugees, for refugees who have arrived in Austria. But we also know that the inflow is hardly yet to be overcome. If more than a thousand refugees are added in the week, this is a great challenge. I also support, in principle, the concern to accommodate refugees in barracks, but my opinion is, in empty barracks! And I mean, for example, that the Minister of Defense should open the Kaserne Ebelsberg in Linz, which is empty. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] The method: Soldiers out, refugees in, as it's meant for Tamsweg and Horn, I firmly refuse! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] I also say clearly and clearly that there are limits. If 90 percent of refugees in ten Member States of the European Union – Austria is at the forefront – then there must be European solidarity, I say. I therefore support the Minister for the Interior in her call for a quota system and for a uniform distribution within Europe. More importantly, ladies and gentlemen, It would have to use aid in the countries of origin outside Europe. “Save Lives” means the project that has been thought of by Ms. Mikl-Leiter, Minister of the Interior, and has now received attention throughout Europe. It is also about fighting the tow organisations that risk human life with criminal methods. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, there is another clarification: Not all asylum seekers who land in Austria can also stay in Austria. On average, six out of ten asylum applications are rejected. Just yesterday, 22 asylum seekers were sent back to their home country. At the beginning of the year, it was over a thousand Kosovars, and a total of more than 4,000 people have been sent back this year because they have been qualified as economic refugees. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] We do not have to support those who think they are going somewhere for economic reasons, but we want to help those who are persecuted in their lives, so we also support our wife's Minister of the Interior. A clear no to the green project and full support to our Minister!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e19830	Mr Keck spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e19854	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Eßl said in his speech that the Kaserne Ebelsberg was empty, that it was possible to accommodate refugees there. It is true that the Kaserne Ebelsberg is not empty, but is still in the operation of the Austrian federal army, and there cannot be any refugees there, for the Linz mayor would be penalised if he agreed to it, because that does not correspond to the plan of land use.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e19905	Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e19926	Mr President. Estimated ministers! Mr State Secretary! I also support the request made by Mr Kirchgatterer and Mr Pfurtscheller that humanitarian refugee policy at European level be continued, that there should also be a fair division in Europe. I wish the Minister a great deal of negotiation and happiness in this context, because I think it is an important initiative to introduce a quota across Europe. And I also support the fact that we are continuing to force measures against tow straps, because it is actually the case that tow tires contribute a lot to the harm of people – that is, a very sensible request that can only be supported. Estimated Ladies and gentlemen, the challenges in asylum policy or even in the so-called foreign debate are very, very big. I understand the concerns and fears of the Austrians as well. Many of us travel in the communities every day and talk to the citizens, see also the many postings on Facebook, which sometimes make me very concerned. I appeal to all those who want to say something else: Do it, post the truth so that these fake postings do not make up the majority on Facebook, because they actually only spread witches! I don't think any of us want any of this kind of shit to be so widespread in us. I do that, I always post the truth. That's not always easy, but it's the only right way to stop, I'm really convinced of that. Nor do I think – and I have already said this in the morning – that the measures put forward by Mrs Minister, such as tent cities or the reticulence of Dublin cases or the suspension of asylum proceedings can actually help. I really don't believe it, Mrs Minister, but I'm not so blue-eyed to think you can do it alone. That is why I am really convinced that this requires a general political responsibility. We need a common responsibility from countries, federal and local authorities and we finally need to do so across party borders. But if you've heard today's speeches – this morning and even now – you can only say that we're really far away from them. There is a grumbling about green country councillors, there is blaming about black mayors, there is discussion about barracks sites – people don't care, people need help, and we're all called on to find places together! Mr. Otto Pendl has said it so often: We have about 2,200 communities. And if a few people were admitted to each community, we wouldn't have this distribution problem in Austria. I am sure that this would also be better for the integration of these people, because there are many, many dedicated NGOs on the ground. There are many dedicated institutions, private individuals dealing with asylum seekers and As regards asylum seekers, they are actually on their way to integration. I am also very glad that the Federal Chancellor will now accompany this issue and find solutions together with the NGOs, because I am really convinced that it is quite, very important that we find a comprehensive Austrian solution that takes place across the party borders, because the problem or the challenge, as Mr Pfurtscheller said, will not be reduced, and we are indeed called for together.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e19978	The next speaker is Mrs Gessl-Ranftl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e19999	Mr President. Appreciate members of the government! High house! Since only 2 minutes of speaking time are available to me now, I will briefly address the SPÖ/ÖVP proposal. Asylum, as Mrs Minister mentioned earlier in her speech, is a human right. Asylum is not a grace, and everyone and everyone has the right to seek and enjoy asylum in other countries before persecution. The aim of asylum policy must be to achieve a single humanitarian asylum and refugee policy in the EU and to ensure fair distribution of refugees. It cannot be that Sweden, Germany and Austria take up about half of the refugees, while other EU countries evade their responsibilities. The fact is – and we all know that – that the wars, and hence the flows of refugees, will not come to an end as quickly as possible, and we are therefore all required to develop a national action plan, long-term and sustainable strategies. A quota within the EU is a question of fairness and humanity, and it certainly does not go by. Only with fair reception conditions for all states can human rights be guaranteed. In addition to an EU-wide quota system, there is also a need for a massive fight against the towbands that make billions due to the need for refugees. Unfortunately, there is currently far too little movement in the common refugee policy. Everyone is talking about solidarity over and over again, but only a few countries are actually responsible for refugee policy. I am glad and very pleased that Chancellor Faymann has called for a joint effort by government and countries to address the asylum problem. Everyone needs to get together, everyone has to move on to one strand, it needs to be worked on in the long term and sustainable. It will be a hard and rocky path, but with joint efforts by the federal, state and local authorities, this great challenge will be met. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Darmann.]] Now to the FPÖ: We won't find a way with fear-making, hetze and polemics!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e20054	The next item is Mrs Bayr's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e20076	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! A request, as we are discussing it today, on the legal situation of asylum seekers at EU borders can only be discussed – I think – with good conscience and pure heart if you have absolutely nothing to blame for yourself on this issue. I have to say that on Friday last week, I was really shocked that an Austrian Interior Minister is thinking publicly and, as a matter of fact, only thinking about appointing her officials, not working out new asylum applications or doing family mergers. At the same time, in the request today, we are absolutely right to demand that humane, rapid and fair asylum procedures be carried out abroad. I really find it objectionable to think at the expense of refugees to think about it, so that pressure can be exerted on other EU countries, that they can deal differently with their procedures. I believe that this will not impress any other member country, it only hurts the people who are sitting here for a long time without clarity about their asylum status, and does not help anyone at all. Since it has not yet been addressed in the current discussion and I do not want to make a murderer's pit from my heart: I find it really unbearable that we have over 1,000 unaccompanied children and young people in Traiskirchen without access to school, without care, without adequate care, without treatment. It is an unworthy game that the Federal Government and the Länder have so far shifted their responsibilities and no one really cares about these more than 1,000 children and young people adequately. I think we must urgently do something for these unaccompanied children and young people. We urgently need to take measures that on the back of these traumatized kids no further policy can be made! [[Conspicuousness with SPÖ and greens as well as with the Abg. Scherak.]] I believe that it is really necessary for us to fulfil our duty and, as international law tells us, to give people in due time clarity as to whether they have a positive asylum notice to expect or not. I believe that we should take this request, which deals with the situation of people at the borders of the EU, to really reflect on our culture in principle, not only here in the house, but in general, how we deal with people who – not all, that is right, but many of them – have experienced the worst of what one can experience, namely to be so pressured to leave one's home. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e20124	The next item is the speech by Mr Huainigg. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e20145	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! 300 asylum applications per day are a major challenge for Austria and a very difficult and dramatic situation. I understand the procedure of Mrs Minister that she says that some applications should be dealt with as a matter of priority, that not all new applications can be processed at the same time, and that there is also a need for tent cities to ensure initial provision. But, of course, there is a need for a national closure of communities and countries, otherwise we will not be able to deal with this problem. Europe needs to fight the tractors who are dealing with the suffering and misery of people, and it must also ensure fair distribution in Europe. But each individual should take his or her own nose, everyone can help in his or her own field. For example, if there are many minor refugees in Traiskirchen, there is the possibility of taking over sponsorships for minor refugees, and there is the project “connecting people”, where you can help underage refugees to know our culture or become better in the German language and to learn it more easily. There is another issue in the Committee, namely the implementation of the UN Convention on the Rights of People with Disabilities. I would like to welcome what Mrs Bundesminister Mikl-Leiter is doing in the Ministry of the Interior, because she has texts, information sheets and brochures translated into easily understood language. This is an important concern and objective of the UN Convention on the Rights of People with Disabilities, that people with intellectual difficulties also have access to information. I would therefore like to thank you very much for this initiative. Finally, I would like to say that in both cases – refugee issues and disability issues – it is about human dignity. And human dignity should be truly urgently enshrined in the Austrian constitution, as is the case in Germany, because human dignity is indivisible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e20185	The next item is the speech by Mr Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e20206	Mr President. Estimated Federal Ministers! Mr State Secretary! First of all, the “Schelte” by Clubobmann Lopatka on statistics and questions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lopatka.]] The Federal Minister was asked in a urgent question, points 16 and 17 by the FPÖ on 21 January. May 2015 asked: “How many asylum seekers were recognised by the asylum status or status of the subsidiary protected person in 2014?” And 17: “How many of these did Austria prove to have left again?” Answer to questions 16 and 17: “Similar statistics are not available.” Or item 18 and 19 of the question: “How many asylum seekers were recognised by the asylum status or status of the subsidiary protected person in 2013?” And 19: “How many of these did Austria prove to have left again? ” Answer to question 18: ‘In 2013, a total of 488 withdrawal procedures were initiated. Of these, 381 were legally applicable in first or second instance.” On question 19: How many left Austria? – ‘Similar statistics are not conducted.’ So much about what the FPÖ asks for, wants to know, and then gets no answers. The Greens get answers, and we don't get any, that's how it is. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But now on a fundamental point in this debate, it has already been liked so that the terms are also clear: Yes, asylum is a human right, economic flight is not. – This is a clear, free position. Mrs Korun complained that there was no information in Traiskirchen that one could not talk to refugees and not employees and so on. I also visited with a liberal group of Traiskirchen. We were kindly received, we were given all the information we wanted to know from the officials, all the statistical material they had there, and we were asked to keep the privacy of the refugees who are there. One thing we reject is this Green Voyeurism to do with the fate of people in some form of political change. [[We welcome the FPÖ and Mr Prinz and Mr Hagen.]] Just put on a red-cross jacket, go to Southern Italy and then look over the sea and say: Yes, we personally take a picture of it!, we reject it. [[Abg. Kogler: Get together!]] But one thing is interesting in Traiskirchen: 1,500 people who are there are proven to be those who already need to be in the care of the federal states – all of them, whether they are green councils, black councils or red councils. - 1,500! [[Abg. Krainer: After hello!]] And then you complain – like Mayor Babler – about things you need to know better in itself. As we have learned, he himself regularly sits at all the safety meetings in Traiskirchen, and outside he tells completely wrong things. – You should write that to your party mate in the main book! For excitement about tent cities: It is certainly not positive that there are tent cities, but sometimes it is inevitable. And when people have just got away with their naked life and may not be different, perhaps it is reasonable for these people to have a tent roof over their heads in such a way that they are provided with food, clothing and at least have a tent roof. On the other hand, there is no special excitement about the construction of tent cities in the face of natural disasters. Or if, for example, Austrian students need to be taught in containers, the human rightsists or others are not necessarily involved, as there seem to be other criteria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] For me, one thing is remarkable: Austria respects and respects human rights, I have heard. - That's good. But apparently there are countries that do not, and they are even with us in this European community of values EU. – Yes, what is that written or what is it for a state of affairs in the EU, that the Minister of the State even – well, the rule of the law – says: Yes, we have decided that we are now making shorter procedures, but in order to put pressure on the EU, we are not carrying them out at all now! So we can already talk about it, but that is not the point of view of the EU's desire to move us absolutely to the black Peter. If I have finally heard the jubilation messages from the Social Democracy that Chancellor Faymann has now declared the asylum case the chief thing, then I must regard this as a dangerous threat at Federal Chancellor and Party Chairperson Faymann in the face of the chief case SPÖ.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e20286	The next item is the speech by Mr Amon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e20307	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! There is today a request concerning the failure of confidence towards the Federal Minister for the Interior of the Greens. I would like to tell you with all the clarity: I really think it's last-class! [[Abg. Brosz: Not so state-bearing!]] I really think it's last-class! [[Abg. Kogler: To bumstinazi!]] You are doing the business of the Freedom Party, I congratulate you very much. [[Rejoicing at the FPÖ]] [[Calls for Greens and FPÖ.]] I'd like to tell you: If I look at your request – and I take care of such requests very carefully – and read here: “The topic of asylum has always been dealt with by Minister of the Interior Mikl- Leitner under the guise of defence policy,” I do not fully understand, as this is usually the task of the Minister of Defence. [[Call:It would be fundamental]] “This is obvious from the annual intensifications of asylum law, the further erodement of legal means in asylum procedures, and the link between the debate on asylum and irregular migration, tow and alleged abuse – including the Minister of the Interior.” I have to say that you simply and simply have never listened to the Minister of the Interior in all her opinions in recent years, because it is precisely this Minister of the Interior who in an exceptionally differentiated way always keeps apart: [[Call the FPÖ:Unfortunately!]] What is asylum? What is illegal migration? What are economic refugees and the like? It was not until this morning that it held back – as was done by a political group – that it was not able to mix unemployment with asylum. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Has the EU made itself!]] This is a process which is not actually for the Greens, I really want to say. I don't understand. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And then write on in your request, I quote: "Although the Civil War has been raging in Syria for over four years and thus a stronger movement of refugees to Europe has been predictable, the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs Mikl- Leitner has so far not taken appropriate measures to ensure suitable accommodation when asylum applications are increased." They assume, as it were, that the Federal Minister should have developed light-seeking skills to see what waves are coming on us. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Korun]] [[Calls to the Greens.]] At the same time, however, your own competent green councils are free to say that they do not have these Hellenic abilities. [[New calls to the Greens.]] That is unfortunate, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I'm really sorry about that. [[Abg. Wöginger: Where are the green councils?]] Well, nice what you thought of our Federal Minister and that you were sure from the outset that your state councils did not see this coming. Mein Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, if you look at this development that has taken place over the past few months, and if you see the problems we have everywhere, in all European states, that ten states handle 90 percent of all asylum applications – ten states are covering 90 percent of all asylum applications! – if you look at it: That was simple in the dimension and simply not predictable. That was not predictable! This Federal Minister and this Federal Government as a whole, now also the Federal Chancellor, are fighting for us to deal with this problem, that we are taking proper action. And what are you doing with the liberals? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] What are the greens doing together with the liberals? They change cheap political change on the back of the poorest of the poor. That's what you do! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[New calls to the Greens.]] This is even so far that it is no longer necessary for the clubman to be present to the liberals, because the greens' club is doing its business anyway, ladies and gentlemen. This is the fact, and this is very disappointing, I would like to tell you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That is why it is true what the Federal Minister has proposed. Of course, this is a laborious process at the European level, if the game is 10 against 18 others to prevail here, to enforce a quota in connection with the “Save Lives” project, with the new restitution policy proposed by the Federal Minister at the European level. It's right to say: Let us create contact points outside of Europe! Let us first examine whether there is an opportunity for an asylum application or if there are other immigration considerations! These are correct proposals, but of course they also need a commitment at European level. And it is not the European institutions that oppose it. No, the Commission supports this, the European Parliament supports it. It is the nation-states who want to resist it, because those 18 of the 28 who are not as affected as the ten first row of people refuse and watch each other struggle with this problem. And it is more than unfortunate that the Greens and the Freemans are supporting it. This is a strange alliance, I would like to tell you clearly that I find this more than disappointing. That is why, and because of all the measures put forward by the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, we can, with good conviction, reject this motion of censure – quite naturally, ladies and gentlemen. It is last-class that you make such a request in this difficult situation, but are unable to make self-proposals. [[Abg. Steinhauser: Who stopped the asylum proceedings? Who gave the illegal instruction?]] I would have expected that from you, ladies and gentlemen. I would have expected you to put forward a proposal on shifts of competence. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Korun.]] It is not the fault of the Federal Minister that the countries do not fulfil the quotas, Mrs Korun! Where is your proposal that we make a shift of competence in favour of the Federal Minister? - Nothing came from you. [[Further calls to the Greens.]] It is only in agreement with the countries and with the municipalities. That's why we should ring and not change cheap little money here!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e20511	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Darmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e20532	Mr President. Values Women Federal Ministers! Mr State Secretary! High house! If you follow the debate here on this subject, you have to say, ladies and gentlemen, you just didn't understand. It is not the question of who is doing the business of the FPÖ – we already know what we have to do if we are here for the people and are making policy here in the sense of Austrian security, but it is a question of showing clear awareness of the problem, both in the Austrian Federal Ministries, in the relevant government offices and here in the High House, where it is said that the representatives of these Austrian people are sitting, who have vowed an oath here to work accordingly for our people. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] You have forgotten this fundamentally in this debate, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If you follow you this way, you mean being here in a parallel parliament. There's no one talking about Austrian interests here anymore. From our citizens across Austria, into the smallest community, and their concerns no one speaks here! We have appropriate legal bases to which Austria also adheres. We have never doubted that there is a human right to asylum. But if in recent years – with “we” I mean your federal government from SPÖ and ÖVP under Chancellor Faymann – if this government has failed to bring economic refugees outside of the country in accordance with these legal bases, and thousands and thousands of thousands have remained here and have exhausted the resources and have continued to eat up the resources that would be made available to the really alyl-seeking people, then it is no wonder that the Austrian population is overshadowed. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] Talk to your own mayors from SPÖ and ÖVP mayors! Talking to the population quickly makes it clear that there is zero understanding that, because of the lack of courage in Brussels, Strasbourg, in the ministries in Vienna, the local governments have to pay the bill and bear the whole burden. And here, ladies and gentlemen, I wonder what you want to get out of here and say: ‘Library migration’ is the wrong concept. Those Freemans are horrifying. It seems to be just a problem of designation. Is it a tent? Is it an asylum home? Ladies and gentlemen, problem awareness is needed! And a flow of refugees is something other than a migration of people. And if the whole continent is moving Africa and moving towards Europe, then we also have to react differently, ladies and gentlemen, then there are other appropriate measures to be taken here, and then it will not help if the European Union agrees to take warships, naval crossing the Mediterranean Sea, refugees, foreigners on the high seas, get on board, and then bring them to the European Union. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] That's the wrong way! If, then, it is necessary to make appropriate applications to the African continent, to examine them accordingly and then to choose the security and protection that it really deserves – but not to let them all into the European Union, for millions and millions of millions will be this European Union, citizens in the individual national states with their social system, with their health system, will not be able to help with all their will, ladies and gentlemen! [[Accompaniment with the FPÖ and the Abg. Lintl.]] This openness to this problem, which has arisen, should be expected from each one of us – and not from the point of view of beauty, from the point of view of the way, from a politician of another family, who dares to mention here the problems by name, which one or the other citizen, I claim, the majority of the Austrian population, speaks from the heart. This is all about: developing solutions here, building on problem-consciousness, and not defining the problems in the first place, thereby also constructing false solutions, as I claim, and, finally, continuing to produce asylum chaos, as it has been for years and will also happen in the future with these approaches. Ladies and gentlemen! Solution approaches look different, and that is why I think I am sorry, Mr President. – political superiority, to look beyond the needs and feelings of the Austrian population and simply to think that we will solve this with a quota in Austria. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] Yes, a quota of what? Have you ever wondered? You have not defined any number from which you assume what quota is to be fulfilled here! Of course, the individual federal states, the municipalities and, as you have defined today, the districts will always be behind them and the 100 percent quota will not be fulfilled because thousands and thousands of new foreigners come to Austria again, who think they can swim here in milk and honey, most of which are economic refugees. [[Abg. Schwentner: Finally stop with this!]] If the Greens, as now, show an excitement again, then it is self-containing, Mrs Colleague. Have you already provided more and more asylum seekers in your community and your surroundings? I do not think, ladies and gentlemen, because you know very well that this and this access to our population in Austria is no longer reasonable. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e20608	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Korun. - Please. [[Ongoing calls and calls between Green MEPs and ÖVPs.]] - Calm down, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e20635	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear guests at the gallery and citizens who watch and listen to us! Two days ago, a rally was in front of the Ministry of the Interior, because in the first place at Traiskirchen, more than 1,200 – at least we don't know the exact number, maybe the Minister of the Interior as the head of this first reception – over 1,200 minors, i.e. children and young people without parents, are accommodated. Among other things, there was a 17-year-old Syrian, a 17-year-old refugee. Before he started to talk, I noticed that he was missing several fingers in one hand, and he told me that he was caught by the terrorist militia IS smoking. That's why this terrorist militia hacked off three fingers. And now he's a refugee in Austria. We're talking about people like that here. It has been said by almost all political groups that asylum is a human right. It would be nice if we could agree on that. Only this one sentence “Asyl is a human right” usually follows the same claim of so-called abuse. [[Abg. Darmann: This is reality, abuse!]] Now imagine that it would be said that it is a right of all Austrians to work, and in the second sentence it will always be shot, but unfortunately many abuse this right. How would you feel about it? Is it not always half a withdrawal of what was said in the first sentence, where one supposedly acknowledges and admits that there is a human right to protection from persecution? [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Not everything that limps is a comparison!]] Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! The many words from your group show that there is obviously a lot to defend on your part. Yes, it is about shared responsibility, it is about joint responsibility-taking between all political levels, between the federal level, the federal states, the municipalities, the cities. Yes, you're right! But we also have an existing constitution, and we also have a division of work between the political levels. They know as well as we do that the first reception of protection-seeking people of the Minister for the Interior is the implementation of the asylum procedure. [[Abg. Steinhauser: And the asylum procedure!]] You know for yourself that Traiskirchen' first recording site has been more than full for a long time. You know for yourself that the war, I repeat it again, has gone into Syria for the fifth year. Ladies and gentlemen, you are as elected Members as I am and as we Greens are. Political responsibility has nothing to do with Hellenic abilities. Political responsibility also means analysis to break the mind about developments that could come, and these developments were more than foreseeable. [[Abg. Rädler: What do you want to say?]] I want to say that all of us should do our job, including the Minister of the Interior. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Call the ÖVP: Then do something!]] [[Further ongoing calls to the ÖVP.]] I note that this statement is very painful to the ÖVP, that the Minister of the Interior should do her job and please take up protection seekers and accommodate them decently. That's still their responsibility. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] As the Minister of the Interior said about two weeks ago: Whoever gets too hot when the times become strenuous, he can gladly give up the responsibility again. In this saying, when the times become harder when it is a challenge to overcome, it is to say: Yes, a challenge must be met! But I also want to say at the same time – because it is always said that 300 applications for asylum are a major challenge for our country every day –: In the smaller and much poorer Jordan, 3,000 Syrian refugees arrive daily. [[Abg. Wöginger: And how are they there? They don't even have a tent!]] This is an emergency, but what we have is a challenging situation that can be mastered together. There would have been no need for tents, and they would have to make the most of a decent accommodation and permanent accommodations as soon as possible! But as long as the Constitution is as it is, as long as there is this political division of tasks, one can rightly ask the Minister of the Interior to do her job. We say no more and no less. The state councils and the mayors and the few mayors are also, of course, invited to do so. And I would be very pleased because the ÖVP is not by chance referred to as the so-called mayor party, and that is right, because it poses very, very many mayors, fewer mayors, if you also talk to your colleagues – that is such a naughtiness, says the colleague. [[Abg. Jewel beater: If you would research more accurately,! That's such a joke!]] Excuse me, my colleague, for saying that you should also speak to your colleagues as we all do. [[Abg. Jewel beater: Talk to you once!]] In summary, shared responsibility. It is feasible, but until now it has not worked – therefore this mistrust request. Dear Mrs. Interior Minister, either you take on your responsibility and do your job – or you can take your place! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e20785	Next speaker: Mr Krainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e20807	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Darmann asked, in general terms, in the room: Have you done something to allow refugees to be admitted to your community?, and I would like to answer him: Yes, I did! I come from the third district in Vienna, you know, this is Erdberg, and already more than a year ago, a refugee home in the former customs guard school has been locked up there for the first time. What we have done as social democrats in the third district, not only we as social democrats, but also with the other parties, also in the district representation, is that district president Erich Hohenberger, of course, has been talking to the police there regularly, held a Jour fixe to see if there are any problems of chastity, with the Billa, with which the inn has kept in touch with the local inn to see if there are any problems in practice. Together with the “Volkshilfe” in the third district, because Winter was a collection in which I was also involved, for winter clothing for the refugees, together with the “Volkshilfe” there was also a collection for children’s toys, because children also came there and children were there. He also spoke there with the Landstraßer Athletik Club, a football club nearby, that can be used at least on the morning of the artificial grass court. Together with the Volkshochschule in the third district, German courses have been offered for refugees in this refugee home. This we have done, without great tamtam, without great excitement, of course with ongoing information not only to the population, but also to the district representation in the third district. For example, there was also reported by the police that she said there are more problems with every Schani garden in the third district than with the refugee home. [[Abg. Darmann: Did you involve the population?]] However, this did not stop the FPÖ Landstraße when the home was re-opened for 350 people to sit there with posters and pretend to be a security problem. Resist better knowledge! Resist better knowledge! For she knows that there was no security problem and there is also a need for attention, not only by the Social Democrats, but of course by all the parties, that we ensure that we look at the sports club, the national university, with German courses and so on, of course, from the first day that these people are integrated. This has not prevented the liberals from hurling there and pretending to be a security problem. And I tell you, this photo that shows how the Freemans, with their posters, greeted a refugee family with children, speaks more than a thousand words about the way you act here. You should be really ashamed! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Greens as well as with representatives of ÖVP, NEOS and Team Stronach.]] Instead of apologizing for this kind and dealing with refugees in a constructive way, where there is no problem at all and where attention is paid to the fact that it works well where the people have given this willingness to help – where has the winter robe come from for the refugees, where have the children's toys come from, except from the population there? – instead of creating a positive mood here, you hate these people. Shame!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e20852	For a statement, Mrs. Federal Minister Mag. Mikl's head of speech reported. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e20874	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I've already said this one day: Austria is in an exceptional situation. Europe is in an exceptional situation. And for more than a year, I've been saying that it needs a European answer. For more than a year, I have said that Europe can fail in the refugee question if it does not get the right answers. It has already been said: Ten Member States make 92 percent of all asylum applications. Austria is now in one place.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e20922	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask for peace! It can't be that difficult. Please! [[Unrest in the meeting room.]] It's unbearable loud! - I'm asking for peace!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e20943	In May we had 6 240 asylum applications in Austria, in Sweden there were 5 800. And because we have such rapid procedures, we can say with fug and law: Yes, we have an “Asyl Express” because the procedures for Syrians, Afghans coming from crisis regions, on average, last four months. And, of course, when I'm a refugee, I see that I'm going where the procedures are handled quickly. In Sweden, as you know, we need ten months to do this, and in France we need two years to do so. And it's understandable that the refugees will come to us. That's why I'm saying: Our task is also to eliminate the wrong situation in Europe. And what we consider ourselves to be ourselves, we also feel that we are calling for the other Member States of the EU, namely, rapid asylum procedures and the best accommodation of refugees – as Austria does, as Austria shows! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That is why we will not tire of continuing to use a quota at European level, for a mandatory quota, because we all know that if we look into the world, at least in the next few months, the situation will not get better, yes, that we have to fear that it will last for years. And there it is our responsibility – and that is why I ask! – to promote in other Member States the establishment of the asylum system there too, to make rapid procedures there and to ensure that refugees are well accommodated there – as we do in Austria! Now, very briefly: Last year we had about 2 000 asylum applications at this time, in May of this year there were 6 240 asylum applications, so we now have more than three times as many. That is, we actually need three times as many officials in the Federal Office for Foreign Affairs and Asylum. And whoever can count one and one together knows that there needs to be a management decision; a management decision that I have taken together with the Federal Office for Foreign Affairs and Asylum. We have two options: We continue to work on all asylum applications as before, which, however, results in a massive delay or deterioration in quality everywhere – and I don't think we both want to do so, because what danger would we put ourselves at risk? . That particularly in Dublin cases, where other Member States are responsible, because, for example, refugees come from Bulgaria, Romania, Hungary or Italy, the applications remain with us, although other Member States are responsible for them. It is therefore our responsibility, of course, to carry it out as quickly as possible, so that the others also meet their responsibilities. Of course, new applications will be accepted, registered and provided on the ground. But it is, please, the most honest and most humane, if I say, in the case of constantly increasing number of asylum applications, that the processing of these asylum applications is stopped, that they cannot be processed, because it simply is not organisational at all. I am in favour of an honest and open policy!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e21001	Mr Hagen. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e21025	Mr President. The women Federal ministers! Mr State Secretary! High house! I didn't want to talk anymore, but the discussion took me on – I expected it to come. [[Calls.]] The discussion requires me to speak. You know, I'm a civilian police officer, I'm working in a department dealing with tourism. [[Call the ÖVP: How often?]] I must say that I did not think I had to protect the Federal Minister now, but I have to do so for quite clear reasons. Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Minister has said here what the fact is. That's what I'm constantly listening to at the police station. We were also in Traiskirchen yesterday, and we are constantly hearing that the people who work there are now at the stress limit. And there Mr Pilz can make a phone call to whom he wants, even if he might call the asylum home now – I don't know – but the point is that a bar really needs to be pushed forward to him. [[Abg. Pillow leaves the meeting room with his cell phone in hand]] And that is what the Federal Minister has done in the asylum process by raising her to the brake. That's a necessity. The Federal Minister has explained it correctly – I wanted to say so too – by pointing out that an asylum procedure in Austria lasts four months. I also voted in favour of this because I felt that the deportations would be faster if someone did not get an asylum.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e21057	Excuse me, deputies. Mr Klubobmann Lopatka, I would like to ask you if you want to have a conversation to make it out there or on the side. [[Abg. Lopatka, who, standing at the government bank, talks with Federal Minister Mikl- Leitner, concludes the conversation and returns to his seat.]] Thank you. Please, honourable Member, continue!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e21085	I was of the opinion that it is good if asylum procedures are handled quickly. But that's exactly why – this has now been explained to me from the expert mouth – we have become attractive to the tugs. I have already said here in the morning that no single asylum seekers come here without tugs, and Austria is so attractive because the procedures are being done so quickly. Mrs Bundesminister, I am right, you have taken the right step here, you have our support for it. That is why we will not agree with the motion for a resolution, because if you act properly, you should be supported. [[Congratulations and bravoruf at the ÖVP.]] Two more little things: I've got it. [[Abg. Pilz: Is that an asylum application?]] I talked to a German police officer on Saturday. [[Abg. Pilz: Do you get asylum for it?]] – Now listen to me carefully, Mr. Pilz, then learn something! – I spoke to a German policeman on Saturday, and he – listen to me! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Pillow.]] You can then speak, Mr Pilz. What you're doing here is very rude. But I'm not used to that from you. This German police officer has told me that they have had an asylum seekers who have already sought asylum in five countries, in Italy, in France, in Hungary, in Austria and now in Germany. Ladies and gentlemen, we see which asylum industry is in progress! And then there is the problem that people who get a rejected asylum notice will be hiding if they are to be postponed or brought back to Dublin countries. And they are no longer tangible to the authorities. It costs a lot of money, and there the police are overburdened. This is a problem, Mrs. Minister, that we should get under control. We really need to consider whether we should not change the law as regards this warning in advance by the delivery of the notice. I don't want to sound bad, but we're doing the work for the tugs in Austria. And this is a problem, ladies and gentlemen. That should therefore be changed. This is also urgently changed by law, Mrs. Minister. To do this, you should make proposals. But, as I said, the request for distrust is not justified. At least now you have taken action. You've responded. I'd rather you'd have acted earlier. But that is something, and that is why we will not support this proposal. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e21160	Mrs Belakovich-Jenewein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e21181	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Krainer, I know that, from the point of view of the left, it may not appear quite koscher that the FPÖ is also holding a demonstration or a rally, but I say to you: It is the securitised right – thank God – to demonstrate every Austrian and every Austrian in our Republic. In contrast to your left-wing chaots, which you always drive in January to Austria and to Vienna, who turn with stones and other objects against police officers and also against property values, who take advantage of injured police officers who cause property damage, disguise themselves, hide themselves, not even show their faces, was not a unique one in any way at this rally. [[Calls for Greens]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schwentner.]] I know the truth hurts. [[New call of the abg. Schwentner.]] – Mrs Schwentner, listen! – The truth may hurt some times, but you have to pronounce it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It doesn't make sense how you get inside here and overcome each other with the compassion you all feel, who isn't even more loving and more compassionate, because that unfortunately doesn't bring us a single step further. Mr Krainer, you know that very well. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I very much appreciate the district leader from the third district, but, Mr. Krainer, you already have a little exaggerated, because everyone who knows him knows that he has always done such things. He has always collected toys for Christmas and he has always collected robes for poor children for Christmas. So now don't you pretend that's something special. He's a social democrat with format, I'm telling you. There's some way you could cut yourself off. Then the SPÖ, if it had more politicians from the format of an Erich Hohenberger, would probably have other results. I'm telling you that quite honestly, too. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mrs Bundesminister, I would like to say one thing to you: One asylum camp after another is opened, but in parallel, you do nothing but close police posts, delete overtime with the officials. You know, the subjective sense of security of the people is thereby massively reduced. You should also include this in your considerations if you do all that! – I would think a little more materiality would be appropriate sometimes. [[Abg. Schwentner: You are only insecure all the time!]] I know, Mrs Schwentner, you obviously can't help it. You've proved it several times today. [[New call of the abg. Schwentner.]] It would make sense to look at the truth here and not always want to sit out and pretend to be no problem anyway, as if we could solve it all anyway. [[Abg. Schwentner: Apologize for your words in the morning!]] We won't be able to solve it. And if we wait for the EU, we will not find a solution at all! For, Mrs Federal Minister – and I would have liked to answer this question, she has already come today –: What number are we talking about at all, which is to be divided into quotas? Are those 40,000 or 400,000? And what if 4 million are to be allocated in a few years? What possibilities do we have then? Why don't you think about it? We have no calculations at all. Half a continent is on its way. So, please, if you already hope for the EU, you should include this in your considerations.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e21276	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We now proceed to the vote on item 18 on the agenda, which adopted the resolution on the human rights situation at the borders of the EU, annexed to the Committee's report 675 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. (E 88.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Riemer, colleagues and colleagues on the implementation of temporary border controls. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – That is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Korun, colleagues and colleagues on the failure of confidence towards the Federal Minister for the Interior in accordance with Article 74(l) of the Treaty. 1 of the Federal Constitutional Act. In view of the fact that such a decision is taken by the National Council in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this paragraph. I expressly note the presence of half of the Members of Parliament in the terms of the Constitution quoted above. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who are voting in favour of the motion for a reluctance to accept it. – That is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ing. Dietrich, colleagues on “Higher Penalty for Schlepper”. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – That is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Scherak, ladies and gentlemen, concerning a national action plan on asylum. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – That is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 19: Proposal from the Committee on Human Rights to take note of its report 676 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. [[19:46:33]] 20. Point First reading: Request by Dr. Nikolaus Scherak, Members of Parliament, concerning a federal law amending the Federal Constitutional Act and the Federal Law on the Rules of Procedure of the National Council (Regulatory Act 1975) (1141/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e21398	We're entering the 20th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e21426	Mr President. This proposal concerns the People's Procuratorate, which, as we all know, is an auxiliary body of this Parliament and an auxiliary body for us. Skurril is, however, that, although we have this aid body for ourselves as a Parliament, we have no right to ask questions to this relief body, because there is no right to interact with the People's Procuratorate. The Court of Auditors has the right to address questions to the President of the Court of Auditors or to ask written questions. We can't do that at the People's Procuratorate. The People's Procuratorate keeps putting its collegial decisions on the homepage. But she's just doing this as she wants. There are data protection concerns in the Committee. I am of the opinion that data protection concerns can also be resolved differently, namely by amending them in such a way that the reports and the collegiate decisions can still be put online. The fact is, last year only one of the collegial decisions has been placed on their homepage by the Public Procuratorate. There is still a very special occasion for our request, namely the appointment of the Commission leaders in the Public Prosecutor's Office, in which a great deal of criticism has been made, also from the NGOs who have said that they are using this Commission. sion ladder order are not satisfied. But what is important to me in this regard is not so much that I address this criticism, but that I want to know why, as a parliamentarian, I cannot ask in the public prosecutor's office and only have the opportunity to ask these questions once a year, in the People's Procuratorate Committee. I believe it is important that we have the same opportunities as the Court of Auditors in the People's Procuratorate, an auxiliary body of Parliament, that we, as Members, can also address these questions. For me, it is not understandable why we distinguish between the two auxiliary bodies. There was, by the way, one request in the Constitutional Committee that we extend the examination possibilities of the public prosecutor's office. Unfortunately, this was postponed by the government parties, partly with a rather absurd argument. We believe that we should adapt the public prosecutor's possibilities to those of the Court of Auditors. The same should apply, however, to the right of Members to interact. I think that would be an important step towards greater transparency. Again: The People's Procuratorate is an auxiliary body of Parliament, and therefore we MEPs should have the opportunity to ask questions to them.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e21471	I call Mr Spindelberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e21492	Mr Scherak, as I have just said, it is now about you trying to change the Rules of Procedure in the direction that, if I have read the request correctly, both the public prosecutor's area of responsibility and their competences should be changed. It is in your application that the People's Procuratorate – and you have done so – should be obliged to inform the National Council and the Federal Council at any time on request of its activities, on the grounds that it is also the case with the President of the Court of Auditors. Without wishing to assess this request now, because I also do not wish to prejudge the discussion in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure or in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, I wonder what added value we have in this regard, because the activities of the members of the public prosecutor's office, which have been in charge of public administration since 1977 and which since 2012 also have to control or promote respect for human rights, are not only to be read on their homepage, but we are also getting very comprehensive reports. In contrast to you, I also find it very difficult to compare the President of the Court of Auditors with the members of the public prosecutor's office, especially since, as you have correctly said, the public prosecutor's office is a collegiate body, which does not make the written reply you have requested – even because the Presidency is always changing there – much easier. And the need for this change in the Rules of Procedure now to justify the fact that, in my view, it is at least for me to understand, the appointment of Commissioners, despite concerns of some NGOs, is carried out without their consent, goes a little too far for me personally. I am convinced that the members of the public prosecutor's office elected by us for six years have certainly not made this appointment easy and that they have weighed all the pros and contrasts. But we will still have enough time in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure or the Committee on the Rules of Procedure to exchange our arguments.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e21535	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Darmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e21556	Mr President. High house! At this first reading, there are two things to be said in the direction of NEOS, ladies and gentlemen: on the one hand, that the motivation for such a request, in my opinion, has nothing to look for here in the House if, as a political group, a club here in the House for a party-politically motivated revenge campaign by a member of a Commission of the Public Prosecutor's Office, whose contract was no longer extended, it is therefore necessary to make the best of these requests. But in detail, this motivation, which you mentioned, which was also a trigger for this request, will be expressed tomorrow in a comprehensive debate on the People's Procuratorate Committee and on the activities of the Volksanwälte, and will also be the subject here. We look forward to it. On the content of this proposal, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that it has made NEOS a little bit easier. While they are always talking about the subject matter of parliamentary work, they have been very superficial about this subject, because their request is comprehensive in terms of the desired right of interaction with the People's Procuratorate. However, they are, according to their own words, based on the rights given to us in this respect to the Court of Auditors. However, if one reads in the Rules of Procedure of the National Council, Mr Colleague – I refer to § 91a GOG-NR – then it is noted that the right of Members to interact with the President of the Court of Auditors exists only in three very concrete points, namely, I quote: “This right of question is subject to the scope of the Court of Auditors’ sphere of activity, in so far as it is,”, first, “the management of the budget within the meaning of the Federal Budget Act”, that is, the Court of Auditors’ budget, then “the authority within the meaning of the kind. 125 para. 3 B-VG – that was the second – ‘and, thirdly, ‘the organisation of the Court of Auditors’. That is to say, this right of question concerns three points which are quite specific. And we are also ready to talk about a right of interaction in relation to these three concrete points in the direction of the People's Procuratorate. All that is going on is, in our view, overwhelming, and we should be much more concerned here in the House with finally extending the public prosecutor's audit competence to distributed companies. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e21596	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Dr. Zinggl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e21615	Mr President. High house! If we hear from the media over and over again about police attacks and know that there are relevant complaints at the public prosecutor's office, but we don't know anything about it in the public prosecutor's report last year, then it will be time for me to ask the public prosecutor responsible in the relevant committee some questions. And if, for example, I ask him how many were entitled – only the legitimate ones! – Complaints in connection with the police, then the popular attorney tells me, he doesn't know. [[Abg. Schimanek: But he will submit it, he said!]] It doesn't matter, he doesn't know. – I knew, and I told him. I told him it was 181. – Madam President, you can say something anyway. [[Abg. Schimanek: He said he will submit it! – So that’s already!]] Then I asked him to report something to me and us about the hardest cases. And the popular lawyer Fichtenbauer then told us about a very ridiculous case where a drunken cyclist in Carinthia protested against his criminal mandate. This, ladies and gentlemen, is a contempt of Parliament. It is also a disregard for the public prosecutor's duties. And that is why we believe that the right to interact, the right to question the people's lawyers is very important, in order to bring a little more transparency into the conduct of this institution to this Parliament. And I cannot understand at all why there could even be one single argument against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e21665	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I accept Amendment No 1141/A to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. [[19:57:05]] 21. Point First reading: Request by Mr Matthias Köchl, colleagues concerning a Federal Act amending the 1998 Economic Chamber Act (WKG) (1149/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e21707	Finally, we come to the 21st. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e21734	Dear ladies! Dear gentlemen! Imagine the following news release: “WKO presents 308 million relief package for the economy”! – This is actually the behind-thinking of the request, because I would like to make the Chamber II the subject, which was introduced as a provisional in the 1970s, still exists and continues to be a burden of €308 million for the Austrian economy every year. For those who have perhaps not yet done so, Chamber II depends on wages, a certain percentage of which is transferred to the Financial Office and passed on to the Chamber of Commerce. It is therefore in the final effect a tax on service conditions, i.e. a tax on jobs, and this is quite clearly an additional cost of pay. And that's why we want to do that on the subject. When it comes to reducing the economy over and over again, one should also say how to finance it, and we have found an approach: We want to put the Chamber II to zero over several years, and the first step would be to implement a quarter of it, i.e. specifically € 74 million in discharge. If the EIA colleagues may then be critical about this, because it is also about money that the Chamber of Commerce has to save, I would like to ask you: See this positively! We believe in the reform power of the Chamber that the Chamber will find 74 million annually in its area, which it can save. And if NEOS may say now – and I can already know – they want to do this immediately and suddenly – there have already been appropriate proposals from NEOS – then I remind them: Mr Loacker has also said in other areas, namely the Chamber of Workers, that he wants to do so gradually, in several stages. This is not our approach at the Chamber of Labour, but with this reduction we would eventually have brought the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Labour from the budget to about the same level after five years. So this could also, as it were, create a balance between red and black. It is important not to question the entrepreneurs too much to the Chamber, there are relatively few positive feedback. Finally, one has even said that it is an evil enrichment system, arranged according to the banks. I would not go that far, but the mood towards the Chamber of Commerce is going to end due to compulsory membership, so not so positive. And that the board is still in a constitutional position – with two-thirds majority – we also want to question massively. Even you can leave the church – but leave the Chamber of Commerce, you have no possibility. We from the Greens stand for a compulsory membership and for a legal representation, only that should be appropriately slender, correspondingly democratic, transparent. Perhaps still as a helpful indication where you could find the €74 million that are planned as an additional wage relief from us: If you look at the chamber figures – these are also disclosed by parliamentary inquiries – then you will see that 91 million euros alone amount to the Federal Chamber personnel costs. If you divide this by 789 – the number of full-time equivalents – then you will reach a huge 6 600 € in average gross wage costs for all employees of the Federal Chamber of Commerce. If you consider group support by the Chamber of Commerce to a value of € 17.6 million, you will see that there is a need for action. And if you look at the backs of the chambers and also the ten-fold structures, you can also see that there is the possibility to relieve the Austrian economy by reducing the chamber envelope II. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e21786	Mr Matznetter has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e21807	Mr President. High house! I am saddened by the changes that are taking place here in the Greens. In this House, under black and blue, I went to the speaker's desk with your colleagues to criticize the attack on democracy in the form of the consideration at that time to reduce the Chamber's envelopes of the Chambers of Workers. We have referred to this project as exactly what it was, namely, an attempt to deliberately harm a representative of interest, because it was unpleasant. Therefore, before such applications, before such laws – which is at a level of the Blues’ applications and could come from them as well – one should always consider what this means in the overall context. This preconception has happened because one is less inclined to fall into the argument: Jö, you can save them a little! Now, Mr Köchl, I would also have been able to select from the Stenographical Protocols the contributions made by my colleagues at the time. These were very successful and have also expressed very consciously respect for democracy and the necessary facilities. This was particularly the case with Mr Van der Bellen, and I am sorry that today the Green Group comes from such things, the popularity of NEOS and others. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Honestly, this 70-percent majority of the ÖVPs, who sometimes consider the Chamber as if it belonged to them – no question. [[Call the FPÖ:Ah so?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. And the AK?]] But the solution is not to say that I radically shorten all possibilities of representing interests there, because the majority of the functions there concern services. And I would recommend it to you, Mr Köchl: Go abroad once! Ask once smaller and medium-sized companies what services they get that other countries cannot offer to their companies! Most of the money goes in there. There is a service offered – and they would shorten you with your request. And if there's something you want to change: Let's do a better job than opposition in the Chamber of Commerce! Let's see that we get more votes there! And if you take over the majority, you can make the request and say we're going to get out with less money. - All right! But the decision must fall there, in their members and in the elections there, not here. [[Call the ÖVP:Genau!]] In this sense: Van der Bellen was right then, Köchl was not.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e21876	Mrs Jank. The Group's remaining speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e21905	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Yes, I would like to explain to Mr Köchl what the Chamber is. Actually, I mean, he could know. The Chamber of Commerce works because the legislator also pretends it to us, according to the principles of economy, economy and effectiveness. We will then also be examined: by the Supervisory Office, by the Court of Auditors, by the Supervisory Authority, by the Financial Office, by the Social Security Office. So they know what we are doing, namely the ongoing development of the organization. We have a number of reforms behind us, we have reforms in front of us. We have reduced our chamber envelopes by 30 percent. We have reduced our organizational units by one third, from 150 to 100. We lowered the staff level by 26 percent. [[Abg. Köchl: Increased!]] We are currently implementing joint synergies among the chambers, saving only between € 10 and € 15 million a year. [[Abg. Köchl: The numbers speak the opposite!]] – So everything you should see and take into account in your criticism. [[Abg. Fekter: He has no idea!]] Then: Whoever talks about the abolition of the KU 2, must say that he is also talking about the abolition of the Chamber of Commerce. 50 percent of the revenue comes from KU 2. Then, Mr President, there is no more support for 100 000 apprentices each year, no more 45 000 founding consultations, no more one-person forums, where exactly the smallest ones get what they need and could hardly afford on the market. Then there are no 98 000 certificates of origin – the foreign economy is addressed with additional 490 000 contacts annually. And there can be no 1.2 million service contacts of the Chamber of Commerce with its members. That means that each member uses our services several times. 75 percent of the members say that they are satisfied or even very satisfied with the performance of their Chamber of Commerce. So there, too, you're wrong with your statement. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] There would be no adequate education. – The Economic Chamber Organisation is the largest non-confessional educational provider for both employees and entrepreneurs themselves. So the abolition of the KU 2 is certainly not a wise idea. Think about it again! Strengthen the Chamber of Commerce! Bring yourself in with good ideas if you have any! But taking the members what they need to be able to do good work to get support is not a good idea. There are entrepreneurs who need help, advice, support in simplest things. All of this is done by the Chamber of Commerce. Mr Commissioner, think about your request.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e21974	I call Mr MMMag. Dr. Kassinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e21995	Mr President. High house! This is of course clear and to be expected that Mr WKO Vice-President Matznetter and former President Jank will defend the institution in which they hold these offices with all the arguments available to them. That makes sense. It is not logical, on the other hand, that the Greens and the Freemans are quite similar in content. This request by Mr Köchl is a classic case where the liberals can agree to a request from the Greens. We can talk about it – I'm right, too – whether the abolition should come immediately or in a level plan, as you suggest. This is quite accessible to a discussion to which we are also ready. Historically speaking, the chamber envelope 2, you have already suggested – and this is now my in-depth explanation – that was introduced in 1979 for the financing of the workers' work. So it was introduced in a deal with the SPÖ. However, it is not clear whether all means have actually been used for workers' processing. It is clear and obvious, on the other hand, that this original 1 promille was quadrupled from the wage sum to 4 promille within a short time. It is also clear that in 1989 this workers' redundancie was re-initiated. And it is also clear that KU 2 still exists. That is to say, a reduction in additional wage costs by €300 million, which President Leitel always speaks of, he could immediately implement by replacing the Chamber 2 without replacement. This has a discharge potential of €300 million. The board would still remain €500 million. If I now count the €685 million available in reserves and reserves as a buffer with, so to speak, then I already believe that such a discharge would be possible – if really the will is there, even if the pressure is there with regard to structural reforms in the chambers. Because now we are talking about structural reforms only. There is no reason at all to implement serious structural reforms there. You're constitutionally secured. You get over fee – and this is about: the relation – forced membership contributions. So there is more or less stagnation, except for a few, so to speak, cosmetic measures in the area of structures. This is not the wind we would need in the chamber. In the end, it must be – and we are different from the Greens – the goal of intensively discussing, or abolishing, the abolition of compulsory membership in a final step. We liberals say that this is a relic of post-war times, but does not correspond to a modern representation of interest in a modern state of the 21st century. ==References==
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e22032	Mr Schellhorn. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e22053	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Before Mr Matznetter's sadness takes place and he breaks down in tears, I would also like to say one more thing about Mr Jank's defence struggle. In so far as only one example from the German Bundestag: As the representatives of the social partners do not even have the right to be in the Bundestag, that is to say to take office, that is already a difference. [[Between calls at the SPÖ and the Abg. Fekter.]] I think the chamber envelope 2 is a relic of Sallinger. You were a young Dirndl – when the Sallinger was there, you were a young, pretty girl! [[in the direction of the Abg. Frameset]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] At that time the levy was introduced for four years, it still exists today. Time has progressed, you're still sitting there, but it's like that once. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fekter.]] The Chamber 2 was then used as a bridge for needy micro-enterprises. In this respect, I would just like to tell you a number – it is not quite right, but we want to face the situation, the reality. They are going to help me, and all entrepreneurs in this country are not going so rosy at the moment. The mood is depressive, they need to see that they get over the rounds, they need to see that they reduce personnel, employees so that they can easily manage. What does the number 44-31-40 tell you? – That’s not your bikini character like 30 years ago, no! [[in the direction of the Abg. Frameset]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e22120	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to take a step back.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e22135	This is 44 per cent plus administrative costs, 31 per cent plus forced contributions and 40 per cent plus staff costs. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Now, explain this to this company that you represent, which cannot even leave your club! That's what you'll explain to them once! I don't think you're used to it anymore. [[Abg. Schittenhelm: What does he think?- Oh, my God!]] Mrs Jank as the former President of the Chamber of Commerce has said that if we delete this, then the Chamber no longer exists. - Yes, it can be! It may be different: on the basis of the voluntaryness, that: You are fighting and running as a representative of interest for your entrepreneurs and that you are also doing something in this respect, which is particularly important. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fekter.]] I am delighted when we then discuss how Mr Vetter – he is now thank God – will vote. In March he was still strictly opposed, now I do not know how to proceed with this. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] But I already think that the backbone will be claimed accordingly, as we do when we vote. [[Abg. Fekter: Maybe we convinced him!]] One more thing: The Greens' request is too short. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] We're for the removal. We are for general deletion and for immediate deletion, otherwise there can be nothing else. We want to relieve the farms and not see them on the hunger cloth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e22222	Mr Schellhorn, for your statement on the dimensions of a colleague's body, I give you a call for order. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I accept Amendment No 1149/A to the Committee on Economic and Industrial Affairs. The agenda is exhausted. [[20:14:03]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00079_d8e22273	I am still announcing that self-employed requests 1202/A(E) to 1228/A have been tabled at today's meeting. Question No 5430/J to 5449/J has also been raised. The next meeting of the National Council on business communications and allocations will be convened at 8.14 p.m., immediately following this meeting. This meeting is closed.
