ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e2375	Ladies and gentlemen! The Rules of Procedure state that the President opens the meeting without regard to the number of those present. In this sense, I open today's 88. Meeting of the National Council and welcome all those who are already present despite this provision of the Rules of Procedure. I ask you to take the seats. The Official Protocol of 87. Meeting of the 2nd meeting of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, For today's sitting as prevented, MEPs are reported Dr. Stippel, Haller, Ellmauer, Mag. Frieser, Dr. Mock, Ablinger, Dkfm. Holger Bauerund Ing. Langthaler. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e2415	For today's meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government has made a statement as follows: The Federal Minister for Education and Cultural Affairs Elisabeth Gehrerwerd by Mr. Federal Minister Mag. Molterer. Announcement of a declaration by the Federal Minister for the Interior
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e2442	I declare that the Federal Minister for the Interior of Schlögl has expressed the intention of making a statement on the current state of the investigation on the investigation of the bombings of recent years. If there is no objection, I will give the floor to the Minister of State to give his statement after the current hour. Is there any objection? This is not the case. That's why I'm going to do that. Following the declaration made by the Federal Minister, according to a request made to me in accordance with § 81 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure. Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e2472	We are now arriving at the current hour for which the following subject has been proposed: "Employees protection in Austria – distortion of competition and workplace risk" Mr Peter, you have been reported as the first speaker. If you wish, I shall give you the floor, or I will interrupt the meeting until the Federal Minister's presence. [[Call: She's coming.]] Mr Peter came to speak. I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e2504	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Before you is an entrepreneur, for whom worker protection is an essential part of his corporate culture, and before you stands a liberal MP, who expressly confesses himself – also on behalf of his party – to worker protection. I am one of the few Members of the House who are allowed to implement the rules governing the protection of workers in their own businesses, and I therefore believe that I am called upon to speak on them and to report them to you. I know that we have implemented EU directives on the protection of workers in Austria, and I also know that other European countries are also obliged to do so. But I'll hold on to one thing: The way in which we have implemented these directives on worker protection in Austria is a world champion. The directives are world-class in the production of administrative burdens, world-class in the bureaucracy in the establishments, and they are world-class in increasing labour costs – precisely on the point where we have already agreed in so many debates that labour costs hinder employment. Labour costs strengthen the rights of those who have work, but they take the opportunity of those who have none. Let me focus on the subject. We are distinguishing three levels: first, the evaluation of the dangers, second, the question of the prevention services of safety professionals and thirdly, the field of occupational medical care. I can only hold on to President Kaun of the Upper Austria Chamber of Commerce, who has said quite clearly: As these workers' protection laws are implemented, they are far too bureaucratic and expensive for businesses. If you use security professionals, then the law dictates you how many hours per employee you have to use them, regardless of whether you have a endangered operation or a business with pure office activity. For example, in the field of construction, we have seven times as many work accidents as in the field of service – a completely natural development, because the work on construction is just dangerous – we still have a five-fold accident frequency in the field of repairs of consumer goods, in the area of motor vehicle workshops, for example, as in a tax consultancy firm; nevertheless, the use of safety professional is still required in the same number of hours. That, ladies and gentlemen, is indeed pure destruction of money! The training of a safety professional in the company costs the company 100 000 S. If you have the accident that this employee leaves you, I can only bring you the example of "People don't get angry": Then you have just been thrown at the "human anger" and then you have to roll a six again, so put again 100 000 S to train the next employee or the next employee. Make it over external forces, you have to pay hourly rates that are well over 900 S. Ladies and gentlemen! It is not a question of not carrying out an evaluation – clearly we must look at the jobs, see what is necessary, what needs to be improved, what needs to be addressed – and it is not a question of the fact that there should be no safety-confidence persons in the operation that are concerned with the implementation of these requirements – in addition, there is also the labour inspectorate, who also has the task of checking these things very clearly in the operation – but it is that you have implemented a sensible thing in such a way that it leads to costs in the undertakings that are simply abstract. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Most of you, ladies and gentlemen in the House, do not feel these costs. They decide a lot of laws, and while they break their heads on how high the administrative burden would be to implement this or that law, they obviously do not break their heads or break their heads too little about what it costs the standard recipients at the end of the day. I would like to invite you to: Read all these regulations, read these texts of law, deal seriously with them, then you will notice that this is not enforceable, dead right! The next point is the field of occupational doctors: That's where the dog gets crazy in the pan! It is about a redistribution from the commercial businesses of Austria to the doctor's chamber and to the medical profession. ==References== In January 1996, the minimum fees of 1 610 S per hour were actually made out, which goes down a bit until 1 250 S – per hour please! –, plus journey time, plus travel expenses allowances. And, of course, you've got one. These rates were re-adapted in January 1997. Can it be a little more? What else can it cost? The minimum rate is now 1 642 S, and I'm sure if we wait another year, it will reach the 1 700 S limit. Ladies and gentlemen! In this way, you have decided nothing but that from the year 2000, when the Workers' Protection Act is implemented in all establishments of all sizes, additional labour costs will be incurred in the establishments and an annual flow from the establishments to the medical profession in the order of 1.2 billion schilling and more. And I'm not talking about large-scale companies alone in the companies up to 100. If the whole thing would be useful now if the occupational physicians who offer themselves as business doctors in the establishments – I already have the third conversation on this topic – knew at least what they should do in the establishments if they were to do something in the establishments, then it would be very, very positive. It is clear that a work physician helps entrepreneurs to look at the individual workplace in terms of evaluation – what we need to change is the screen properly adjusted, the chair is in the right position; there are a variety of occupational diseases that we might be able to prevent – but this is not an activity that you can regulate for all types of operations together hourly by saying that a work physician must be used exactly 76 hours a year. This is a cost of 120 000 S – not counting the room costs, not calculating the working time of the employees, who are in turn held by what they should actually do, namely to provide customer service, to provide services and not just to work for the administration. So this is a medium-sized company that has less than 100 employees and looks at costs at the beginning of a quarter of a million Schilling – if you can really create a cost bill and are also prepared to take note of this cost bill – and which, on the other hand, will amount to well over 150 000 S per year. If, on our premise, a sectionalist of the Ministry of Social Affairs writes to us from the Central Labour Inspectorate: What do you have at all? This makes up only 800 s per employee per year!, then I have to accuse this lady: She just doesn't know what she's talking about! To say that is only 800 S per employee, first is wrong, and second, this lady did not understand what cost pressure in the businesses means. This is an insult to all those who have to fight around with these laws. She doesn't have any problems with it, she does it in her ministry and goes home on Friday at 2 p.m. We need to implement a law that cannot be implemented at this time. You force us to break the law, you force us to say: Just complain! Just keep us locked up and gripped, but we're not ready to do that. [[Acclaim at the Liberal Forum and Abg. Haigermoser.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Another non-worldly insanity about this Workers' Protection Act is the employer's liability for his employees. This has really been invented by people who have never experienced in their lives what business culture is, what business culture is, what partnership between employees and entrepreneurs should be in operation. Ladies and gentlemen! I therefore have to warn an employee in writing that he is doing this and that. Do you know what that means: "Probably warn in writing"? That means that, if he does not fulfill this, I have to release him without time, because a sustainable failure to perform a service instruction is a reason for a timeless release. Of course, it is still necessary that the State Service was excluded from the Workers' Protection Act – a particularly "appropriate" variant. We are not prepared to do something in this direction, where we as the administration, as a state itself, are responsible. This makes us the only state in the European Union that does not implement it. Let me summarize – this is a request and a knowledge, ladies and gentlemen, an awareness that hurts –: In this country, you and your policy set the framework conditions for us entrepreneurs who give us a clear direction: Employees as few employees as possible! This is your policy at the expense of those people in this country who are unemployed and who have no chance of getting a job.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e2604	In addition to the names mentioned earlier, Mrs Gredler has also been reported to prevent the sitting today. Mrs. Hostasch has reported on the submission of an opinion. The speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e2632	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank Mr Peter for his work on the subject, on the occasion of this current hour, for being able to say a few basic words about the protection of workers, and I should like to start by referring to the costs of the protection of workers where Mr Peter referred to labour costs. For me, effective protection of workers is not only an important element in achieving humanitarian objectives, but I think I can prove that workers' protection also brings economic benefits, both from the economic and industrial point of view. This is because the cost of investment in preventive measures is considerably lower than the follow-up costs incurred by accidents at work and occupational diseases. High standards of worker protection are therefore, in my firm conviction, also crucial factors for productivity and competitiveness. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Peter! In particular, accidents at work lead to competitive disadvantages – due to the resulting downtime and also to the internal costs. It even gives the European Union – "even" I say, because, from a social policy point of view, we complain that social policy is still not valued as I would like it to be – a very special priority for the harmonisation of workers' rights: Two thirds of EU legislation on employment, employment and social protection concerns workers. In the EU, 5 million workers are victims of accidents at work each year, and 6,000 accidents at work are fatal. Of 100 000 workers in the EU, seven people die of an accident at work each year, and in the construction industry, a particularly dangerous industry, every 10th employee suffers an accident at work every year in the EU. Apart from the high human suffering associated with every accident at work, the follow-up costs for accidents at work as calculated by the EU amount to 3 per cent of gross domestic product annually, i.e. around 850 billion schilling, which should certainly be better available for the creation of new jobs than to remedy damage. In Austria, the number of accidents at work and occupational diseases is declining Thanks to God. For example, since 1990, pure accidents at work, without road accidents, have decreased by 15.3 percent, and the recognised occupational diseases have even decreased by 34.7 percent. The economic damage caused by accidents at work in 1994 was still around 30 billion schilling, and this amount could be reduced by 3.3 billion schilling after a recent study by the Federal Chamber of Labour in 1995 and 1996. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] These are cost reductions that benefit businesses and not just workers. I believe that these figures show very clearly that we are on the right track in the field of worker protection and that, in particular, the Workers' Protection Act, which we have also adopted in the European Union, has a positive impact on safety and health at work. The vast majority of workers in the European Union and thus also in Austria are employed in small businesses, so the European Union rightly also places particular emphasis on the fact that workers' protection is also applied and enforced in small businesses. In future, the Commission will ensure that Member States effectively monitor the operational application of workers' protection rules. Dear ladies and gentlemen! For Austria, therefore, it is about adopting the minimum standards of the European Union for the protection of workers also for those establishments for which they have not yet been implemented. In my area of competence, there is still a need to rethink, namely in the field of land labour law, but we are also in the process of resolving the deficits. The general review procedure ended on 30. September, and I will try to bring about a solution in the near future. However, I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that we should already have a common social policy understanding that all workers, whether they are employed in a small business, a large company or in a medium-sized enterprise, should be subject to the same rules as workers' protection, and I would like to state very openly that I am not satisfied with the situation that public services are not subject to the same rules as in the private sector. It is not my competence that I am addressing here, but I know that efforts are under way, including in the public service, in the Federal Employment Protection Act, to gradually tackle the implementation of EU directives. Of course, workers' protection rules apply in those areas where federal services operate in the private sector, so that there are no competitive disadvantages vis-à-vis private enterprises. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to point out that it is always argued by representatives of the economy that the cost of organizing the provisions of the Workers' Protection Act is in no relation to the intended effect and that they would lead to financial difficulties. You, honourable Members, have just used this argument in your speech. I would like to bring an example from Germany and one from Austria. At Volkswagen AG, worker protection has brought benefits to the company due to the social obligation as well as the economic necessity. Due to internal calculations, Volkswagen AG’s operating health management costs were, for example, 38 D-Mark per car in 1995, while the costs were set for a single 500 D-Mark health day. The Vorarlberger Hydro Aluminium Nenzing, an Austrian example of business benefits through efficient workers' protection measures, has been found, which, due to an improved workers' protection system, has been able to reduce accidents at work from 1988 to 1995 to almost zero, by 94.7 percent. The associated operating downtime could be reduced by around 93 percent. So these are examples of practice, concrete experiences of how to achieve economic and business benefits through worker protection. I was recently at a large event of the General Insurance Institute, in which a representative of the Board of the Opel Austria also stressed the importance of worker protection for the company and not only for the workers. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Peter, ladies and gentlemen! Allow me to refer briefly to the cost factor of occupational medical care. It is said that only companies with up to 100 employees have to spend a total of around 1.1 billion shillings a year; I take the opportunity to publish the Liberal Forum at the time. However, if this calculation is based on the additional costs that individual businesses receive through occupational medical care, I think there is a different picture. In this way, if one considers a holding with 50 employees, it is noted that the additional operating costs amount to 39 300 S. I know your argument – you refer to the statement – that it cannot be ignored if there is an extra burden of 800 s. I too have a sense of cost, honourable Members, but it is always about putting these costs into relation to the economic and operational benefits. I think the examples I have brought show that these costs can be offset by the advantages of the business economy on the other hand by far, giving a net success for all those involved, both for workers and for enterprises. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Finally, allow me to say: My department has also tried to find practical solutions with regard to the implementation of the Workers' Protection Act and the Regulation. I would like to be prepared to rethink specific non-practice, non-sensible provisions in regulations and laws and to introduce a new solution together, but I do not regard some accusations as objective, for example when administrative simplifications, such as the documentation we have caused, are considered to be difficulties. Sometimes I have the impression that this argument is used to operate overall at the expense of worker protection, and not to enforce a comprehensive worker protection for all employees in our country. We have tried to find a very simple form, especially in the documentation. I have been able to see from many discussions with the economy that there is often a lack of information on the situation of the law, which leads to an excessive bureaucracy being interpreted in, and I hope that we can work together to achieve a comprehensive acceptance of workers' protection through information, even in the practical enforcement of all, the small, medium and large enterprises. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e2743	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister. In the next debate, speaking times are limited by 5 minutes each. Mr Dr Kier is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e2770	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am going to use the 5 minutes very compactly and I would like to address the statements of the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs and to address those of my colleague, Helmut Peter. My colleague has already said this explicitly, and I repeat it consciously once again: Workers' protection is a real concern for us. I assume that the Federal Minister is also pursuing a similar concern from the point of view of the objective. The criticism we are expressing here deals primarily with the methods, the ways and the way in which they are implemented and the costs associated with them. I should therefore like to refer, first of all, to the considerations you have made regarding the economic effects of the operation. You have correctly calculated, using the basic accounting methods, that this is true for a business of 50 employees per employee in about 800 S – that's right. However, you have overlooked that this very method is not an economic method, because you aggregate in total and then divide back. The central error has already been expressed: There are no mechanisms in the legal arrangements you have made to encourage businesses to do more than just take these costs into account, so that the common objective of improving worker protection is also implemented in the interests of the concrete operation. In fact, if I have to spend a certain amount of money on this legal arrangement completely linear and without regard to other possibilities, because it is provided for in the law in this way, I do so so in order to comply with the law, but in the other case, there is no interest in optimising it beyond. And that's the central mistake! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Of course, we Liberals too are not so naive that we assume that worker protection is something you get free of charge. Of course, ordinary, safe, humane or otherwise positively described jobs are not exactly cheaper than sluggish. That's undisputed. We do not believe that we can have worker protection for nothing, but we believe that, with the law you have decided here and which today is also discussed in practice and in its effects, the aim is largely missed, because you think only in collective order and do not respect the individual needs of the enterprises. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] To make clear to you what it means: AUVA is a very good example. It is an old institution, it is a successful institution – you yourself have called the trends in the field of occupational accidents – and it has surpluses, and what happens? – It will not be adapted or re-dimensioned after the progress of time for new purposes, but it will be financed from its premiums surpluses, surplus contributions – so that I remain clearly. They see that the insurance element behind the AUVA would be that there is a similarity of interest in avoiding costs by means of better jobs. It is not a linear prescribing of occupational hours of use, which, if you look at it more precisely, the questions: What will happen in concrete terms at this time? What can happen in two hours in a farm with six to ten employees? But that's another chapter. Mrs. Federal Minister! We are pleased that you, too, regret that public service is not included, but the situation of competence in a federal government which is a collegial body should not be an obstacle to making cross-border arrangements. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] In this context, I remember the last meeting of the Committee. We had an agreement of the ILO on the agenda on which it was about worker protection in mining. One of the demands made by the ILO in this agreement was that all workers' protection regulations should be understood in an understandable language. This request of the agreement was one of the reasons why we could not ratify it. The second reason was that miners' protection is located at the Ministry of Economic Affairs – mining – as well as at the Ministry of Social Affairs – labour inspectorates' inspectors and therefore apparently cannot be harmonised. I do not know why this is not possible because we have a single federal government! We are dealing with these questions. It is about having a common goal, but we believe that the ways in which you go miss the goal and at the end of the chain only... [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e2843	I would ask you to pay attention to the speaking time!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e2858	That is the final sentence. – At the end of the chain there are only costs, with no positive result. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e2888	The next speaker is Mr Koppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e2910	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Peter, I am pleased that we agree on the fact that worker protection is very important for the workers there, but also for the companies. Mr Peter! I am not aware that you are taking advantage of the opportunity and here you are insulting a deserved employee of the Ministry of Social Affairs from the speaker's desk. I am against it, Mr Deputies. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Year after year, some 100 000 workers suffer an accident at work, and 60 people die from their serious injuries. Thank God the number of accidents at work is declining, but still far too much happens. The economic consequences are enormous. As a result of medical visits, medical care and medical care, direct and indirect follow-up costs are incurred both by the companies and the state, which has already been expressed. I do not want to talk about human suffering here at all. For financial reasons alone, further improvement in the field of worker protection would be urgently needed, especially in the areas of production and construction. As a result of new techniques, labour market pressure, stress and other factors, new forms of physical and mental work are created. I take away, ladies and gentlemen, the "standard" of 3. In October 1997, University Professor Winfried Panse gave a lecture at the ÖVP's Political Academy on Angst at the Workplace. Mr Panse calculates that the Austrian workers' concern for their jobs in the domestic economy causes an annual damage of 80 billion schillings. Lowering efficiency, rising failure, alcoholism, tablet addiction and medical follow-up costs cause this enormous financial burden. The pity of many entrepreneurs about the amount of labour protection costs is therefore not appropriate, as I believe. I am grateful for this current hour of the Liberal Forum because it gives us the opportunity to show the positive sides of worker protection. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! I represent, Mr Peter, a counterthesis: Workers' protection promotes job security and brings competitive advantages. [[Abg. May. Peter: This is out of the question!]] I can therefore say that with a calm conscience, because I have met many different jobs in my previous career, Mr Peter. Workers' protection contributes to increased job security for individual workers, promotes the motivation and performance of employees, reduces the lack of working hours and thus increases productivity. This, ladies and gentlemen, is an essential factor in the competitiveness of Austrian businesses. This generally increases job security. Dear ladies and gentlemen! For this reason, we stand by social democrats for further up-to-date expansion of workers' protection provisions. And in this sense, ladies and gentlemen, a warm welcome!".
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e2959	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Steindl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e2981	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! The debate on the protection of workers is nothing new here in the House. When you look at media reports, you can see: This will be discussed constantly, and this will continue to be discussed in the future, because the technical and organisational changes of our working world are also changing the work content and creating new skills requirements. This discussion will have to be conducted primarily in the social partners. I don't like trying to play a group against the others. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! But we experience that every day, and it doesn't bring us a millimeter away, but only creates rigid fronts. That is why, Mr Peter, I have to say that, the title is a little revealing. "Employees' Protection in Austria" – agree, you can discuss. But "Competition distortion and workplace risk" is already very one-sided. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Peter.]] I am afraid that the Liberal Forum is not about a constructive discussion, but about a mutual playing out, and we strongly reject this from the ÖVP! [[Abg. May. Peter: That's a premise!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I do not think anything about it, either, when Mr Haider says in a press release that the Workers' Protection Act should be completely suspended. That's double-duty, because on the one hand, Haider is acting as a protector of performance preparations – but now he may have forgotten that performance requires health above all. I therefore believe that we should keep this debate on a permanent basis, and we have already put the appropriate emphasis on it. In this context, I refer to the Novelle Workers' Protection Act, with which various reliefs could be reached for the enterprises for which entrepreneurs could be reached. For example, in the case of businesses, up to ten employees may be excluded from a risk documentation if there are no particular risks. Or: The dates for the investigation of hazards have been postponed, in particular for small businesses, until the year 2000. Further: For non-working workers, a significant reduction in the service provider's liability is applied. We should therefore have this discussion, ladies and gentlemen, more differentiated. And above all, we should involve the public sector – I am entirely with you. It cannot be that, as in my district, for example, the employees of a district headquarters in the smallest rooms – I would like to say almost: "Besenkammern" – are housed. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: Why didn't you decide, Mr. Steindl?]] Of course, the service provider is also required. I note that new and safe jobs come only from healthy and safe companies. This has always been the economic policy line of the EIA, and so it will remain of course. It is a fact that this includes healthy and well-motivated workers. I have a Central Office statistics in front of me that over 1 million workers complain about noise at work; 855 also believe that they are working at acute risk of accident: So there is still a lot to be done in these areas. We must move ahead with the Workers' Protection Act. We must push back the bureaucracy; we must not tax businesses. It may be possible to remove: This must be a permanent issue, and this will be accepted by the EIA in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e3050	Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé spoke.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e3071	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Steindl, we have very different discussions on a law on the protection of workers. We are saying that we want workers' protection, but we want a proper protection of workers, a protection of workers, which is not an obstacle to the recruitment of those to whom it is intended to protect. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In this context, a few words to Mr Koppler. They have said that worker protection also ensures job security. In this regard, I really want to contradict you, because you have built up employment barriers through the policies of the past years, through a genuinely overly high level of worker protection for those who want to protect you. In the end, by not accepting appropriate protective measures in the apprenticeship field, you have prevented entrepreneurs from recruiting apprentices. For years, therefore, the entrepreneurs have not hired apprentices, because the apprentice has not brought anything for the company at all. Payment has increased more and more, at the same time the protection provisions have been expanded more and more, and therefore the entrepreneur has considered whether to recruit apprentices at all. The same applies to the area of the disabled. Unfortunately, they have repeatedly refrained from talking with the disabled associations about how to achieve a better disability setting, while maintaining protection. In fact, it is not even in the public service that the disabled are being recruited. There are 3 000 disabled persons in the public service. I believe that the debate must be really differentiated. This, Mr Steindl, is also not a matter of playing out a group against the other, which is completely wrong, but it is a question of finally practicing meaningful workers' protection in Austria. [[Complaints with the liberals]] I would like to accuse you, Mrs Minister – and also you from SPÖ and ÖVP – that you are not even honest with the protection of workers. There is a list of occupational diseases, and you have been delaying the adaptation for years, preventing current occupational diseases from being included in this list because you do not want so many workers to receive more from the general accident insurance an invalidity pension or other payments because they are harmed by one of these occupational diseases. If you are really serious about worker protection, you should also ensure that this catalogue of occupational diseases is up-to-date, so that all those who suffer from occupational disease receive support from the General Insurance Institute. You don't do that! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It has also been mentioned more often today that there are various provisions of protection for workers employed in the Federal Republic of Germany and for those in the private sector. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We, the liberals, have already submitted at least three applications for equal treatment of workers in the federal and private sectors. You have always voted against our request, and I therefore do not believe all that you are presenting today, namely that there must be a similar protection for all areas. [[Complaints with the liberals]] Minister! If you say again today that large and small enterprises must ensure the same protection of workers, then that is true, but where are the public servants, where is the duty of the public employer to create the same protection provisions, as in the private sector? There's more you need to get used to. You're saying that's not what you're saying. Your area, but after all, your vote in the Council of Ministers has a huge weight, and you have to work to ensure that the public employer is as committed as the private employer. He's being harassed by devils, while, for example, in the federal area, the staff have to work in potentially dangerous file camps, the windows can't be opened, the ventilation is not right, and what else do I know? But nothing is done at all. There is no doubt about it. We are, of course, free movement for workers' protection, but it must be useful that it should not be overlaid by such many bureaucratic obstacles that it causes entrepreneurs to refuse to recruit workers.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e3146	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e3168	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Mrs Partik-Pablé, what you have done to protect apprentices and to prevent the disabled, cannot be left in the room. If it were true that bureaucratic and strong workers' protection would prevent the employment of apprentices or disabled persons in Austria, this would also have to apply to the Federal Republic of Germany and Switzerland. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Of course! The absolute termination protection!]] These countries have exactly the same problems in the employment of apprentices and also in the employment of disabled people. You know just as well as I do that the tax on the disabled is crucial to ensuring that the disabled are not recruited. That is the reason – and not the protection of workers! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: No, the absolute termination protection! Read OGH's judgment! The absolute termination protection is counterproductive!]] He does not prevent anyone from recruiting a disabled person, nor does he prevent anyone from recruiting an apprentice. I come to the peculiar, ladies and gentlemen, and the real thing is good worker protection, which has already been established several times. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] Mr Haigermoser! Not from you, for you don't understand! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been stressed by some Members that good workers' protection is not only important and useful for employees but also for businesses, and that is the real point we should look forward to. Do we have good worker protection in Austria or not? I do share the criticism of our workers' protection: He's not good, he could be better. But, and that's the difference to the Liberal Forum, I mean, that's not the law, it's the poor implementation of the law. We have in the law numerous regulations of empowerment which have not yet been implemented. The law hangs in the air, and we have a poor implementation, which has already been said in the debate, for example by the accident insurance institution, which should actually carry out an important task in terms of worker protection, but cannot and does not want to exercise, because the Minister of Finance intervenes every year in the cash register of the accident insurance institution and takes out the funds intended for prevention in order to reorganise the budget. This is the problem with the protection of workers, which we have here in this country: that the necessary task of preventing the protection of workers is not seen, is not recognized as an important task - even from the business side. The reason is that the money for the costs does not have a mesh and costs are in other areas. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Most accidents do not happen at work, most accidents happen during leisure time!]] If accident insurance fails and does not carry out prevention, then health insurance pays! However, this is wrong and leads us to have a great deal of the problems we are discussing elsewhere in the field of pension insurance. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Not the accidents at work are the problem, but the accidents of leisure!]] There are a large number of early invalids in the construction sector, which has already been addressed. Look at the numbers of accidents in the construction area! We are not very good at this in Europe. That's where we're right down there. It looks extremely bad for Austria, also in comparison with Switzerland and the Federal Republic of Germany. Look at this! I can also give you examples. In the construction area, we still have up to 40 or 50 kilograms – in contrast to other countries; I think it is now being changed – to carry heavy cement bags, although that ruins the movement device, the support device. In the construction area, cement may still be used in Austria, which causes severe skin eczema. Other countries have rehabilitated this, other countries have made progress in this respect and have eliminated these risk factors. There is no cost of treatment, there is no cost of sickness, accident pensions and early retirement. In Austria, we haven't done anything about this. And this is also – I am sorry to have to say that – the economy, which has not yet come to the fore, that reasonable worker protection can also be in the interests of the economy. Perhaps this will not directly affect the business environment, because no one will be able to argue that any prevention, any additional prevention measure, will first of all cause costs. We also do not claim that this costs nothing. But it is on a permanent basis, as a result of declining numbers of accidents, declining numbers of occupational diseases, declining numbers of early retirements due to long-term invalidity and, and, You could save there. Therefore: Do you understand the opportunity that lies in good worker protection, ladies and gentlemen from the government parties, but also from the Liberal Forum?
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e3254	Please note the speaking time!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e3269	Accept this challenge!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e3300	Mrs Sophie Bauer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e3324	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If the Liberal Forum today highlights the costs of the Workers' Protection Act, I must say: You also did not understand that it also brings benefits to the employer. I would therefore like to remind you of the importance of the Workers' Protection Act to all. The Employment Protection Act was adopted under the EU Directives for the purpose of health and accident prevention at work for self-employed persons in the Austrian economy. The importance of this Workers' Protection Act will be demonstrated by facts and figures from a study by the Chamber of Labour, which shows that the Workers' Protection Act also brings substantial benefits to the employer. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Since 1995 there has been a welcome trend change in businesses. The employer's obligation to identify all existing risks and hence the obligation to prevent risks has been identified as important. In any case, it is clear from the facts and figures that the complaints from the economic circles and also from Mr Peter regarding the administrative additional costs of risk assessment and assessment. If there were 172,044 cases in 1994, they could already be reduced by 5,361 cases by the entry into force of the Workers' Protection Act in 1995. In 1995, the decline was already 14,569 cases. According to calculations by the General Insurance Institute, each single recognised insurance case cost the holding an average of 27 000 p. In 1994 this amounted to 4.65 billion schilling. In 1995 it was already around 150 million schillings less, with 400 million schillings less in 1996. This means that, in 1995 and 1996, the Austrian companies were able to reduce their costs by 550 million schilling due to accidents at work. Ladies and gentlemen! In view of these figures, I am convinced that the sad part of the economy will also understand the benefits of these provisions. The Federal Minister has already pointed out that in 1994 the economy suffered a damage of around 30 billion schillings. This damage could be reduced by 3.3 billion schilling in 1995 and 1996. However, it is very important that the cooperation between the Chamber of Labour, the Chamber of Commerce and the General Insurance Institute works well in order to provide additional assistance to enable improvements in operational implementation. The employers must also be interested in preventing accidents in order to create safe jobs. The removal of all existing risks at the workplace results in satisfactory employees and has a cost-effective effect on the entrepreneur. Ladies and gentlemen! I am very glad to be able to work in a farm where worker protection is a top priority. Our product does not bring very high profits. Nevertheless, it will continue to be the task of the Social Democrats to continue to force and expand workers' protection – in the interests of all those involved.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e3372	The next speaker is Mr Deputies Head. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e3394	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I believe that no reasonable person will turn against proper provisions to protect employees in our establishments if these provisions, the measures laid down therein, are in line with the principle of proportionality of what is required and with what can thus be achieved in the operation. But who, please, defines what is reasonable and what is appropriate? Are these trade union officials who, as they were to be heard on the radio in early days, let American Bill – I don't know him – make important calls and tell the American Bill that he needs five jobs to feed his family and have no social security? Is it those who want to suppress from the outset any reasonable discussion about what is proportionate and appropriate with this image of an enemy and with the cult of social reduction? - I don't think so. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Helmut Peter, I am with you on the point of employee protection law, especially with regard to the novelle that entered into force in 1995; it was possible to repair some of the supple provisions God was, in part, already. But there is also this demand, which the entrepreneurs of course welcome, for your part, embedded in a liberal social policy, which, for example, provides a model of basic provision for all, separated from the principle of income and employment, thus simply throwing overboard the incentive of performance, which I believe is necessary in every system and which you otherwise defend. So this too is part of liberal social policy, and I reject this part and with me reject the ÖVP quite clearly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What is the basic condition for employment and prosperity, ladies and gentlemen? – It is skilled, successful entrepreneurs, and we have such in Austria thanks to God in very large numbers. But what they need is a framework for their activity so that they can continue to carry out their activities in Austria and are not required to do so in other countries. But it is also becoming increasingly important: the mood of economic activity. It is also crucial for business decisions. It's not just about the pen. Entrepreneurs also look at the trend, look at the political understanding of a country, see if, once I call it, social-democratic principles prevail, which, in general, have an overriding regulatory approach to the regulation of framework conditions. In addition, the power requirement of the ÖGB – for example, the flexibility of working time system – does not make it possible to solve the problems in a subsidiary way where they are very individual, namely in the enterprises. No, it didn't go without the power factor ÖGB, so KV regulation. Or, for example, the Liberals; I have already said something about their social policy understanding. Mrs. Federal Minister! For example, if you mention the successes of a company such as Hydro Aluminium Nenzing from my home country, I do not think that this is a good argument for the intensification of the Workers' Protection Act which we made in 1994 for 1995. They have set the example of a period which reached 1995 in which the company could reduce the number of accidents at work to almost zero, in an area which is not harmless. This law, that is, these more stringent provisions, has not yet been able to take effect. This success could be achieved from the very correct understanding of this company that reasonable worker protection, of course, also makes a business sense. I think that is exactly where we should continue if we now discuss a further step. There are very concrete proposals for further adapting this law to practice. And that's what it's all about. It is not about reducing protection, but about adapting this law to practice. We should consider exactly what these companies – namely, voluntarily! – have already done before this overstretched intensification, for example!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e3460	The next speaker is Mrs Mares Rossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e3484	High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! I do not want the impression that Austrian businesses are paralysed as paralysed and migrated abroad because of an overburdened law on workers' protection. No, with us it is the sum of all things, the sum of all horrors that make life difficult for us! A study shows that under 20 industrial nations in terms of free economic development Austria is already in the final position. A paralyzing bureaucracy weakens the location of Austria. Austria has cut off the worst in the areas of state influence and regulation. That is why the government is called upon to finally avoid this total blockade and paralysis of Austria's economic location. This can also be seen in the self-employed rate: Austria is in Europe with a self-employed rate of 6.3 percent. In Austria, 150 000 new businesses would have to be set up in order to reach at least the OECD average. In an international comparison, Austria is indisputably cutting off. As an example, only the trade regulations are mentioned. All small and small plants in Austria are subject to business authorisation. In Austria, for example, 15 000 commercial procedures a year – Mr. Colleague will know this – are in fact 6 000 in Germany and only 360 in England. These are the problems we have to deal with. The new trade regulation has been sold as a facilitation in all sectors. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Is she too!]] She is a difficult one, Mrs Colleague, which is a huge difficulty both for the commercial authority and for businesses, for so far we have... [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: No! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] So far, we have had to overcome obstacles until we finally opened a farm. Now new obstacles have been created in case one wants to stop a farm. In other words, a holding cannot even be shut down if the entrepreneur wants to do so. That's our problem! - No, that's only possible with a notice. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Of course!]] [[Abg. Head: This legal certainty many companies want!]] That means: The Authority must act. Only when the authority has acted can I close my operation. We've already brought it that far in Austria. But that's not all. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: This legal certainty solves liability for companies!]] The provisions on the protection of workers also include – and this has not been mentioned at all today – a tremendous threshold of inhibition in the night work of women. In the coalition, it has been announced so often that this will be corrected. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: That's right! That's right!]] – Nothing has been fixed at all! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That even leads so far – Mrs Minister, listen to me, you may be interested in that! – that your red party colleague and Styrian finance councillor, Mr Ressel, says that they should promote businesses that are off-site abroad. Steirian businesses are already moving to Slovenia because the ban on night work for women especially in Styria has already become an obstacle threshold. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This applies to high-tech and electronic jobs for highly qualified women with good pay. Women are not allowed to work there at night; as a result, the farms are seizing. The second fatal consequence is that firms from other sectors are recruiting skilled workers, absorbing them, and we no longer have skilled workers in the industry. Minister! That's the miscarriage with the night work ban for women you have to answer. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Apart from that, as a woman, it is an immense discrimination if you are not allowed to work as a woman when you want to. No one is forced to work at night; but many women with small children or adult children who are out of the house would be very happy to work and earn well at night. That's what you said! But that's where you totally fail! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Austria is also not competitive in tax terms! As long as, especially in tourism, in Austria, 28 percent of taxes are payable for a beer, but in Italy only 6 percent, I warn against the introduction of the euro. The date of the introduction of the euro is also premature for tourism! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We are not competitive with our fiscal frameworks, but we are comparable in this way! If we get comparable, it will be a big problem for Carinthia, especially when the Gösser beer in Udine costs 2.50 euros, but at Wörthersee 4.50 euros. Mr Haselsteiner! I have to say that I am laughing! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: He doesn't produce anything in Carinthia! He's just buying more cable cars!]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] That is why we liberals are also in favour of a postponement of the introduction of the euro as long as the...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e3644	Please note the speaking time! (Parliament adopted the
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e3659	Finally, I would like to say to you: Minister! Stop the shocks! Finally, stop the policy of prevention, even in the form of overrun workers' protection provisions, because only in this way can jobs be secured! That is what your trade union colleagues say behind your hand.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e3689	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Petrovic. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e3711	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I listened very carefully to the previous speakers. I hope that the competent Federal Minister and the representatives of the Socialist Group will remain at least in relation to the announcements and statements they have made here, or perhaps even improve them. On other points, Mrs Federal Minister, in which you and the trade union have given in, you should, I think, carry out an evaluation urgently. We have heard the same argument regarding flexibilisation and reduction of workers' rights in connection with working time regulations. These have been "liberalized" without social accompanying measures – under quotations. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Head.]] And what happened? – An explosion of socially no longer minor service relationships, as you know, and that in a wage difference between women and men, which is more than 40 percent. That didn't make any improvement. This has no longer brought jobs, but it has brought further and dramatic discrimination against women. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Here I would really expect an evaluation before perhaps following some pressure to follow the next unthinked steps. For worker protection: I am always listening to speakers from the Liberal Group whose arguments do not differ from the arguments of the Liberal Group, which is all so bureaucratic and cumbersome. – Here is the legislator, we are the legislators. I have to say that I do not know a detailed proposal from you that would go towards the removal of these bureaucracies. We Greens have very probably also complained in some respects that certain regulations are too cumbersome and too bureaucratic. We have done this in particular in relation to environmental protection, and we have suffered the consequences. We have, in fact, presented a draft law on a single environmental plant law, without evading the protection provisions in favour of the environment in favour of health. I can almost no longer hear that it is always very nebulos said: It's so bureaucratic! This costs jobs, without an appropriate legislative initiative... [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Peter.]] Mr Peter! You're part of the legislation! Why don't you make a suggestion and tell me what it's all about? But I've got a very different suspicion here. I have the suspicion that at the expense of the social and environmental levels, you simply want to minimize your operating costs. That's the true background and nobody else! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] One adds: I am always amazed how the labour inspection, the Austrian - and few know - has only about 300 employees, succeeds in doing what it is doing. That the employed staff are at the limit of their ability to do so, I believe, is to be read from the figures. I would like a clear commitment from this House not to be saved in this area, because this would be too expensive for all of us. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would also like to have another great concern, and I believe that we should think in this direction. The environmental poison – and therefore it is also a central green concern – does not come from anywhere, but, of course, comes from work processes. In part, they are inevitable processes, but we have to do as best we can according to the state of the art. I therefore believe that it is urgent to try to harmonise this confusion at different limits, the maximum concentration of work, the maximum concentration of emissions and emissions, in the sense of the lowest possible standards. I think that the workers have a right to do so. Implementing powers should also be part of the labour inspection, i.e. labour inspections should not detour through the district authorities. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] I think that would be an essential step...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e3783	Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e3798	This would be an essential step towards debureaucratisation, cost savings and combined environmental and worker protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e3829	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Hazelsteiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e3850	Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It is interesting once again to see how perfectly we can talk to each other. So let me first point out: The cost reduction system in the case of an accident at work in Austria – even if the entrepreneur is a really terrible, bad person – requires a vital selfish interest in avoiding this accident. Even if They agree on all the positive characteristics, saying that he is not a human being, that he is self-interested until the excess, that he is only bent on surveying the poor workers, as a result of the cost-bearing system, that it must be his first and primary interest to avoid accidents at work, because he, ladies and gentlemen, has to pay the costs in that country. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] That is why I do not think we need to talk about it, Mr Koppler, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, that there is a contrast of interests here. It is also not a matter of playing, but you will have to take note that this view is seen from this point of view, and even if one not only uses social competence, but also has it as an entrepreneur – and we use it for ourselves – is a key question. There must be a discussion of the way forward. The path you have taken, ladies and gentlemen of the Coalition Government is a bad way. They have created an employee protection law, which is actually not feasible first and, secondly, is simply shocking in its cost-benefit analysis. There is no direct relative benefit in relation to these costs. As an entrepreneurship representative – and I hope you, too, as an employee representative – we will still be allowed to demand that we decide rules that have a reasonable relationship between costs and benefits, and not that we will not throw out money for nothing and again and, on the contrary, create a sham legitimation and say: Workers' protection has already been taken care of. It would be like saying, The disabled are taken care of anyway because there is this famous recruitment law. That's why we don't have to worry anymore. – This is the Curse the laws of protection that one can also, so to speak, legitimize this chapter and say: It's protected by the state. It is no longer my entrepreneurial concern or my entrepreneurial, ethical commitment to ensure that something goes on. And that's bad, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Mrs. Federal Minister! One thing is a special treat. You and the colleagues from the ÖVP say: It is really our concern that the public service should be involved. – Mrs Federal Minister! At least in this house I would ask you: Save us this! Point one: You could have involved him, you could have involved him every day because you have a majority in this house. But you can't do it on the other side because you need a rehabilitation package. They needed another budget-accompaniment law. This law can never be implemented in the public service, because you cannot bear the costs without the Maastricht criterion having exploded. And you know that! [[Acclaim at the Liberal Forum and Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This House has to admit that you are making two laws, namely the laws for others and the laws that you have to represent yourself. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Steindl.]] Yes, you too, Mr Steindl, belong to this coalition. This is the real cause and also an nuisance for the population, because it feels it. You could never implement these laws. You must be glad, ladies and gentlemen, if you can eliminate overtime in individual areas that are not done. You're celebrating that as a success. How would you like to finance trust-guards in large numbers, exempts and so on? – That’s why you don’t introduce it. If you, Mrs Federal Minister, are still taking practical examples, then I must say - my colleague, I think - that has already been said - these are bad examples. The progress made by Austrian entrepreneurs has been achieved in spite of this worst of all laws, namely the Workers' Protection Act, and not because of this law. They have been achieved before, and they have been achieved because, among other things, it is also – thank God not exclusively – an entrepreneurial concern to avoid accidents at work, which is intended to ensure a worker protection law.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e3934	No one is reporting on this. The current hour is therefore over. Declaration by the Federal Minister for the Interior
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e3956	We now come to the statement by the Federal Minister for the Interior, mentioned at the beginning of today's meeting, on the state of the art of the investigations to clarify the bombings of recent years. Mr Stadler referred to the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e3979	Mr President. High house! § 18 para. 3 of our Rules of Procedure Act provides that the National Council may require the presence of members of the Federal Government, regardless of the area of competence currently in force. It is therefore not expressly delegated to a jurisdiction. Since the subject-matter of what is being reported today by Mr Schlögl, and what is going to take place today in the debate, falls seriously into the time phase of the competence of Federal Minister of the Interior, on behalf of my group, I should like to make the following request: Request of Deputies Mag. Stadler and colleagues The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Minister Schlögl's statement on the current state of the art of the investigation on the investigation of bombing terrorism calls for the presence of the Federal Minister of State. I would ask you to agree, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e4027	The application is admissible. I shall vote on it immediately. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree with Mr Stadler's request for a sign. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Where is the ÖVP? Kiss!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Pants full of blacks!]] – This is the minority, the request is rejected. That is why, as planned, I give the floor to Mr Karl Schlögl, Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, to his statement. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e4079	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I have decided to make a statement before the House - and I am very grateful for the fact that Members of Parliament also allow this statement - to give you a recent interim report far away from all speculation on the actual state of investigation of the security authorities in connection with the Grolla incident and on the connection with the bombings in Austria between 1993 and 1996. ==References====External links== ==References== There were six series in which a total of 25 letter bombs were circulated. In addition, pipe bomb attacks occurred in Klagenfurt, Oberwart and Stinatz. Four people were killed, 17 were seriously injured. – Dear ladies and gentlemen! Our whole compassion was and applies to the victims of this wave of terror and to their families. [[General condolences.]] A total of nine letters with different confessions have been sent since the beginning of the attack series, in which the term "BBA – Bajuwarian Liberation Army" appeared again and again. ==References====External links== On 2 October 1997, two gendarmerie officials were alerted to Franz Fuchs by an important reference from the population. These two officials, shrines and blacks, who have behaved perfectly in this matter, tried to carry out a personal control. Franz Fuchs fired a bomb at this one. Since this event, the Austrian executive has determined with great effort and commitment to Franz Fuchs and possible fellow perpetrators. I can tell you that until today the authorities have been able to collect many depressing evidence against Franz Fuchs. The investigations are more and more confirming the urgent suspicion that Franz Fuchs is either the individual perpetrator or at least a dangerous associate of the group responsible for the bombing attacks in Austria. Many of the items and materials that were secured in the search of the house support this acceptance by the investigative authorities. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to give you a very detailed explanation of the amount of evidence I have received so far. In addition to electronic components, various explosive-suspected items were found, in particular a dangerous explosive trap, several explosive-filled pipes, a plastic bottle filled with explosives, other explosives, burned batteries and coils, two alarm clocks modified as a ignition trigger, and a trigger electronics for explosives were secured, depleted and investigated. A document, written with microscribing, bears the text "We defend ourselves. BBA. Friedrich of the Dispute". Another document, written with conifer, bears the names "Friedrich, Gerold, Hofer, Mahrenberg, Marbod, Oadilo, Primas and Starhemberg". A machine-written, handwritten and unfinished concept of a confessional letter is currently being studied more closely and compared with the already known confessional letters. However, the previous investigations point to equality. The typeface of a secure machine-written text shows a font identical to that of the Ollersdorf Confessor's Letter of February 1995. The found handwritten records of Franz Fuchs mainly show electrical and electronic circuits, electrical series and detailed descriptions for the construction of letter bombs and explosive devices. A checklist for the construction of a "Gerold" bomb was secured. The schematics correspond to those of the V series letter bomb of December 1995 and the Oberwart blast of February 1995. In addition, electronic components are particularly highlighted on the schematics, mentioned for the first time by the BBA in the letter of confession to the Slovenian Foreign Minister Peterle of October 1994. A schematic plan, as defined by "Rohr", is largely in line with the August 1994 Rohrbombe of Klagenfurt. Notes on mechanical change as well as changes in the basic colours of the components can also be found. Similar changes have been found at the V series letter bombs, the Oberwart and Stinatz explosions and the Klagenfurt pipe bomb. Further evidence was found after investigation of other objects suspected of explosives. The initial primer found after cutting the secured ignitions is a very fine-crystalline silver fulminate. Most of the BBA's explosives also used silver fulminate. A lichen-like mass could be identified as a mixture of nitrocellulose and nitroglycerin. Such mixtures were included in the series IV letter bombs of October 1995, series V of December 1995 and series VI of December 1996. Found, with high probability of even synthesized nitroglycerin containing only small amounts of synthesise-side products, corresponds to the suspected production and quality of the I series of letter bombs of December 1993 and the IV, V and VI series. The installation of the trigger wires of the I, II and IV letter bombs as well as the construction of the IV series are shown in a construction manual written with pencil. The transmission wires of ignitions show the same diameter and composition of paint wire insulation as those of the letter bombs series V. My very honored Ladies and gentlemen! In addition, we have found a formula for calculating in a simple way the prime number used to produce the encrypted letter of September 1996. In addition, the PC in the Franz Fuch’s apartment, consisting of tower, screen, keyboard and needle printers, as well as 187 disks, on which mostly mathematical formulas and calculations can be found were ensured. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In his statements in the previous hearings, Franz Fuchs has admitted up to date to be a member of the BBA, to have given up three confession letters to lawyers, to have purchased diskettes, envelopes and stamps for the BBA and to have traveled around as provocateur on behalf of the BBA, so that the police are distracted and the BBA can carry out their work inconceivably. In addition, he indicates that BBA employs secretaries, chemists and electricians. He adapted and sharpened those bombs that were found with him, but not for later use, but for self-protection. If he had found him, he would have blown this and himself into the air. Finally, he admitted that he was number 3. It should be noted, however, that foxes from hearing to hearing have different versions of his confession. The researchers of the Ministry of the Interior believe that Fox plays his role as a perpetrator very consciously, but at the same time points to what we cannot prove to him at the moment. For the public, the rightful question now arises whether Mr. Fuchs has been a single culprit. Much, very much, especially the prepared perpetrator profile of the Ministry of the Interior, speaks for it. However, some clues, but also missing puzzle stones in the overall picture, also point to a performance by a small group. It is therefore too early today to make a clear statement about whether Franz Fuchs acted alone or not. The investigations are therefore conducted in both directions. For a final clarification of the letter bomb attacks, we still have some open questions to solve. With the help of the population, we hope to clarify in particular the following questions: How did fox finance the construction of the bombs and the necessary infrastructure? Where was a laboratory or workshop with measuring equipment and computer technology available to him? Where could he perform a media evaluation? Did he have access to historical literature, and what social contacts did he have? High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! This is the current state of the investigation as far as it can be published for criminal and tactical reasons. With all understanding of the greatest transparency, however, I ask the public and all the media to leave the Austrian executive in peace on this issue. Not every new search knowledge can be published or confirmed. Some of us, which is suddenly being treated as a new trail, have been very intensively persecuted by us for some time. I therefore ask you, in the interests of the restless reconnaissance of time and rest. The Special Commission is working perfectly. Let us give her the appropriate confidence so that this crime can be resolved without delay. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP as well as the Liberal Forum.]] In my statement, however, I would also like to comment on the work of the Security Executive and my two predecessors. The Austrian security executive, who at that time had experienced a significant modernisation boost and extensive staff increase under the then Minister Löschnak, was not yet able to respond to this kind of challenge when this human-respective series of attacks began in December 1993. The anti-terrorism unit, which was entrusted with the investigation of this case, had hardly gained any experience in this area of crime control, and was not adequately prepared in the technical field in relation to this type of serious crime. In addition, it was initially primarily radical, right-wing groups that were responsible for the attacks. But already Minister Lösnak stressed that such investigations would have to be open in all directions. The high expectations in the Radl and Binder process and finally the outcome of this procedure shaken public confidence in the investigation work. Therefore, Minister Löschnak focused on structural transformation and increased technical upgrading. The procurement of state-of-the-art resources has been launched. Furthermore, the equipment of the compensation service has been brought to the state-of-the-art technical standard. Similarly, the crime centre and the crime scene were upgraded. The procedures for acting after attacks have been standardised and cooperation between the special units and officials of the secondary departments has been improved. Under Minister One was transferred to a special commission in 1995. On the one hand, this could improve compliance with confidentiality, on the other hand, the transition from a purely state police officer to a criminal police investigation. This measure was accompanied by various changes in the field of senior officials. In the investigation work, it was assumed that he or the perpetrators were assigned to a certain political spectrum, but one began to work independently of such orientations. [[Abg. May. Stadler: (To Abg. Dr. Lösnak) Now it's you, not the One! Now it was the dead end of the night!]] Not only was the communication network strengthened within the Austrian security authorities in order not to let information be lost, but foreign police units such as the German Federal Criminal Office were also involved in the investigations. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Such a criticism of Löschnak!]] A network was also held at the level of the Federal Ministries. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: One is protected and extinguished!]] An Interministerial Commission has also been created. High house! I note, therefore, that both Federal Minister Lösnak and Federal Minister Dr. Caspar have strived to create the best working conditions for the investigators and the special commission, which allowed the members of the Special Commission to expect success and under which the members of the Special Commission could work professionally. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Mr Löschnak! Why don't you praise me? Now you're to blame at once!]] [[Call the SPÖ: Now be quiet!]] Caspar One has worked with full commitment and created the framework conditions for criminal police processing of bomb attacks away from any political orientation. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: You don't believe that yourself, Minister!]] No perpetrator profile was suppressed, nor was one-sided political arrest. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: We will prove that to you!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Many measures to clarify this case, which were strongly pursued and implemented in my term of office, have been developed under the Federal Ministers of Löschnak and One. Today the situation is different from at the beginning of the bombings. The equipment of the units with state-of-the-art technology is largely complete. The officials are highly motivated, well trained and now rich in experience. Communication and cooperation work well. The police work in Galla was proof of this. The local journalists unanimously praised the professional course of the security forces. In summary, it can be found that the Austrian security executive is well equipped to effectively oppose terrorist actions of any kind in the future. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! With the arrest of Franz Fuchs and recent advances in the investigations, Austria has taken an important step in combating terrorism. It has been argued many times in recent days that we only owe this success to chance. That's only partly true. We owe this success, on the one hand, to the important indication from the population and to the excellent and rapid response of the local army, on the other hand, but also to the tireless detailed work of the Special Commission, which in recent years has set up an increasingly narrower network for the perpetrators or the perpetrators. After final clarification, I will present a detailed and comprehensive report which will also prove that we have been considering regional restrictions on the Leibnitz Basin and the adjacent districts for some time. I am also convinced that the comprehensive information work of the media as well as the announced Raster Enforcement have also contributed significantly to this preliminary partial success on terrorism. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Much has been written and speculated about the backgrounds of bomb terror and the potential perpetrator circle. There are still many questions to be answered and – I am sure – to be found. But today, let me highlight an answer with all the clarity: I mean the wise and wise response of the Austrians to terror. Politically motivated violence, regardless of which side it comes from, regardless of whether it supposedly pursues an overarching or only wants to spread fear and terror, has no chance in our Republic. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] No one will succeed in yelling at the foundations of our democracy and republic. But the sunny response of the Austrians is also a clear signal for me to all the eternal and to all intolerant people in our country. [[Abg. May. Stadler: In your own party!]] In the scene of the perpetrator or the perpetrator, members of certain groups of people and people who worked together harmoniously. With their attitude of clear rejection, the Austrians have made a clear commitment to Austria in all its ethnic, religious and linguistic diversity, for an Austria, ladies and gentlemen, in which all people can live in dignity and security. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP and the Liberal Forum]] [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP and the Liberal Forum.]] The Federal Government will therefore continue its efforts to unscrupulously Enlighten bomb terror with all intensity and continue to maintain its clear line against any kind of terror. It continues to count on the work of citizens and all democratic forces and parties. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] The BBA's perpetrators have failed to succeed with their delusions. In Austria, terror through the bombs has not achieved its goals. Neither the cowardly attacks nor the abstract theories and pamphletes have been able to harm or destabilize democracy in Austria. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] One has tried to draw a blood trail through all the layers of society and a variety of dedicated organizations. It was intended to meet those who put their life’s work in the service of humanity. High house! Let me conclude by saying one more clearly – I am convinced that this is shared and expected by the citizens of our country: The fight against terrorism is not suitable for any party-political actions. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP and the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Insight comes very late!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Late insight!]] The challenges can and will only be dealt with together, regardless of our socio-political and party-political membership. [[Congratulation with SPÖ and ÖVP]] Now, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen, it is important to put the common and not the dividing one in the foreground.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e4338	I would like to thank the Federal Minister. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e4360	Before we go into the debate on the statement just made, I announce that consensus has been reached on the following speaking times: The debate on this declaration, as well as the debates on the agenda for today's meeting, was agreed on a total day-blocking period of nine "Vienna hours". This gives rise to the following speaking times: SPÖ 135 minutes, ÖVP 126 minutes, Freedom 117 minutes, Liberal Forum and Greens per 81 minutes. On the other hand, are there any objections? - That's not the case. That's what it's decided to do. Discussion on the declaration by the Federal Minister for the Interior
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e4387	We are now entering the debate on the statement. The first speaker is Mr Stadler. The speaking times are in themselves limited by 20 minutes. Mr Stadler wishes a 15-minute voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e4411	Mr President. High house! Federal Minister! Today you have had to eat a whole kilo of cream for breakfast in order to achieve what you had to leave out of the bomb terror in your speech of exculpation to your immediate predecessor and to the appeal, but the party policy had to leave out of the bomb terror. [[Complaints with the liberals]] Who was it, then, who for three years brought the party policy into this bombing causa? – Your own comrades, Mr. Federal Minister! I'm sorry you've got to stand here today to cash the peel for it. They were all there. I can give you dozens of examples – Mr Leikam, you can say that Your speech manuscript corrects – as you have brought in party politics – until the conclusion that a court in this country has passed the judgment that the penitentiary of right-wing extreme terror, for which there is no evidence to date – you have also not delivered – is Jörg Haider. - An Austrian court! [[Abg. That's the way it is!]] It was your policy, ladies and gentlemen, that enabled these judgments. It was your policy that only aims to meet the liberals and shake this bomb terrorism party-politically – I underline: party-politically, Mr Minister – so that you can You are not the head, Mr. Fuhrmann, you were there too – your predecessor and your party can use this bomb terror to hit political change. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Swimmling: Never heard of independent dishes?]] All of a sudden, everything's different. Now it suddenly turns out to be a comrade. So fast, ladies and gentlemen, get your own propaganda. [[Abg. Who's a comrade?]] It was a comrade! So quickly you get your own propaganda. The man comes from a socialist, from an arch-socialist parent house, like a school colleague and also from his former employer say. The father was a councillor – without me wanting to blame the father. You can also correct your manuscript in this regard. The father is not always responsible for his son, but the socialization is interesting. [[Abg. Leikam: But you said that!]] Mr Leikam! I wouldn't have heard your Suada if the father had been a FPÖ parish. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I guarantee you, then, as in other cases, Sippenhaftung would be documented from this Rostra on the agenda. - Out of your mouth! [[Abg. Leikam: There are enough examples!]] I would not have liked to hear what has been said if it had been shown that there is a connection with a free environment. But it is all socialist; everything from A to Z is social-democratic, socialist, to the late-68s. That's what a schoolmate says, we don't say. The following can be read in a serious daily newspaper: "We were real 68s." There are some in these rows. Real 68s! Politically left-wing, says his school colleague Reinhold H., ladies and gentlemen! I don't want to know what's going on, but he would have said something in our direction, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Swimmlein: Which direction do you belong to?]] Unbelievable things must be heard, things that we have had to let go for three years now! [[Abg. Son of a bitch: 38s!]] For three years we have had to listen to the most incredible things, not only here in Austria, but also on an international stage. We could read that we are directly responsible for bomb terror in Austria. A daily newspaper with colored presentation – I copied it so that the pink color does not fade – writes: "Dr. Jörg Haiderand the dead of Oberwart." Now tell me whether the party policy is or not! Dr. Jörg Haiderand Oberwart! It was your comrades, Mr. Federal Minister! That was the ground that you prepared so that in this country – politically instrumentalized – a terror against the liberals could be staged. [[Complaints with the liberals]] Ladies and gentlemen! Think of the agitation that the Socialists have organised in the European Parliament, at the disadvantage of Austria's reputation, at the expense of the largest opposition party in Austria, because you can't stop us at the elections. This has also shown Upper Austria again. Don't stop at the constituencies! Mr Anschober. Don't laugh, your success in Upper Austria is an extremely modest one! It'd probably be better for you to cry. In any case, the perfide of this bomb terror is that it was your party, Federal Minister, who used this bomb-terrorism as a party-political agitation against the liberals. You have admitted yourself, ladies and gentlemen,... [[Unrest at the ÖVP.]] You from the Austrian People's Party do not need to be evocative there in the second row at all. What's his name on the back seat? [[Abg. Haigermoser: Back bankers!]] No, I mean it. I don't know if you're at the CV, but for a while, even the CV has been put on the socialist's indictment bank. Since they were not found in the liberals, they meant that it was probably the régime of the régime. But today the ÖVP praises industriously. Then it is said that no party political assignment, as if you had nothing more to do with the CV. There's a lot of Cver sitting inside here, and they also praise for being thrown. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I have here the recent annual report 1996 by the Federal Ministry of the Interior on Right-wing Extremism. It is significant that there is no such report on left-wing extremism. [[Interference of the Federal Minister Mag. Schlögl.]] I haven't gotten him yet. Send him to me once, Minister of State! There were 40 bombings in front of the attack series! A right-wing extremism report is being produced, but a left-wing extremism report has not yet been established. 40 bomb attacks before the series of letter bombs were not yet enough to bring out such a report. But, ladies and gentlemen, the interesting thing is to be found on page 25. That's what it says: As a forward-looking motive of these attacks, xenophobia should continue to be suspected. [[Abg. - Yes, what's the matter?]] Forward motive! So one now knows that there is a background motive, and yet one continues to produce and pretends that Xenophobia is the main motive here. Ladies and gentlemen! For the late 68s, for people who were foreigners, according to information from personal acquaintances, I have to suspect another insidious motive than xenophobia, as the diluted public should still be made wise. One ignores the fact that in this case it is a left-socialized, left-wing person, a late-68er. One even ignores his own reports of the Ministry of the Interior and continues to phase out something of a right-wing culprit. But the political principal, ladies and gentlemen, the House of Lords, is somewhere else, which is indeed with its predecessors. Please do not put Mr Lösnak to this shame to make him responsible for it now. That's what you did. Shall I quote it to you? – This is on page 12, if you may read it, and on page 13. On page 12, you say that one has finally passed to criminal police investigation. Did you not know that this must be done in the event of a crime? Does it have a master? One needed, Mr. Löschnak? – Your successor will blame you for this. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Löschnak was incomplete!]] Then the Minister goes on to say that in the investigation work it has been assumed to assign the perpetrators to a particular political spectrum, as if you had done it alone. [[Interference of the Federal Minister Mag. Schlögl.]] Federal Minister! Minister One was unsurpassed in political allocation and instrumentalization. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There was what Mr Lösnak has done in good faith, quite a little bit of a carpentry performance. He was the one who, on behalf of his party and with the approval of his party chairman Vrannitzky, led an evil political game. And for a year and a half, he has held back a perpetrator's profile – you can't discuss it away, I'll also bring you the evidence for it – which now turns out to be almost exact to Mr. Fuchs as the alleged main perpetrator. This has not only been said by Mr Grassl-Kosa on Sunday, but also by the Director-General for Public Security. He has literally said that the investigation work has been "inhibited". Now, of course, he has to send out something else. Now he sends out that there would never have been a disability, there would have been no disability. Ladies and gentlemen! But in the meantime he has also learned how the diluted reader of today's "Kronen Zeitung"... Federal Minister! I suppose you have already read the "Kronen Zeitung", you also have a special close relationship with the "Kronen Zeitung", your party president has this too, so you will probably already have read it at the "Kreide breakfast". [[Abg. Swimmling: With you it will be more the "Aula"!]] Ladies and gentlemen! There it says: After talks with One and Sika, the long-term conflict appears to be simple at first. . So Mr Sika was told what he had to say, in contrast to what he had said to the media before, not only on Sunday evening in the broadcast "To cause". For one and a half years, this criminal profile was deliberately suppressed, because it does not fit into that criminal profile, which Mr. Federal Minister has instrumentalized. Now consultations are under way with the Director-General for Public Security outside, now it is necessary to consult, these are probably the next conciliation talks. So maybe the gentlemen have the goodness to do this in front of the House and not in the back somewhere in the couloirs. Federal Minister! If you have the goodness, get the Director-General! Explain to us how that is possible! [[Abg. Dr. Haider: He just said what he said in the newspaper interview!]] That's right! One will have taught him now what he still has to dement from what he said before. It was indeed so – Mr Federal Minister, now you tell me that this is not true – that it was on 15 May. December 1996 in which already well-known "Kronen Zeitung" – a very serious daily newspaper – is the following: The Director-General for Public Security is in charge. You know why? – Because of mystery, Mr. Proclaiming a Director-General Sika, secret betrayal because he dared to go through a book so that at last the perpetrator's profile would come to the public, that perpetrator's profile, the Federal Minister has held back one for transparent reasons. That's it! Now comes the summit, now it will be interesting: Why has Mr Sika been led to dementate all of this and to say that there has been no hindrance to all of this? An interview is to be read in this evening's "NEWS". You know what Mr. Director-General Sika says there: I was put under mental pressure. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: That's huge!]] Read the APA, just before the pre-notification has appeared there. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: As in the GDR, as with the Stasi!]] I was put under mental pressure, and Mr President-in-Office Sika is quoted, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Mr Kiss! What's going on now? – You are also a victim of mental pressure. Mr. Khol put you under mental pressure, because a few hours ago Mr. Kiss was of the following opinion – I quote Kiss –: He - meant One - has the sole responsibility that the suspected letter bomber could not be captured earlier. For more than a year and a half, one has suppressed and shubbled the completely right profile of the perpetrator for political reasons, because the conclusions of this criminal profile were not in line with his political intentions. One therefore has the sole guilt, the sole guilt for the fact that the alleged perpetrator has been able to work on for years unblemishedly. – End of the quote, ladies and gentlemen! And then Mr. Kiss goes here and says, No, I'm going to reject today's distrust against one of the coalitions – that's what an interview partner told me about you – because Khol said we should not do that, because that's why the coalition is in danger. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Haider.]] Ladies and gentlemen! No one understands. They're going much further than I am. You say he's guilty, he's solely responsible. I didn't go that far. I still have several people in charge in the visor. He says he's solely responsible. – But today, in the vote on the motion for a censure, Mr Kiss will be beautifully sunk in his chair, entrenched behind his clubman Khol, who obviously also put him under mental pressure – as Mr Sika said: I was put under mental pressure. Ladies and gentlemen! These are states which cry out after an investigation committee. These are states in this Republic, which are crying out after a committee of inquiry. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The fact that information has gone out of this ministry that has caused the prosecutor Bassam Al Taher to leave the country in advance to disappear to Mexico is still undisputed. [[Abg. Oils: You!]] Yes, I thought that the upper Marxist was now pointing at me with his long finger. When I did the press conference, the "fine" Bassam Al Taher, your family comrade, had been in Mexico for 13 days. I don't know what you played a role in that. I do not know the Lord, I just know that he was able to disappear for 13 days due to the indiscretion of the Ministry of the Interior before I drew the public's attention to it. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Since we're already with the Austromarxists: The news dwindlers of this camp have contributed to the loss of approximately 200 million schillings to the taxpayer. Thousands of people in this country have been innocently criminalized, up to a giant in an old age home. – I can give you an example. Even a university professor in Innsbruck, 92 years old, has been criminalized because of the news destabilizers from the DÖW, from Mr Neugebauer to Mr. Kufner, a.k.a. Kessler, a.k.a. Ignaz Härtl, a book author, one of your family friends, a.k.a. Dr. Stern and Mr. Purtscheller, who even wrote the questions to the Greens in the club, which were then partially brought here in the house. Ladies and gentlemen! This is the attitude of these news-deviators, who have caused damage to the taxpayer of 200 million schilling – according to Mr. Director-General Sika – and have caused thousands of surveys, investigations and house searches – at the expense of innocent citizens. I would like to tell you a dramatic case, ladies and gentlemen: In Klagenfurt a couple's apartment has been stormed over the balcony. The wife sits in the wheelchair and is blind. Her husband was held in handcuffs during this storm action due to a diffamation from this camp. The woman suffered almost a heart attack and had to be sent to the hospital because she did not know what was going on at all because of the fact that she was blind. That was the environment that you made out of your way – with news-differences who did what was pleasing to Mr Einm. Political instrumentalization against the liberals, not clarifying it, was the priority concern, but only the political instrumentalization of this bomb terror! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Party Policy Instrumentization – Mr Federal Minister, take note of this! – it has come from your own camp. But I don't want people up there to be your camp, I'm not going that far, but that's enough of what's still there, according to quotations. I do not think you are going so far that you are so far to the left as this camp, but you have people in your party who have willingly danced after the pipe of this camp and also willingly used the entire EBT for this camp. Today, officials are still in top positions, Mr. Federal Minister, that is something you must be interested in – which has come across these news-deliveries – you know very well, Mr. Löschnak, who have been led around for years by these news-differences on the nose. That is why my group will be calling for an investigation committee today. It will be discussed at the end of this meeting. I will then provide detailed information. I call on the Federal Minister, in the context of a resolution, to release Mr One from his cabinet. Therefore, on behalf of my group, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! The ball is now with the Federal Chancellor. Mr. Klima cannot steal himself out of the affair as easily as possible. He took it as an inheritance mass. The Federal Chancellor must take note of the following: The more perpetrators are identified in bomb terror, the thicker the suspicion mass on the left and the more his own Mr. Federal Minister comes into a compromising light. [[Abg. Oillinger: Thank God we have you! Thank God we have you!]] [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] For some of the perpetrators, Mr. Schlögl, he has known for himself. He was in close contact with Mr Thaler, since he donated a donation for a trial against Dr. Jörg Haidersogar, and then he could no longer remember who Mr Thaler is. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! We will not yet have sung the last word in this sad trade fair on the political instrumentalization of bomb terrorism against the largest opposition party in this country.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e4779	The motion for a resolution, by Mr Magistrate, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Stadler is sufficiently supported and involved in the negotiations. Announcement of an application for the establishment of an investigative committee
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e4801	I declare that the honourable Members are allowed to do so. Stadler and comrades according to § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure have requested a Committee of Inquiry to examine further the legal and political responsibility of the Federal Minister Dr. Caspar A connection to the political instrumentalisation of bomb terrorism. There is also a desire by five Members to hold a debate on this request. According to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, the debate and the vote shall be held after completion of the agenda. We are now continuing in the debate. The next item is the speech by Mr Leikam. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e4837	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Before I begin my debate, I can inform you of an information which has been sent to our club during the morning of Mr Franz Vranitzky. I quote: "A release of the APA from today's day can be found in a statement by Mr Stadler that in my private apartment a conciliation meeting with Federal Minister One and Director General Sika had taken place in December of last year. I'm holding on to this: I have not conducted any such or similar conversation during the specified period or otherwise." This is a matter for the information and factual clarification of an accusation made by Mr Stadler, who in no way corresponds to the facts. [[Abg. Wabl: Was this the news-difference Stadler?]] High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Since December 1993, 25 letter bombs and three pipe bombs have pulled a bloody trail across our country. 4 dead, 17 in part The victims of this loathsome, unique crime in our Republic are seriously injured. In recent months and years, every Austrian will not only have asked himself the question of who might be behind these attacks. Mr. Franz Fuchs has been in prison since last week. I would no longer like to address the closer circumstances that led to his arrest. It has already been done in great detail by Mr Schlögl. I am very grateful to the Federal Minister for the Interior of Karl Schlögl that he has today provided Parliament with a very comprehensive, detailed report on this case. I am also very glad that his report also contained the necessary information on the huge share of the letter bomb investigation, in the investigations of these cases his two predecessors Dr. Franz Lösnakund Dr. Caspar. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Minister of the Interior Schlögl has clearly explained the tasks of Franz Löschnak, and he has also clearly identified the tasks of Dr. Caspar Einmin in this area. There were very important steps that have been taken and which have, in the end, certainly also led to the fact that many of the findings which were previously lacking in technical devices, in the absence of the necessary organization, but also in the absence of suitable personnel, could not be gained only now. The conversion of the arrest methods in the time of the Caspar Ministry One of the state police to criminal police, as she also presented in his statement, was a very important and essential step. At this stage, ladies and gentlemen, one has also assumed to assign the or the perpetrators – it is still not clear in what direction this is going here – to a certain political spectrum. It was supposed to be – that was the clear mission of Caspar at the time One – regardless of such orientations are worked out, and the investigations to the right, but also to the left, should be continued in all directions. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Stadler's spiritual greetings, which the Members of this House have to deal with today, and his immense conspiracy theories of the last days, which he has communicated about the media, about press releases of a staggering Austrian public – Mr Stadler, these conspiracy theories and your accusations have long exceeded the limit of good taste! [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Hat! Has!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Stadler! They miss all respect for the victims of accidents in your presentations! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Don't be offended! A socialist! You are responsible for Socialists!]] You, Mr Stadler, do not hesitate to bring in the completely broken parents of the alleged perpetrator in this case. You have done this again today from this speaker's point of view, Mr Stadler. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: This is immense!]] Just to support your left theory, every means is right, and whether it's still so bad. You proved this again today, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Solidarity! Friendship! Mr. Leikam! Socialist! Don't forget that!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] High house! Ladies and gentlemen! In an open society – in such a way we are, Mr Stadler – it may well be that the father is a National Socialist and the son is a good democrat. There can be a lot of that. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: What did you say at Schimanek? What did you say at Schimanek?]] You can also talk to them. I am grateful to you for this hölzl, Mr Haider. To date, they have not distanced themselves from the content of the statement of Schimanek junior, but have only defended the father, but not the content for which Schimanek junior has been condemned! [[Abg. Dr. Haider: There was nothing worth his father!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] I'll tell you once again: In an open society, it may well be common for the father to be a National Socialist and his son to be a good democrat. [[Abg. May. Stadler: So it is with you, I think, the case! Wasn't your father a National Socialist?]] But the same, my. Ladies and gentlemen, it may also be in our society that the father is a democrat, a good democrat, perhaps also a social democrat – I say so – a good social democracy and its son is against the democratic institutions of our rule of law, perhaps a terrorist. This can be the case in an open society. [[Abg. Scheibner: Three years ago we would have liked to hear that! Three years ago we would have liked to hear that!]] But, Mr Stadler, if you have only one spark – I suspect you don't have it – you will at least apologize to the perpetrator's parents or to his family for what you have done to them by your accusations! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: This is unheard of!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I appeal to the 41 Members of the Liberal Club, I call on you, ladies and gentlemen, to do so. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Because it's a socio, we have to apologize!]] I cannot imagine that you have all guided your thinking in the same way as Mr Stadler has shown here today. Mr President, you are a university professor, what do you say about the accusations raised here by your club colleague Stadler today? – At least distance yourself from this development that is taking place in your ranks! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Böhacker: That's incredible! That's incredible!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The accusation made during the investigations against the right scene or the right corner, or even if you want to do so, against the neo-Nazis scene... [[Abg. May. Stadler: When do you apologize to the victim's family? When do you apologize to the victims of discrimination?]] [[Further violent calls to the liberals.]] I do not know any Member of this House who at some point would have said that the FPÖ was involved in the letter bomb and pipe bomb attacks. I don't know anyone in this house who would have done this! [[Abg. Scheibner: Reading!]] The investigators have often spoken of a right scene, of the right corner and of the neo-Nazis scene. Ladies and gentlemen! If you find yourself in it – because you're so excited today – then that's your thing! [[Abg. Scheibner: A naughty thing!]] We didn't say that! You should think in a quiet minute about how far you are manoeuvring yourself into this corner! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is now a special feature of the right scene that it has made xenophobia its content. It was clear who the victims of the letter bomb attacks were. The Minister has pointed out who the victims are. It was therefore also clear that this was also the direction to be determined. [[Further violent calls to the liberals.]] I can't imagine finding a suspect without any consent. Of course, it may also be that one or the other person has nothing to do with the matter. Ladies and gentlemen! As we are talking about the accusations, as accusations have been made here, I should like to point out what you have put into the room in this context of accusations. Her partyobmann Dr. Haider meant to a newspaper, with the letter bombs there were no new results. On the question of the editor, he said: "I still suspect that Serbian intelligence has its fingers in play. Austria has always been the enemy of the Serbs, and therefore it must be destabilised." – Original quote: Haider. It was the next question of the editor: What do you say to Oberwart? – Haider: "That could also have other backgrounds. Who says it wasn't about a conflict in a arms store or a car-moving deal or about drugs?" That was your assignment, ladies and gentlemen! That was your assignment or your assessment of this crime. That violence for you, Dr. Haider, is not such an unknown theory in the realization of political work, Mrs. Schmidt will probably be able to confirm. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] They have, in fact, expressed their desire for foreigners for the introduction of Mr Schmidt, as it could lead to violent conflicts, literally mean: That's calculated. That's what I'm expecting, but that's where we have to go. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Such a pot! That's a pot!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] So violence is no stranger to you in the implementation of your political goals! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Schlögl, in his presentation, asked the investigators to leave their work alone now and not to hinder them in their task. I can only underline that. At present, there is often the feeling that there are more journalists in the investigations at the crime scene than there are security bodies. I believe that this is not the way to work successfully. I can only underline this appeal: Let's get the investigative forces to work in peace! We are sure that the step that is now taking with the arrest of Franz It is a matter for the Commission and the Council to take the necessary steps to ensure that the Community is able to take a more effective and more effective approach to this problem. Terror and anti-democratic elements must not get a chance in our Republic, ladies and gentlemen! Let us keep party-political struggle, party-political action out of this so difficult criminal case! This is not a suitable means of combating terrorism! I can only underline all that the Minister of the Interior has said here today. The Austrians, ladies and gentlemen, want to live in a country where internal peace, internal security, social peace are guaranteed, and as a Member of Parliament, we as politicians have the obligation to ensure the values they expect of the Austrian people, instead of endangering peace in the country by means of a party political hack, and to prevent the clarification of such a difficult case. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We have this responsibility! Let us also take care of this responsibility! Let us help the executive together in their difficult task! I do not support, on behalf of our club, on behalf of the Socialist Group, those officials who have been working to clarify this case in the many years since this series of letter bombs or bombs in Austria, to thank them warmly and sincerely for their work in fulfilling this difficult task. We have heard from the report of the Minister of the Interior that the culprit, who is in prison, would not have sprung back from eradicating executives' lives. Their task is so difficult and responsible! Let us take them seriously and support our executives in their difficult task! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e5210	Mr Magistrate has the power to make an actual correction. Stadler. Please, honourable Member, you have the floor. Start with the claim you want to correct!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e5234	Mr President. High house! Mr Leikam, in his report on winery, has made the incorrect claim that he does not know any member of this House who would have linked the liberals directly or indirectly with the bomb terror. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] – That’s wrong! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Schmidt.]] It is true that both present and former Members of this House have made allegations in this direction. These are just an example. First example: ==References== January 1994. I quote: "The fact that there is a concrete link between the activities of the right-wing extreme scene and FPÖ mandataren points out that the spouse of a countryman can be seen on a video with one of the suspects in the letter bombs." [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: This is not an actual correction!]] Second example: In an APA issue of the SPÖ-Federal Managing Director and former delegates to the National Council Brigitte Ederer of 17 November 1895. In October 1995 it reads as follows: "The right-wing extreme background of letter bomb terrorism is undisputed among democrats. That Haider, as a political leader and ideologist of right-wing terror, desperately tries to "get rid of his responsibility and cover up the obvious contexts is only too understandable." [[Abg. Leikam: This is a judicial judgment!]] [[Call the SPÖ: This is not an actual correction!]] Third example: ==References== ==References== Quote: "It cannot be denied that there are communication vessels between the 'F' movement and the right-wing extremists in Austria in connection with the letter bomb series, the Clubobmann continued." – These quotations were only mentioned as examples.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e5305	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that from now on I will only call upon all the actual corrections after the end of the debate. We are now continuing in the debate. The next speaker is Mr Dr Kier. Please, honourable Member, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e5348	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I'll try not to be whiney; Mr Leikam has received this predicate, although he has not deserved it. – First, I will deal with the case myself. The Minister of the Interior has here given a report on this case, and this report gives rise to optimism that the thread which is now in hand offers the opportunity to actually reach and distinguish, up to the reason of this criminal case, whether it was a single perpetrator, which in a certain way is implausible, or whether it was several perpetrators, which is not safe, and so on. I think that these aspects of the report by the Minister of the Interior should not be forgotten in such a debate, and in this sense I am grateful to Mr Leikam for pointing out that much and hard bone work is still waiting for the staff of the Security Executive, that the Special Commission will still have much to do and that this first success, which, as I have to say, was based on a happy, yet coincidence, now offers an opportunity to go on with this case really profoundly and quickly. This concern seems to me to be the first-class one. It is only then, when everything is clarified, that a summary political debate can be held, for otherwise one will stay in the round and forth and political change will be struck out of it. But that's bad, because this very style we're showing here is the climate in which such attacks are growing! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens as well as on representatives of the SPÖ.]] Such debates are not a good ground to demand citizens a high level of democratic attitude, high ethos and so on – what we expect as democratic consensus, what we cannot write into the laws and not even want to write into them, because that would be the instruction for a certain attitude. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: All at once! All of a sudden!]] That is, I think, essential! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I believe that it plays a very important role in what climate the history of time, including criminal history, and also terrorism. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Finally admit that the FPÖ has been wronged! Have the courage!]] Mr Graf! With all the clarity, Mr Leikam has already said that: If You feel so affected when someone creates the objective finding that the victim group that the target orientation of the confessional letters, all these details, is clearly politically appropriate, then this is your problem! That's what I'm paying attention to! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum, the SPÖ and the Greens.]] If you seem to like Xenophobia as the sole feature of your party and if a Federal Minister for the Interior brings into this house laws that please you, and then you say: [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That's the climate! They don't listen and stop!]] That's our best man in the government, what's that supposed to mean? Mr Graf! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: I don't feel affected!]] Don't rain up like that, it's bad for your cycle! I would like to ask you to listen to me, perhaps you can learn something! Whoever feels himself in self-poverty is a typical culprit, and that is described in criminalism. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That's huge! What does that mean?]] [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on representatives of the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The thing that helped the accident here was that the person who had fallen asleep responded in an unspeakable way. I mean mental perpetrator behavior, it's about the spiritual climate. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You didn't say that before!]] Mr. Graf, try whatever you want... [[Abg. Scheibner: What does "criminal behaviour" mean?]] Well, he's caught up with his arguments. [[Abg. Scheibner: What does "criminal behaviour" mean? Who's the culprit?]] The one who makes the untruth a means of politics is a perpetrator. Believe me! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum, the SPÖ and the Greens.]] If someone makes the untruth a means of politics, he's a culprit! Faith You're me! [[Further violent calls to the liberals.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Persecutor for what?]] – For the spiritual climate! And this is the feeding ground on which it grows! Mr Graf! Did anyone at any time bring someone in a concrete connection with a terrorist attack to your organization? [[Call to the liberals:Yes! Yes!]] In a concrete one? Has anyone said: Haider has set the ignition, Stadler has helped him, and the nitroglycerin comes from Graf!Unknown term type: "%s".? [[Abg. May. Stadler: Haider is the drawing father, if you know what that is!]] Did anyone say that? - No one! No one said that! [[Abg. May. Stadler: You yourself! They were themselves!]] Mr President, I should like to thank If you believe that you can twist the words in my mouth, you can only prove once again that you do the bonework exactly for that climate in which this weed grows. Believe me! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum, the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] When an Interior Minister – whatever; Löschnak, I say – said, perhaps you should go to the right too – also to the right! – research, then I have to say: Unfortunately, this is necessary in this country, because occasionally only left-wing research has been carried out in this country! That's why it was a call to stay in the middle. To agree on innocent people in connection with the "Aula" card – this will be I would like to draw your attention to the fact that our group, in various representations from this pult, has said at all times: That was an evil misappropriation, an advance to the Rasterfährung! On the other hand, if you really want to arrest, you must buy that innocent people are also accepted. Hopefully this turns out at the time of the consultation, and then the innocent will be released from the consultation. Otherwise you could never... – That's something else now! [[Abg. May. Stadler: Grow! Bedridden! Wheelchair drivers! Blind!]] – Otherwise, you could never, even if not thoughtfully, approach a millimeter of the grid search. In the case of Rasterfachung, the main feature of those concerned is that they are innocent. Believe me! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens as well as on representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Purtscheller has not agreed to this day!]] The agreement of subscribers is nothing but a physical form of Rasterfändung. [[Abg. May. Stadler: An excuse would be due to these people, instead of justifying it, Lord Volker!]] If in the individual case – as you put it here now – a wheelchair driver has been badly dealt with, then this is a scandal. I don't argue for a second. If an 87- or 97- or 98- or, I don't know, 105-year-old university professor is mistreated in case of consultation, then this is a scandal. But even if he was guilty, that would be a scandal. Do you understand me? – That’s the difference! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] If he is innocent, it may be a little more striking, but I mean, also a debtor who is consulted, has the claim that he will be treated properly. I hope that the suspect fox is handled carefully now, because it is at least badly damaged and perhaps not at all taxable at the time of the consultation. But the doctors will decide. That's exactly what you're completely strange about. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Is not true!]] Yes, of course! Otherwise, you wouldn't always talk about the innocent! [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] Let me tell you again: The party political assignment you complain about, you pray quite formally for it. [[Abg. May. Stadler: No! We're not complaining! We only caught the socialists, your family!]] If you yourself quote the "Zie 中文er", Mr. Stadler, and call Peter Pilz in connection with the "Zie Mumbaier" quote, I will tell you: You may be the stepfather! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and SPÖ as well as on representatives of the Greens.]] If you would like to, then make use of all legal possibilities! [[Abg. May. Stadler: One thing I know: that your physical father has generated for you! I know!]] But to call the physical father, the physical father of a suspect, that is, Mr. Fuchs senior, here vain, that is something quite different, because it is no longer in the realm of the spiritual climate, it is no longer in the realm of such a still so hard-to- see worldly struggle, but it is actually an old man – perhaps not yet 97, but an old man – who may now be broken inwardly by the fate of his Son, for it is not pleasant for a father to experience that his son is under such suspicion and may be condemned. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Your father knew that too!]] On the one hand, he is told that he has missocialized the child – "impressed", I read in the press release. This kind of human contempt is exactly the climate in which an even so far-crossed brain comes up with the idea of bombarding refugee workers. That's the problem! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum, on representatives of the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] On the other hand, as an observer of the scene with the back and forth, one cannot have any joy at the crime scene – I am telling you – because the question of whether I am an arrest instrument – and a perpetrator profile is always a search instrument – published or not, is from my point of view a criminal tactic or criminal police question. There's probably a difference of opinion. I do not know if it is at all times advocating perpetrators to whom a great intelligence must be assigned in such a case, because the actions were quite sophisticated to tell how close one is to them, and that is the publication of a perpetrator profile. I am not a specialist enough to tell you whether this is good or not, but I think it is certainly reasonable to see this with a certain scepticism. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Before suppressing it, it is better to publish it!]] Allow me a quote from today's issue of a daily newspaper in which the actual author of the perpetrator's profile expresses himself; this will be You may be interested [[Abg. May. Stadler: What is the use of a criminal profile that no one experiences?]] According to Thomas Müller, the culprit responsible for the crime profile, the original report on the perpetrator's profile has not yet been published. The one in the book of Grassl-Kosa is another. Müller: It will be the time when we can publish it. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's where the Minister of the Interior shakes his head! That's not right!]] As long as such things are in motion, it is necessary to take political change as to whether the measure of publication is correct or wrong, for that is what the experts have to decide. I am of the opinion that: If I want to find out someone, it's not particularly convenient if I warn him behind whom I'm researching early. There can be people who think that this is favorable because they believe that they then put the perpetrator in fear and terror and then make mistakes. It's a possibility. Only: The mistake that the Lord Fuchs made and that led to his arrest was the panicic mistake of a human being, who might not react properly anywhere else. However, he has lived out a phobia that is clearly xenophobic in their results. Whether he has made this aware, planned, organized, or whether he has only lived on the soil, which is unfortunately very constitutional for some in this country,... [[Call:You're still falling on it! Incredible]] If a person is derailed, mentally, mentally, in his actions, like fox, then he seeks goals, and that he comes to such goals, is a mirror of our society. Believe me! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens as well as on representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: This is Marxist ideology: Society is to blame for everything!]] It's a mirror of our society. He could as well have sought another cross-border goal, from me from the railways, from me from the motorways or anything else, but he has chosen with very great care and acribie people who fit into a very specific grid, and that without grid suspension. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Marxism and Liberalism are unmistakable twin brothers! Who said that?]] The assignment is a cultural historical achievement, a spiritual achievement, not an organizational question. This is not a question of organisational characteristics, but that is a question: How does a person position himself inwardly, or his fellow perpetrators? And this spiritual climate is the theme of the conflict. But let's leave this ground, let's go back to the question of Enlightenment, and we'll ask ourselves: Is everything really so efficient at the Ministry of the Interior?- Oh, my God! I'm not sure. I do not want to remind retroactively of earlier successes – in such acts the successes are difficult to have – but in this whole hack of the media has become visible that the respective Minister of the Interior occasionally has his section heads, in this case the Director-General for Public Security, not really under control. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That would be even more beautiful! Now the Sika's to blame!]] I cannot share the accusation you have made, namely that a Minister would have the Director-General for Public Security. I sometimes feel that the section heads in the Ministry of the Interior are doing what they think is right, and there are two names in my mind, not only Sika but also Matzka. You know what I mean. I don't want to spread this now. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] The Minister's political responsibility is different. That is something else in this context. In a house where section heads develop a joyful own life and – quote – survive twelve ministers – I say in parentheses: (Pragmatization) – the search success may sometimes be slowed down or the respective minister may look something "old" because he may not even be fully informed and sometimes not even have to form his own opinion entirely. This impression was more evident in the predecessor of the current minister than in Schlögl. That of the Federal Ministers I would like to confirm that I occasionally made an unusually informed impression from this speaker's desk. But this is not a question of false instructions, but it is a question of an official who has too much self-employed. This is not a gratifying finding in the area of the security police, because these officials have the monopoly of violence and the monopoly of research in their hands, and both monopolies are fundamental to fundamental rights. That is why I think we should be very happy with the current success and ask ourselves whether the price we have paid for this success or will pay for the next successes is perhaps too high, namely the price of applying the grid search here and now. If you really put up the thesis that you would have found Mr Fuchs with the grid investigation, then I will put the rhetorical question out of this pult – and there is a parliamentary question to my group: What kind of characteristics would you have gridded with? With the characteristic "more than 50", as the perpetrator profile shows? He's 48. With the feature "live alone"? Although he was a self-breader, he lived in an association. Or would you have used its organizational characteristics? Would you have used the feature of his father's membership in a party, in a large party, in another party? Would you have used this? That is the question I address to the safety officers. Of course, you wouldn't have found this man with the grid search – you know as well as everyone in this house – except there are databases we don't know about. The more secure a Director-General for Public Security is if he announces that the perpetrator would have been found with the warrant, the more suspicion arises that there are databases that we know nothing about. But I'm worried! Mr Stadler! If you were upset, I'd be more happy with all the other controversy. But if the Raster Enforcement is as excellent as Director-General Sika says, I expect that in one or two weeks the possible remaining perpetrators have been researched or that the multi-cultary theory can be finally excluded, because if that works as well as we are told, it would have to be possible. Or was the mouth too full once again as it was then when the ad was made of Wheel/Binder? Two were brought to court by the same security authority, and the prosecutor has charged, although at this stage it was already apparent that the material was quite thin – only for an early success! [[Abg. Young: It was not opportun to fend in a certain direction!]] But that's a completely different question. People are right in court, but because of other crimes. The fact that one has used one's own Pseudofiance success to quickly hang a coat of success also in the letter bomb series was a scandal of the other kind and has nothing to do with what you complain about here, but it was also a result of the fact that sometimes the security police run something out of political control. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e5832	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 10 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e5853	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! While the "criminologist" and "psychologist" has extemporated Kier in an expert manner, the back of the bank of the "hobbycriminologist" Sika has obviously won. In a parliamentary discussion, the weights suddenly shift. I have to say: I all prefer to know the experts of this republic sitting behind me on the bench than to see the Kier standing in front of me. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Intercom calls at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. May. Posch: You're not worth the call!]] Because the hypothetical assumptions, the fictions that he has built here, actually make me smile. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: You're a security risk! Can you even talk?]] For example, if you say that there is nothing in the crime profile at all, which would be well-founded, I ask, Mr Kier: Do we live in the high house in a different world? As a matter of fact, I took along the book of Grassl-Kosa and Steiner, because since the first speech, the so-called crime profile has always been mentioned. I do not know, ladies and gentlemen, who really read it, but for information to those who may not have used it: It's a good thing to compare the description of Franz Fuch's person with the perpetrator's profile, developed years ago by experts, by psychologists at the Ministry of the Interior. It stands here plausively – I quote –: "He's Austrian. He's a man. He's 50 years old. He lives in Styria. He lives in a family house. He set up a hobby workshop. It has special tools. He's alone. There were marked cuts in 1985 and 1993. He's Catholic. He's got Matura. His trademark is the language habit. He's chemically decorated. He's electronically highly decorated. He's rhetorically decorated. His leisure work is reading books and newspapers. He has impressive evidence of his microsensory capabilities at home. He's an orderly man. His humor is cynicism." [[Abg. Dr. Cap: And scientist!]] Maybe! Now I'm saying: If what the Federal Minister has said about the person of Franz Fuchs and if what I have quoted here from this book on the crime profile of Grassl-Kosa and Hans Steiner is identical, then there are amazing parallels, then the question of the publication of the perpetrator profile is a significant question, then the neglect of this crime profile is a question to be discussed here in this House, contrary to the intentions of the Director-General for Public Security. [[The speaker shows it before]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Kier.]] Ladies and gentlemen. I quote from the premise of "NEWS" for tomorrow's Director-General Sika: "When everyone looked in the extreme corner, I always explained that you will experience surprises." [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: All!]] No, no, I quote Sika, Mr. Klubobmann! – "I never believed apodically in the political background. A lot of things are saying that I'm right. Our psychologist and I have always said that the perpetrator who does such a thing must be a bomb brain in the sense of a huge thinker. I have always warned of political dimensions." - Quote. I'll get it to the point: If the Director-General for Public Security warns against political categorisation, from political thinking, and recommends that, in this really biggest criminal mystery in Austria in the Second Republic, a reconnaissance be carried out in a different direction, I must say: The responsible Minister of the Interior certainly did not go the right way! And he called Caspar One at the time. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Wabl: Let the Director-General speak of political thinking!]] I'm saying, and I'm saying, Caspar's political responsibility stems from this Nobody! I claim this here and now, and I also carry the evidence in the following statements I make. In a whole series of personal talks I had with officials of the Ministry of the Interior, in background discussions, through information provided to me, I was confirmed, so that my suspicion was that One wanted to work against the apparatus, that One wanted to instrumentalize one politically, and that One was not allowed to raise criminal police. This is my accusation, to which I stand, and I say that! [[Congratulations to representatives of the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! [[Intercession with the liberals.]] I have not done anything yet, and I am going to justify it, Mr President. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: There have been mistrusts in the past!]] ==References== In May 1995, when we discussed with Caspar One in the House, our clubman Andreas Khol addressed four questions to the then Minister of the Interior Caspar One. Question 1: Minister of the Interior, how do you stand for defensive democracy? Question 2: Do you have blind spots, or do you look equally good on both eyes? Question 3: How do you stand for constitutional protection? Question 4: How does your relationship with violence look? These are questions that are as up-to-date today as they were at the time. Only, ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party: The Minister of the Interior is no longer called Caspar One, but the Minister of the Interior is now called Karl Schlögl! Karl Schlögl – and I also confirmed this in my previous speeches – has confirmed for me the quality of the handshake. He's a man to negotiate with. He is the Minister of the Interior, which we strongly support from the ÖVP. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The question of mistrust against Caspar It's one thing for me. She doesn't make me. He is no longer Minister of the Interior of the Republic of Austria. [[Abg. Young: Either he's trustworthy or he's not! Twice you have expressed your confidence in him!]] They know best that not only has he been my ruby tree often enough, but he has also been the minister who has permanently caused friction losses in the coalition, that he has been the one who, through his operation, has seen his work through the political glasses, has brought us, the ÖVP, with the coalition into a river that we did not want. I claim this, and I prove it here! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Gartlehner: I'm excited about this evidence! These are empty claims!]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Ladies and gentlemen! What – and that is the essential thing for us – is the ÖVP different from all the other political parties in this House? The evidence is easy to carry. [[Abg. Young: You must submit!]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no! "There is not the slightest reason to preserve right-wing extremism, but also no one to impoverish left-wing extremism." Wolfgang Schüssel said on 4 May. May here in plenary: "Democracy must be defensive and vigilant, protect itself against all extremes." That is what we stood for, and we will stand for it in the future. This clearly and clearly defines the position of the ÖVP. This is easy to understand: We are the political center, we were in the past and have never loved it with left or right. We will also keep it this way in the future: We reject any form of extremism! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Franz Fuch's main responsibility for the letter bomb attacks is certainly limited. At this point, on behalf of the ÖVP, I would like to say a thank you to colleagues in the executive who do their job, to the Federal Minister as the politically responsible, who assures our loyalty, but also our support within the coalition, and in addition to express the compassion of those who have been harmed by the perpetrator or the perpetrators, but above all also the family of the perpetrator who has been innocently accused of the crimes of their son or brother. [[Abg. That's dangerous if you promise loyalty!]]
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e6082	Mrs Petrovic. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Please, ladies and gentlemen. You, too, have given a 10 minute voluntary limit on speaking time? [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Voluntary speaking time?]] It was so announced to me. Is it gonna stay there? [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: I have to say that only in the course of my speech!]] Mrs. Dr. Petrovic, what am I supposed to do? [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: 15 minutes!]] 15 minutes. Okay.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e6138	Federal Minister! Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Before I come to my statement on the two points, namely the specific crime or the crime series and the question of any political responsibility, a few very brief preliminary remarks. First: Mr Federal Minister, I think it is very correct and I would like to thank you for reporting here today on the issue of letterbombenattents. I would like this matter to be dealt with in the future, namely that we Members here in this House will always be informed of the current state of affairs. I think that we should debate a case in which we are working all over Austria, of course also in Parliament, in the House. I have also found it remarkable, and I do not think that it should be noted that ex-minister Löschnak admitted that, in particular in the early stages of the investigations, there was an error of services due to insufficient equipment. I think that the granting of wrong benefits significantly relieves the whole discussion and reduces it. It is also my need to thank those two women whose vigilance has ultimately produced much more than instruments, which I believe are too dangerous for democracy out of my political conviction, such as the search for grids. These two women certainly did not know who they were doing, but perhaps there was also a certain feeling that ultimately laid a particularly important foundation for all the investigations. Two more preliminary remarks to make are also important to me. On the one hand: Of course, the presumption of innocence must also apply to the person of Franz F.. We can only call him a bomb army, a member of an instigator group, or the instigator, if he is legally sentenced by an Austrian court. That's not the case. Therefore, at one time he is a suspected suspect, a suspect. Secondly, In my opinion, it is significant – and I am aware of this too, because I would have liked to have a serious and serious discussion with the executive clubman of the liberal group or with their party owner – that you, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals, have again and again used the procedure you have used on recent occasions, namely, to shake the whole house at first, to act with unfounded accusations and then to say goodbye, to practice once again today. I think this is very unfortunate. Ladies and gentlemen! Now on the two points I want to deal with in detail – very important to me is the demarcation of these two areas – on the one hand, on the concrete offence, the series of letter and pipe bomb attacks, the killing, the injury, the threat, the attempted intimidation of people, and on the other, on the question of whether it is legitimate to ask for political responsibilities. First of all, for the crime itself: It is important to me – and I also believe that this pro-futuro is important for this House – to be embarrassingly precise between a political and a criminal, a delicate responsibility. It is also important for us from the Green Group if, for example, we demand and desire research committees on the matter of Kurds or on other issues: It does not require anyone to be a politician or a politician, directly a offender or a offender, it does not mean that anyone is even subject to an approval, an acknowledgment of criminal acts, and the question of political responsibility is a question which, unfortunately, has not been done too often by the police authorities and also not by the ordinary courts, but rather by a question which is to be clarified here in the House. On the question of the offence itself: I am concerned or alarmed that, in connection with the alleged bombing officer Franz F., a very strange depoliticization is tried, partly even mystification or glorification, and that this is also partly carried out by other critical media. For example, the talk of a huge thinker, of an intelligence beast, of someone with enormous abilities and knowledge. I think it is very dangerous to put such words in the mouth in connection with a common, a cowardly and loathsome offence. I don't think that's all right. There is a crime which, of course, has to be resolved by the authorities with all the means at their disposal, and I hope that in the future there will not be, or hardly, any error, and that this crime series can be resolved in full. In my view, for mystifications, for an increase in the exercise of this perpetrator, there is not the spark of an occasion, and in particular the police authorities and representatives of the police authorities have to contain such statements. [[Abg. Young: Did you not mention the presumption of innocence earlier?]] If you call in this way, I think that the most incredible precepts in this area came from the now absent party keeper of the liberals, who, already quoted here, underwent any gang wars, feuds and the like in connection with the murders of the Roma. This was one of the worst slanders and the worst of people who have surely found themselves in an extraordinary situation of personal pain. On the question of political responsibility: This is, as has been said, to separate from the specific question of the offence. Political responsibility does not mean criminal, criminal responsibility. But the question of a political offence is beyond doubt. I simply do not have the words, if you try to rehearse them in the light of all the sources and evidence that appear to come from the perpetrators. It is important to me because I come to speak again to bring some literal quotations from the confession letters. They will then wonder, in the statements on political responsibility, how clearly some parallels can be seen. The following sentence is written in connection with the injured police officer of Klagenfurt: "The two men who are inadvertently damaged by us are supposed to drive to Vienna and stand at the shoulder of their Tshuchen chiefs Klestil, Vranitzky, Busek, Mock, Lösnak, Klima, Lacina, Scholten (evidently an Asian Jew with a German name), Michalek, Hesoun, Dohnal, Vergestnitsch, Petrovic, Stoisits, Zilk, Weingartner (dark skin, probably gypsy), Krainer and so on." In other places, it says: "If the foreign Tribun Zilk, which the Jews have with the order, becomes too tiring, we will be happy to send him seven grams of nitroglycerin again. It is also good for him that he has lost a hand, for with this hand he has seized our savings books to provide and feed intruders with apartments, as well as to put the children of the Vienna panties into the public service." Or: In the letter of confession, which has gone to Schimanek State Councillor, it is recommended, after having previously given this letter to the Executive, that the Landesrat Schimanek, which is completely correct, I note, and contrary to the recommendations of the letter writer, to stage a deception maneuver against the lawyer Dr. Prader. The wife of Mr. Schimanek was supposed to venture directly into the cave of the lion, namely to Dr. Prader, to visit Prader, to see the desperate mother mimes and to cry out to him how unscrupulous she is, to seek a paid advice and to learn from Prader what strategy he proposes or what mistakes Dr. Werner has made in connection with the condemnation of Schimanek junior. He further recommends Schimanek, unlike the previously mentioned, to adopt a German name with the whole family. It means here: "Declare that people always ask you to spell the name, and that's annoying." Then comes a statement in which it says: "If our great-grandfathers had already shot the brick trees and Knödelköchen at the border, the German-Austrians would have saved today's disaster from having to defend themselves against the impact of a men's caste from Tschus." It goes on to say: "You already hear about the Turkish siege in 1683 in the school. There's no need for an intrusion by anyone to recognize the analogy to today's situation, where black-eyed people, in turn, are wandering around in the former suburbs with co-grown eyebrows." The last one is: "In the last ten years, windows of skin type IV have been moving more and more into the foreground with eyebrows and oats growing together." – Then comes a list similar to that mentioned by me at first. In view of such quotations, to say that this is not a political offence, I find a very bad fog. This is of course – and rarely do we have it so clearly, in such many documents, black on white – the act of a very apparently right-wing, fascist, fascistic-acting perpetrator. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I am incompetent if one wants to divert from this perpetrator in any form or if one wants to present these statements as never made, as never made. I consider this non-hearing and non-reading to be a matter of concern. This brings me to my second point, to the political responsibility, which must be strictly separated from the crime. Perhaps, I admit, this demarcation has not always been sufficiently clear. But I believe that we can and should draw conclusions from this debate for the future and take this separation seriously, which on the one hand, and the question of the political climate, on the other, are very close to each other. It's one thing and the other it's not harmless. If the Federal Minister said today that neither the perpetrator profile was suppressed nor one-sidedly arrested, then that sounded very convincing to me. I also think, Mr Federal Minister, that it will be up to you to support or not to tolerate your statements that you have made contrary statements from your apparatus, for that is certainly confusing. [[Abg. Scheibner: This is another underprinting set by Sika!]] But if you address this question again, I must tell you the following about the political climate. As I said, this has nothing to do with the offence, I am not putting anyone under criminal law. But from the mouth of the liberal party keeper there is a quote that I would like to repeat here. I'm telling you, I've seen this movie personally, too. That's what I'm saying: "We" – O-Ton! – "The Turkish wars did not succeed hundreds of years ago to bring about a change on their own." Or – next quote –: "This is our understanding of parliamentary democracy, which is our understanding of human rights, which, please, apply not only to foreigners. Austrians too are people and have a claim to human rights!" – as if there were shared human rights in Austria. [[Calls of the Abg. Dr. Ofner and Dr. Graf.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: What's so bad about that?- Oh, my God!]] – These calls disqualify yourself! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Federal Minister! I am asking you whether you see dangerous political parallels which, as I have said, do not refer to the act, but rather to the political climate in this country and to the environment. [[Abg. Scheibner: Ebergassing!]] If we want to have consequences from today's debate and from the now, hopefully, now rapidly following overall education – and I think that should make sense in order to make this debate – then, as I believe again, we must reconsider the laws in the area of integration, in the area of residence rights and the work of foreigners. I believe that in some cases there are legal consequences that are covered, the rule of law simply goes too far. For example, the loss of existence as a result of a lack of time limit seems to me to be covered and unbearable to a rule of law. I also believe that we must stop verbal discrimination. I do not think that people – even if they have wronged, even if they have broken administrative regulations, for example – are caught up with the really evil concept of "illegal" and are deprived of all other aspects of their human beings. [[Abg. Young: Isn't that the truth?- Oh, my God!]] It would be as if someone who has broken a different law were to call a false parker, for example, or a thief, as "illeagues". This is a generalization, an annihilation that is hurtful and is not concerned. In my opinion, better control of the behaviour of officials is also needed. Something has already been said about it. On the one hand, I think that such contradictory statements should not be left in the room, nor should they allow the glorification of perpetrators from the police sector. In particular, however, it is also necessary to check the behaviour of other officials – the word "formware", the word "educate", the word "deportee in the chord". I think that this climate would really be halted. There should be no false signals for the future, especially when it comes to climate issues. As I said, 100 percent yes to the enforcement of law-abiding laws, but no to false signals, such as a container prison in Schwechat. One thing, perhaps the last one, as a lesson: Just as there seems to be anti-Semitism without or almost without Jews, as there is xenophobia regardless of the number or behaviour of strangers, we probably also have the political teaching from this series of attacks to learn that overshadowed laws are not a protection against criminal derailments. They have to be policely, criminally informed, but it is up to us to send out the right signals politically, climatically! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e6255	I call Mr Jarolim. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e6277	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Whoever has heard the inaccuracies and the accusations of Mr Stadler here this morning will understand that it is very difficult – yet, as the first speaker! – to preserve a certain amount of materiality in this discussion. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: He didn't speak at all this morning!]] I shall try to stick to it, and I agree that my predecessor has made a significant contribution to it. [[Abg. Haigermoser: The left axle works!]] I read this morning an article by Walter Osztovics, who is certainly not suspected of being close to my party. In his article, he writes one, as I do my very striking conclusion, which actually presupposes much of what has already been said here today. The sentence is – I quote –: "Fuchs is obviously not a neonazi, not a German national, not a burger, and perhaps was never at a FPÖ event. But what he wanted to do was an Austria, which is much closer to the ideas of Karl-Heinz Grasser, Hans Achatz and Co. than those of, we say, Terezija Stoisits." – You can't add much more, ladies and gentlemen. The question we have to ask ourselves today is: What is the origin of this political climate, which has ultimately created something in Austria, which has ended in bombs? [[Abg. Haigermoser: Here the cream is stuck in the neck! He has to crush the cream before, he can't take all the pieces, they stand in the neck, and then he throws himself behind the speaker's mouth!]] Mr President, I should like to thank You can quack in there as much as you want. I am used to the fact that from your side comes everything to prevent a real, democratic struggle. That's quite clear! [[New calls to the liberals.]] [[Calls of the Abg. You son of a bitch.]] This is also true in this matter, in which we have in principle made progress – whether with or without chance – is not a debate here, in which it has succeeded in ultimately becoming a bomber, who has already made a partial confession. But you stand here and say that's not a success. They are polemizing against this, and we note that in principle you regard any progress in this country negatively and are against it, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The question that arises for me is just: What is behind this excitement and excitement, behind this unnecessary press conference in which you spoke about the "socialist fox"? – That’s totally obscurity! Imagine, for example, what it would be like to hear if I had to take it to your side, to Mr Westenthaler, for example, who has been shown to come from a social democratic house, who has even changed his name so that he can dissociate himself from it. [[Abg. Young: Many social democrats are capable of learning, you can see that in the elections!]] I have to say, I don't understand your argument. I do not understand why you now suddenly resort to the parental home, which should be the basis for the fact that a socialist has become active in this way. [[Lively calls to the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: cause!]] This is such a low level of argument, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals, that it is simply scandalous! You have to take note of this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: The Fritzi Hochmair will thank you very much!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the "F"! The reason for this is clear to me: In the course of all these investigations, in the context of these surveys, there has been an unimportant number of radical perpetrators, which are to be attributed to your half of the empire. I am thinking, for example, of Mr Schimanek, a countryman who, in opinions concerning his son, who has revealed considerable criminal potential, has called into question a constitutional law without any reaction from your side. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: How often are these laws changed by you?- Oh, my God!]] – They say: "We can't do that! Re-acting may not be so bad anyway, perhaps we should talk about it. The law is not ours." – Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! This is a scandal, and you are digging at the democratic foundations of this state! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Prolonged calls to the liberals.]] [[Abg. Young: Maybe a few words about Ebergassing!]] You might want to keep in mind one more thing: This certain climate, which has been created with it, has created you! I would like to quote a few comments that come exclusively from your side. [[New calls to the liberals.]] ==References====External links== January 1988 – I quote –: I find it embarrassing that 180 000 unemployed have been reported and that there are still 140 000 guest workers in the country. Just don't tell me that this doesn't contribute to the climate, which was ultimately the cause of the bombing attacks! Or: In 1991 Mr. Haider was quoted as "basta" for the concept of democracy of the FPÖ: Whoever gets off the political line... – Listen to me a little bit, Mr. Colleague, and accept it! [[Abg. Haigermoser: lower adrenaline levels! Down with the adrenaline! I am waiting for a content contribution!]] Maybe come. Then, sometime to another way of thinking, which I doubt, but it would certainly be positive, and it would be necessary to be democratically hygienic. Quote Haider 1991: Those who are off the political line must go, ladies and gentlemen. There is a need to show hardness. I also do not expect him to give me his hand when I lie down, ladies and gentlemen. - Quote. That's what Partyobmann Haider said. [[Abg. Haigermoser: The evil wolf is coming right away!]] And here's what it says: If we have more to say, we will ensure that there is no more lying in the editorial offices. I'll have a uniform look throughout the party. This is a leadership task that can still be done. – Quote Haider, 9. September 1991. This is a climate brand Haider, ladies and gentlemen! I am surprised that you are pleased that someone says he has a leadership task to do. I'm surprised. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] Or: Haider, 7. October 1984: Today's form of living together is denatured. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Now he's swimming away!]] – Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! You must note that this is the climate you have built since 1984! And now you want to make yourself here and explain that a socialist would have broken the attacks? – This is a completely obscene argumentation. I don't think so. At the press conference held by Mr Stadler, the journalists did not even laugh. I am surprised that he has put up with this at all, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I come to the conclusion. Remarkable have been – and I have not heard this in this discussion by the Freedom Party so far – the failures of Mr Stadler against the Supreme Court today. He stated that a political campaign, which is likely to be a party policy campaign, was passed by the Supreme Court, stating that it could continue to be said to Haider that he is the leader of extreme right-wing terrorism. – Ladies and gentlemen! The OGH does not say that it is wrong, and in that it must remain! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e6528	Mr Magistrate has now been reported to speak. Schweitzer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e6550	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Jarolim! May I ask you what the friends of Mr Ein, Mr Thaler and Mr Konicek, wanted to do? Mr Jarolim! What is the answer to this question? What did Thaler and Konicek want to do? How would the classification of this act take place? As the assignment of this attack would have been done, both the ZiB's comments of Mr Kössler and many other political reactions have shown, however, before it was known that the perpetrators themselves were split into the air there. At that time, therefore, we tried to give a political direction to an attempted attack, which has never been attributed to it, as the dead there have shown, Mr Jarolim. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: What's the cause?- Oh, my God!]] – This only once before the classification of attacks. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I give the right to those who now demand in broadcasts that all of this not be misused Party-politically. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Tell the Stadler!]] You are quite right, Mr Doppelmüller! But since the first letter bomb was detonated in December 1993, representatives of three parties operating in that country have repeatedly tried to do so. Again and again, you have tried to beat up party-political capital. I just remember the 8th anniversary meeting. February 1995 when the bomb terror was given a new quality by the Oberwart attack. Once again, there were representatives of these three parties who at the time tried to beat party-political capital out of it. I remember very well the speeches of Mr Voggenhuber and Mr Petrovic. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller.]] Col. Doppelmüller! At the time, there were two liberal speakers who said: First – I quote –: I therefore think it is wrong if, through the press service and newspaper statements, one or the other has also tried to draw his hasty conclusions or make his political statement. – Quote Jörg Haider. [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: I don't understand that you're going out here today and talking!]] Secondly, I quote: Ladies and gentlemen! I appeal to all the rapporteurs of the media, to all colleagues in all political parties, to all those who now speak publicly: Please, beware of instrumentalizing innocent victims of insanity for various political objectives! - Who said that, Colleague Doppelmüller? – That was the final apple of my own speech. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] At the time, we really tried to keep this attack out of the political debate, and it should have stayed. But, ladies and gentlemen, how was it then? – There have been concerted campaigns! I only recall the concerted campaign in the European Parliament when, a few days after the Oberwart attack, we tried to bring our party chairman, Jörg Haider, into a direct connection with the attacks of Oberwart. These were you, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, with your colleagues in the European Parliament! They were! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] And you have managed to weaken us for a second time and even win a vote on it in the European Parliament, with the Oostlander report. The SPÖ was again a leader, supported by the Greens in the European Parliament. You have instrumentalized the victims of party politics, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But it's still going on. On the basis of a decree by Mr Scholten, who is no longer in politics – some think: Thank God – this party-political instrumentalization was even brought into schools. [[Calls and calls to the SPÖ and to the Freeman.]] On the basis of a decree, even a man currently sought by the authorities, named Purtscheller, was allowed to teach at our schools. I have once, together with Mrs Stoisits, had the "enjoy" to listen personally, as he has tried, in the context of political education, to push responsibility for the attacks into the shoes of the liberals. Scholten has issued a decree for the party-political abuse of teaching in our schools! – If it is against the liberals, then every means is right for you, otherwise you lose the vote, dear friends of the SPÖ! That's why it's true! Together with Socialists and MEPs of the Greens, Wolfgang Purtscheller has made a clear mood against the liberals in teaching and has misused these attacks, this bomb terrorism in a political way, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: Painful!]] By the way: Colleague Stoisits then, when she noticed that Wolfgang Purtscheller obviously had something with Ebergassing on the hat, very slowly distanced himself from him. But the urgent request that was made at the time during the mourning session on 8 October. In February 1995, 20 specific questions were still raised in the interest of the Wolfgang Purtscheller. I think he wrote it in the Green Club himself at the time, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You don't just have to believe that! He's got it!]] This urgent request shows that very good links have existed between the Green Club and Wolfgang Purtscheller, who is suspected of having something to do with the bomb terror in this country. That's a fact. This makes it clear: Political abuse with these bombing attacks is constantly being carried out by the SPÖ and by the Greens, ladies and gentlemen. That's a fact. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: Karli! What about the cemeterys?- Oh, my God!]] Klaus Kufner is no one who has entered and left us. Klaus Kufner went into and out of this house in other clubs – certainly not with the ÖVP and certainly not with the liberals, but in other clubs, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wabl.]] Mr Wabl! When a Minister of the Interior became a minister of the Interior, the impression arose very quickly that the authorities were always hindered in their investigations if they wanted to reach a new direction of investigation. Several of Sika's statements that have already been quoted speak for this. It became apparent that the investigators It was under political pressure all the time. This is repeated again today in an interview in "NEWS". [[Abg. Koppler: So is everything right, what "NEWS" writes?]] It was not desirable to think about it – and now take good care so you can understand it! – whether there are also crimes whose main purpose is to suspect others. You should think about it, ladies and gentlemen over there, once you have the mental capacity to do so. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller.]] Despite Ebergassing! To date, one could not dissuade the accusations that he consciously manipulated with his direct influence, that he exerted pressure on political dissidents and that he together with the documentation centre of Austrian resistance, dubious journalists such as Kufner and Purcheller, "TATblatt" writers and some members of this House tried to instrumentalize bomb terrorism against us liberals – thanks to chance without success!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e6748	I call Mr Platter. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Doppelmüller, you have done all the honour to your name today!]] [[Further calls and calls between the SPÖ and the Freeman.]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] Deputies! Please start, they'll let you talk! I'll take care of it.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e6790	Thank you. Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to try to make the debate a little more calm. I think the whole debate is doing very well if you try to get back to the material level. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] The citizens of our country have undoubtedly been held in breath by letter bomb terrorism in recent years. Women and men became victims of these terrible attacks. We had to complain of the dead and the seriously injured. This letter bomb terrorism is probably the biggest, most terrible crime we have experienced in recent decades. Ladies and gentlemen! Now the executive officials of the alleged perpetrators could take hold. The investigations have not yet been completed, but at present everything points to the fact that they are a single culprit. There is no doubt that the citizens of our country are pleased that the executives have been successful in this difficult arrest measure. I would like to thank, as a federal executive officer of the ÖVP, the criminalists and all those involved in the investigation of this crime and express my congratulations to them. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I hope that this success will restore peace to our country. Ladies and gentlemen! Now I want to look at the Causa letter bomb terrorism from two different perspectives, from the criminal police point of view, from the point of view of the executive, and from the political point of view. For the purposes of criminal policy assessment: I am deeply convinced and know that the executive had a special ambition to clarify this letter bomb disease. The investigation of such a crime without appropriate instruments for the executive, without modern investigation methods, is a very difficult matter. Especially in the case of such a difficult subject, where there are many emotions, one should remain on the bottom of the matter. However, I believe that the likelihood of an earlier investigation of this letter bomb terror would have been higher if the executive had previously been provided with the necessary instruments, the modern investigation methods. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Former Mayor Zilk from Vienna, victim of this terror, has formulated much sharper my now made statement regarding the application of modern methods of investigation. He was always a defender of the grid. And it is precisely the statements of the suspected perpetrator that he believed that he had been caught by the Raster Enforcement. Only by the fact, ladies and gentlemen, that the Rasterfachung has been since 1. October is possible, the suspected perpetrator became nervous, made mistakes due to his nervousness and could be arrested. That is why the long-standing grid arrest by the ÖVP has contributed to this success. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am very glad that such serious crimes can now be rastered to protect the people of our country. Ladies and gentlemen! If one looks back at the emotional debates of the various parties during the past few years in this House and, in order to make small political money, considers what ideology might belong to that or the perpetrators, then I must say: That is incredible and therefore indispensable. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The work of the executive in this causa was very difficult due to politics. This permanent interference of politics, especially the party policy of the opposition – I may take out the Liberal Forum – was certainly an unkind that I would like to strongly criticize. This interference was certainly not helpful in clarifying the crime. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Who suppressed the Sika?]] Ladies and gentlemen! In this context, I am very glad that the alleged perpetrator is most likely a single perpetrator who is mentally unfailing. I am very pleased in the interests of the security of our country that the alleged perpetrator does not belong to any political group. The individual perpetrators ensure that this letter bomb disease will no longer be repeated. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is an appeal that is particularly important to me: Have confidence in the executive and do not complicate the already difficult task of our safety bodies! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This also applies to you, Mr Stadler: Have confidence in the executives! [[Abg. May. Stadler: That was the one! Lord One was that, and that's not a freeman!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: (To Abg. May. Stadler) He is your best Federal comrade!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Now to the political assessment of this situation. In the light of today's debate, I see the need to make a political assessment. In the House today, there is an exchange of beats, which is no longer understandable for me and certainly for the citizens of our country and will undoubtedly cause great misunderstandings. Some of the groups in this House are trying with all their force to place the alleged perpetrator in a certain ideology. You certainly have no understanding of this! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] The editor-in-chief of the "Tyroler Zeitung", Claus Reitan, wrote a comment today with the title "Vulnerable Word Fights". I would like to quote a few of these, Mr Stadler. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] I would also like to speak to Mr Stadler. [[Abg. Haigermoser: He didn't deserve that either!]] Please, you have to listen! Claus Reitan writes under the title "Vulnerable Word Fights": "Just as if the letter bombs hadn't done enough damage, it's now overly hard words and political debt allocations. They come together and not at the wrong time." [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] . I know that makes you nervous, my dear colleague. And it goes on to say: "It would not be the greens, they would not throw around without criticism by the term "right". And even the liberals would hardly be what makes them so dubious, they wouldn’t move through the countries with the label ‘left’ as stickers. Concrete: Ewald Stadler is unconcerned and still long before the professionals and a conclusion of their criminal police activity, a first political record of bomb terrorism. His amazing result – as Claus Reitan writes from the "Tyrol daily newspaper": "Terror has a left-wing character, so to speak, socialist. This is for the time being unproven and therefore remains an immeasurable one." "Like Stadler, the Green Member Terezija Stoisits also spoke. It speaks on the occasion of the letter bomb series of a murderous play of right-wing extremism. As a politician threatened by attacks, she may be given a special sensitivity. But the problem is the same as that of Stadler, namely to assign terror by means of a right-left spectrum to parliamentary parties. So take the short way from the right hand to the extremes to the terrorists." Finally, Claus Reitan writes: "All parties will be well advised to stop these harmful verbal fights." I fully agree with this comment. We from the ÖVP are certainly not taking part in such an exchange of beats! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Schaffenrath: Is the pillow excluded? Ain't Kiss part of the ÖVP?]] Ladies and gentlemen! We do not need to be surprised at the fact that politics, parties and parliamentarians continue to fall in respect of the population if one is to be taken up in such a positive matter as that of the suspected perpetrator, who has put all Austria in fear and unrest, and one knows that it is likely to be a spiritually vulnerable individual offender, if one delivers such arguments as today, in such a gratifying pursuit. This debate today has certainly not deserved our House! My comment on this: I am glad that the alleged perpetrator was taken, and I congratulate the executive on this success. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e6966	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Schlögl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e6988	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to explain briefly to the House why, during Mr Stadler's speech, I went out with the Security Director and the Head of State Police. This was not rude to Mr Stadler, but it was due to the fact that I received the news that a new letter bomb might have appeared. But luckily, it turned out now that it was an attack. However, it was a very well-made attack because some of the things that the letter bombs usually have to contain were only fortunately not explosive. It has therefore taken a long time to find out without doubt that it is an attack. It is precisely this that moves me to appeal again to you all and to the Austrian people, not to believe that terror is finally over with Mr Fuch's arrest. It is not to be excluded that this man may have fellow perpetrators. And as long as this is the case, the warning is that there may be bombs in one form or another. And I cannot rule out the fact that there are imitators in one form or another. Therefore, my clear appeal not to fall into the illusion that the case has been unexplained. Unfortunately, he's not yet. We already know a lot of things, but there are still some things that are unclear. That is why it is still true that Mr. Fuchs can be the only perpetrator, but there can also be a second culprit or possibly a small group of perpetrators. – I wanted to say that. I would just like to make a brief comment on the statements made by the individual Members. I would like to assure Mr Stadler that, from the Ministry of the Interior, there is also an extensive documentation on the extremism of the left, that this documentation has been published in recent weeks and is sent to the members of the Committee on the Interior in the next few days. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Because you are ministers!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: (To Abg. May. Stadler) Had it been before! A long list!]] The important thing is, I would also like to say very clearly, ladies and gentlemen: I am not one of those who claims and guarantees that we have come to the perpetrator with the warrant, Mr Kier. However, I believe and am convinced that the Raster Enforcement has already caused some headaches to the or the suspects and caused unrest. And I can assure you that there are no data stocks that are secret, at least none that I know, and that we would have had a very legitimate chance with the search for grids that this name would have appeared because we had tried to bring a lot of things together. What is very important, ladies and gentlemen: We have found a scientific method by which we have been able to limit the area quite strongly. This method must be announced in the next few days. It has led to the fact that the area was essentially restricted to seven administrative districts in Austria. And if we had connected the male inhabitants of these seven administrative districts of Austria with the corresponding vocational training, i.e. started or completed studies in chemistry, mathematics or physics, if we might still have connected with it: Men who live alone in a household – I am not sure if this would have happened in this case or not – if we still have this with other data – I could now list some things, at least all data that is legally accessible, all data that is publicly accessible, all data that does not provide information about political, health or other orientations – would probably have been left a few hundred people. Whether we would have come to the perpetrator, I do not know, but the probability that the name would have appeared has been very high. What we could have started with this is another question. But I believe that this is already very informative and should also be very clearly highlighted. On the question of Mrs Petrovic concerning the container village – and this is my last contribution; he does not fit directly here: My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! What is said as a headline in a newspaper does not yet have to be what the Ministry of the Interior intends. We intend to make changes in the field of pushiness in the main three things: Firstly, many human rights organizations and also the Council of Europe call for us to separate administrative prisoners from migrant workers. That is why it is important that we build a new building of our own. This will, of course, not be a container village, but a decent, solid building. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Let the company build Rogner!]] Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, we must try to ensure that we have enough places to move. At present, there is a situation where some migrant workers have to be transported across and across Austria. This is a nonsensus and has to be stopped. Thirdly, we will also improve the conditions for the displaced. In this regard, there is a model experiment from Upper Austria with various charitative organizations, which we have with 1. January 1998 will extend all over Austria. I believe that with these measures we will help to make the thrust of human beings more efficient, but at the same time it will become more efficient for Austrian executives. Therefore, I ask you not to talk about a container village anymore, because that is not really – I say that openly and honestly – intended.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e7060	Mr Magistrate has now spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Barmüller. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e7081	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! One thing has already surprised me, Minister of State: You said in your speech that, of course, it is also a preliminary partial success of the announced Raster Enforcement that foxes could be picked up or arrested. If I remember the report quite well, then this reference to the perpetrator's profile had no connection at all. It was not concerned that there was a suspected bomber and letter - bomb dispatcher, but two young women clearly felt persecuted by a man. That is, what has been said in the perpetrator's profile – and I believe that this is also very essential in relation to the accusation made by the liberals – had nothing to do with this whole development in truth. The publication or non-publishation would not have led to any other development at all in this case. In this respect, it is also to be contradicted by Mr Kiss and by Mr Platter. You have said that there would probably have been some clarification earlier if the Raster Enforcement had already been available. But I repeat: If there had been the previous perpetrator profile as a basis for a grid investigation, then exactly the person of Mr. Fuch would have been out of existence already due to his age. When Mr Kier said this, there have already been some dissatisfactions on the part of the ÖVP, as in the case of: Well, just because it's there: "50 and older" and because the Lord is only 48, you will not believe that he would have fallen out. And here we are exactly the point that the Liberals are always making in this context: A culprit profile is created. Then they say, "No, no, no, no, no, no, We're making a grid. But we don't take it so precisely afterwards, because it's perhaps 50 years old or older or maybe a little younger, then we'll take the 40 or 45 years old as well. And so the circle is expanded. This leads to a massive intervention into fundamental rights, so that the EIA would be well advised in this situation to say: We must ensure that those chewers, which are built in, are fully respected! However, that will not be the case, Mr Kiss proves in "Dianetic" logic again and again, for he is the one who said: One made a mistake, one wanted to work against the device. But this is, of course, peculiar, because Mr Bundesminister One was, according to our constitution – at least during my studies, a top organ of administration – so one could not work against the apparatus, but at least the apparatus against one. But this is no longer the case with Mr Kiss, because it seems that there is a high degree of personal life in this area of the police – Mr Kier has called it "a happy life of his own" – which has all the more sad consequences. That is why I am surprised, ladies and gentlemen, that, at the end of the day, Mr Kiss is talking about a political responsibility of the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, but we are, of course, supporting him. – This is a typical problem and a typical attitude of the ÖVP: Of course, the Federal Minister is responsible, we cannot ignore this, as well as show it clearly and clearly, but of course we support it. – If the Federal Minister has made a mistake in this context, you also have the cutting and stand up for the measures that the liberals demand! For there is either a political responsibility, then it must also be called into question, or there is no such thing as it is, then do not talk about it! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It has been said that the case is not suitable for party-political action. This was, of course, primarily addressed to the FPÖ, but, Mr Federal Minister, of course, it applies to all the agents, and it is also true for the Social Democrats and for those who have advanced the search for grids and the noise attack. Because – I say it again –: There is nothing to do with the solution of this case, even though in the discussion about the introduction of these funds, the letter bombs were repeatedly referred to as the essential reason. You seem to have also found a way to carry out a very strong limitation of the culprit even without these funds. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the political dimension behind this whole history must be primarily relevant in this context. In this context, I think there is a very negative side-effect that has been found to be a political fissure. Mr Stadler has presented this in his well-known explosive way here at the speaker's desk. Mr Stadler! But there is absolutely nothing – Mr Kier has already said this, I repeat it only – if you refer here, for example, to the parents of the alleged bombing army. Because these parents – and this could be read in all media – have completely distanced themselves from the behavior of their son from the beginning. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: How Schimanek!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: At Schimanek you had the same opinion...!]] No, that's the difference! [[Abg. Dr. Haider: He has distanced himself!]] Mr Schimanek did not distance himself, but said that the Prohibition Act is actually quite a law of injustice. And that's the problem. [[Sustained calls of the Abg. May. Stadler]] It is not a matter of making it clear – I have also made this clear on other occasions, for example, when it came to the Schimanek National Liberation Council – that someone in the family area is distanced from another, but it is a matter of finding clear words in terms of content, and you always miss that. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum and SPÖ.]] I would like to take an example that has also gone through the media. It's about the noise attack in Leoben. Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that this noise attack in Leoben was possible should, in fact, irritate the Federal Minister or at least lead to the demand and the introduction of disciplinary measures. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Who showed this?]] The fact that the liberals are not talking about this case is, of course, because that criminal officer, District Inspector L. – the name I don't need to mention, Mr Stadler, for a long time – has been an AUF staff representative. He's taken those noise-attack measures. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Shown!]] There was no legal basis for this action. This is something, Herbert Scheibner, that you, if you really mean it, as you always say, and Mr Stadler, who cannot be taken seriously, should have asked here. [[Abg. May. Stadler: We have shown this in our request!]] The question raised by Mr Ofner is not enough in this respect at all. You know that, too. Therefore, it is also peculiar when an ÖVP member comes out here and says – almost "Helmi"-moderately – that: Have confidence in the executive! He may not know that in Leoben the staff representative of the AUF – close to the Freeman – has been launching noise attacks for a long time without any legal basis, for example with the installation of a video camera behind a stage! And do you know who was monitored there? – The free Christian community, a very harmless little group, as much as you know so far. Completely harmless, nothing at all! But this group had to be monitored in the convention center with a video camera! Do you know how you got it? – Because district inspector L. couldn't serve her, he had to ask. It really sounds grotesque, if it is not a moral picture of the fact that many things are going wrong in the Ministry of the Interior, Mr Stadler, too, without any relevance and without any political responsibility. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Mr. Barmüller! We showed this!]] [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I would also like to work out this, ladies and gentlemen, in relation to the perpetrator's profile. If you say in connection with the perpetrator profile, it has not been published – and this is a problem – then I think it is – if you also call it a mistake in the investigation, that may have been suggested, I do not want to judge at all – that a published perpetrator profile in book form, without the highest administrative body knowing it, because simply a man who is well deserved in other areas on the level below has developed a life of his own, which was apparently politically unaccorded or he has not had permission to do so, is very worrying. [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is really a problem!]] It can't be that one might say in the future: Well, the officials concerned have already survived 13 ministers. – One could also turn it around, one might come to the idea sometime to think that the ministers do not survive the officials. Ladies and gentlemen! If one comes to this conclusion, it is also obvious that there is an intensive life of one’s own in this regard. Mr Stadler, who has today been very credible and apparently very concerned about the fact that many innocent people come to the Executive Network within the framework of such necessary investigations, has not at all noticed that it was he who demanded vehement surveillance and noise attack. [[Abg. May. Stadler: I'm on it too!]] Of course! This is precisely the contradiction that Mr Stadler can raise from one speech to another and now even within a debate! [[Abg. May. Stadler: Of course I do!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: That was the DOW!]] This development by Mr Stadler is really worrying! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: That was the DÖW close to you!]] Again: Take care of the case in Leoben. I think that needs to be taken up. I would like, above all, to draw the attention of Mr Schweitzer to the following points: He is not at all willing to acknowledge that there is also a joint responsibility for a political climate in a country. This has nothing to do with what anyone does in concrete terms, but it is about the scope for political action to be allowed in a political climate. And when the Federal Minister – who, of course, is now also trying to use this case – said in the context of his remarks that politically motivated violence would not have a chance in our Republic to shake at the foundations of our democracy and republic, I would have expected that even the FPÖ will be applauded – but that has not happened. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e7301	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e7322	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Böhacker: Mrs Federal Minister!]] Mrs. Federal Minister! - Excuse me many times! Thank you, that was the first smart call I heard from you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: That was the first call he understood intellectually!]] Ladies and gentlemen! A major problem which I place in this debate today is that it is essentially only intended for the ears in this House; above all, because all those present – especially the ladies and gentlemen on the audience gallery – can follow which positions are represented here. And one could very easily give the impression, actually it all means well. Throughout all parties, the speakers have actually said: Let us not make this misguided affair out of this sad chapter of Austrian criminal history a political burden. – That’s basically right, you shouldn’t do that. At the same time, I invite everyone to remember, on the one hand, what has always fallen in here, and on the other hand, that it is obviously difficult for so many of the listeners to verify whether what has been said here today at this speaker's desk was, or has voted, serious. I am thinking, for example, of Mr Schweitzer's comments. Unfortunately, I do not have the time to present this in detail, but the speech by Mr Schweitzer is away from worlds – Mr Stadler, you can read it – what is in the "standard" of 24. ==References== [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler]] I assume that it was the intention of Mr Schweitzer to deliberately misrepresent the situation in the Burgenland at that time. I simply assume, because the fact alone, the decision-making in 1996, proves the opposite. - Point one. Point two: We heard – I repeat it again – from all sides: One cannot blame the parents for what a child eventually implements in action. At the same time, however, Mr Stadler goes here and says: In the past, the bomb series was falsely presented as a right-wing extremism; The fact is, however, that it is an example, a result of the leftist terrorist scene. Ladies and gentlemen! We should be aware here that on the one hand it is correctly said that there can be no fissure liability, while the same breath is demanded of the same person. This is exactly the wrong way, which is exactly the form of populism and distortion that happens in this House, but it does not do us all well! That's the fact. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Böhacker.]] Let's start from other things. Mr Stadler said in his fierce manner – and this is easy and quick to say – that excuses would be due. - Maybe. Only: If, on the other hand, we ask Mr Stadler to apologize for all that he has already said here, he would only use the speaking time of a whole day on his own. That is not the case either, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What bothers me very much about the continuation of this debate is the dual nature of some of the people in this House. I quote from the "Kärntner Nachrichten" of 27. ==References== Dr. Haider – asked about the letter bomb affair – said: I still suspect that Serbian intelligence has its fingers in play. Austria has always been the enemy of the Serbs, and therefore it must be destabilised. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Böhacker.]] This also helps the left in Austria to remain in power by putting the bombs in the shoes to the right liberal. Let us now ask Mr Haider's answer. In principle, it is nothing but the situation already presented by several previous speakers, from which essentially the vast majority of the house is distanced; the liberals, on the other hand, are not. I just mention the example of the Schimanek family. I believe that everyone has made a mistake, who has claimed that the father has to bear the full responsibility for his son according to a sibling's mind. That's wrong. There are a lot of fathers here, I also have two sons. Each of us, each of us, tries to provide his child with the best possible conditions, but no one knows when a child seems or does not, becomes guilty or not. Of course, one stands for his children, but I assume that every democratic and rule-of-law person, every democratic and rule-of-law father, expresses his concern at the action of his child, but at the same time takes a distance from a right-wing extreme or from a left-wing terror in the form of a corresponding gesture. And we miss this with you, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr. Haider has another statement in the "Standard" of 16. August 1995 – I quote – took place: This does not have to be a task of the SPÖ or the coalition or the left, but there are people who say: I do not want any democratic changes in Austria. – On the subject of the editor: Does that mean you think the letter bombs should prevent Jörg Haider? – To this he answered: It's possible, it's possible. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Yes, I did!]] If you're waiting for me to evaluate this, you'll have to wait a long time. It's about showing me what game you're playing there: This is not based on facts, but it is nothing but an attempt to create a problem and deliberately lead the assessment of this illustrious situation to a false track. That's reality. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Böhacker: That's incredible!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I assume that today, after we have a higher level of knowledge, we are much easier to discuss. It's not an art to be smarter afterwards. Nevertheless, the letters of confession were essentially a sign for us, from this direction it comes, in that direction it should go. That's a fact. The question now is whether you go here and say: I condemn this right-wing extremist form, or whether one gives itself as a protector of this right-wing extremist form, whose appearance is xenophobia. In the past, you of the liberals have provided us with a wealth of evidence that you do not hesitate to support xenophobia in a certain way. It is no wonder, therefore, that the analogy conclusion ultimately leads to you being able to get close to all of this. For, ladies and gentlemen, whoever with every word, who sows xenophobia with every act of political strategy, does not need to wonder what fruits he then receives. In the past they have no doubt got some of these fruits laid in front of their feet, not always in a fine and friendly way, I admit. But you never went a long way to see how these fruits actually came about. Before that, you have to produce seeds, and you do not hesitate to do so. But then you complain about the fruits that are laid in front of you. [[Abg. May. Stadler: But this was the seeds of the Socialists!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say two more sentences. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Senior Schwemlein! That was socialist seed!]] I would like to quote something, which is probably also in It's forgotten. Rainer Pawkowicz, known as a liberal in Vienna, said on 28 May. April 1995 – I deliberately quote: For the first time, ladies and gentlemen, and for the first time in the speech to the mayor of Vienna, in the history of the Republic, an interior minister himself is involved, is in the close relationship and in connection with terrorists, with whom he is even connected by the Du-Word. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Who donated the money?]] – This is a statement by Rainer Pawkovicz. And the fact that it is possible today, as it happened in the past in this House and will happen in the future, that one can make statements that one can express insults that one can defame someone that one can do all these things unpunished is a sign of what attitude is on the right side of this house. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Gregor Thaler was a friend of the One!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Gregor Thaler was a friend of Caspar One!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Gregor Thaler was a good friend of One!]] That is to be condemned, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Gregor Thaler was a good friend of Caspar One!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to say the following: [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany May. Stadler]] Whoever – no matter what person it is – fails to clarify in this House that a Minister Löschnak, a Minister One and a Minister Schlögl have done the best possible work, so that we – even if by chance – have come to this positive situation of further development in the Enlightenment as early as possible, who does not thank and acknowledge these ministers, who does not continue to inform all officials who are busy in this case, who confirms courage, toughness and endurance, who has different in mind from the investigation of this bomb series. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You are very stupid in your argument!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: He's not just stupid in his argument!]] We should be clear and clear about these people and give them courage so that we can come to an end soon.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e7597	The next speaker is Mr Anschober. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e7619	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! [[Intervocations at the SPÖ and the Freeman.]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] The calls that are crossed there speak for themselves and also document the level of part of this debate. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Now comes the moral conscience of this house!]] Mr Stadler! [[Abg. May. Stadler: Purcheller...!]] I have been thinking about what we can actually talk about in this debate. A brief introduction to you and today's speech. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] You must be terribly nervous, Mr Stadler, that you are in such aggressiveness on the run from political co-responsibility for the climate in this country! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You forgot your tie!]] You must be very, very nervous. Only that can explain this aggressiveness. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Why should we be nervous?]] But now I'm telling you the following: After the Greens' election from last Sunday, I will leave this house at the beginning of November. [[Abg. May. Stadler: He was actually a more liberal!]] [[Complaint with the liberals and reputation: This is so bad]] [[Abg. That's deep!]] The applause from this side honors me. Thank you. [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] I have met many interesting personalities and people at this time, and I am partly sorry not to have this contact and this cooperation soon. It is only in one area that I am really happy with my excretion: that is the fact that I have the power to hate the Lord. Stadler no longer needs to listen to it today. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Have you ever read through Mrs. Stoisits' hatreds?]] What do you want to talk about today? – One has to talk today about the success, the first success of the investigations. That this is not done by a certain side actually speaks volumes. One has to talk about a first investigation success, but one also has to talk about how it has happened: that it was not new methods of investigation, it was not a noise attack and a grid search that led to it, but something that should actually be a matter of course, namely, a practiced citizen approach by an executive official. An executive has responded incredibly quickly and correctly to a note. Only by this was it possible that inspector Random directed and a great and important progress was made. What appeals to me in this debate – and I would warn against that – is the attempt to hear from some speakers, and also from parts of the executive, to speak of a single perpetrator's thesis, according to the good Austrian motto: We are glad that we are one step further, all of us are glad about it, and now as much as possible a line under it. – I do not believe in these individual perpetrators for certain reasons, and I am glad that in the executive there are many who explore the environment with great acribie and look at how some major question marks can be explained. I was pleased with the second speech by the Minister Schlögl, who corrected the first speech for me a little. The first speech has gone very clearly towards individual perpetrator thesis, the second has put both options at the same level. I believe that it is precisely this way that we must now argue and act in this direction. What can we talk about today in this situation? – One can talk about how these investigations can also be politically forced. One can talk about who is interested in the fact that this terrorist case is currently reducing from some to a criminal case, the political dimension, the political environment, and the terrorist case is going from internal policy to the chronicles. This is not a coincidence, as I believe. But one can also talk about who is currently beating political change out of this terrorist case, from this terrorist series. I just remember the completely tasteless – and I don't think so – broadcast by Mr Westenthaler from Sunday, which speaks for itself and where I don't want to qualify at all. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: For four years we have made political change!]] It's beyond good and evil. One can also talk about how this political climate has come about, where terrorism can become easier, how the spiritual environment of terrorists has developed. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Who then takes over the role of moral conscience?]] We should also talk about it, Mr Stadler – and we will do so – which specific objectives the BBA has actually pursued, where she wanted to bomb Austria. [[Abg. May. Stadler: I will miss your pastoral tone!]] Keywords: threatening foreign invasion, keyword and literal quote... Mrs. Pablé! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Let us talk about the hatreds of the Greens towards the liberals!]] You know, your aggressiveness demasked It is quite simply you in this debate. That's so clear and clear. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Let's talk about the mental and political environment in which a quote from the confession letters – I quote it literally – is: In this country, the letter bombers write, people who look like us, who talk like us, who pray like us. – And we also talk about which party it is polarizing in this country, which emotionalizes, trying to make political small money with potential scapegoats. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: These are the Greens!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Well characterized!]] Let us look at the political party that has already demanded in two federal states that no public contracts should be awarded to firms employed by foreigners. And let's talk about which party it is that used the following quote in the last election campaign in Upper Austria, among other things: 88.5% of all serious crimes are committed in Upper Austria by foreigners. – Everyone in Upper Austria, every executive officer, every expert knows that this is an untruth, and yet, with such disinformation, is acted with panic. Let us talk about the consequences of such a non-responsible policy. Let us also talk about the fact that, in the run-up to the elections of last Sunday, four parties have behaved absolutely serious and decently on this issue – for me it was very interesting and positive that the Austrian People's Party has also found very clear words on this issue – and that one party, which has nevertheless tried to act with the political cue, has not been successful in the question of foreigners, even in the question of migration, and has remained 8 percent behind its outcome of the European elections. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: But we won more than the Greens!]] Let us also talk about the possibility of political success again in this Austria with solidarity, with integration and with a positive policy towards dialogue. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Minister of the Interior! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! I think, after the first results of the investigation, it is now the most important task in this country, in a serious political culture, not in the style of this debate today, to ensure that the first thing is to advance the search for political fellow-patriots and the fellow terrorists, and that, second, about the spiritual environment, about the political climate, which has encouraged terror, which has encouraged terror, which has also contributed to terrorism, is clearly and clearly spoken so that something will change in the future in the political climate in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e7889	The next speaker is Mr Amon. 10 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e7910	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Much has already been said in this debate. A number of arguments have been balanced against each other. And I think there is very little point in pouring oil into the fire of this debate, because fire has indeed been put back to life today. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Mr Amon, look, I have a bunch of quotations with me, where you poured oil into the fire! I can read it to you!]] Mr Mag. Stadler! I'll just say a few words if you give me the opportunity. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You have opportunity to apologize!]] I would like to say the following: It is noted that such a thing as relief goes through the population, because one is obviously very close to the whole of the Enlightenment and because, hopefully, one can again again soon - and that must already be said very clearly - a policy which, for example, speaks for refugees and for foreigners, without having to be afraid of it, perhaps because one represents such a position to get a bomb into the house. I would therefore like to say this because it cannot be politically instrumentalized in this case of bombing attacks. Mr. Stadler, that's what I'm with you. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Did you listen to the pillow?]] In fact, it is true that all the confessional letters that have been written – and you have to admit that you cannot say anything contrary – of course, first of all had to give the impression that the attacks have an anti-foreign background. [[Abg. May. Stadler: For naïve people!]] This fact you can't discuss away, that's the obvious access. [[Abg. May. Stadler: For simple minds already!]] However, I would like to ask a few questions in this context, because I also consider it very critical that Mr. Federal Minister One of the famous perpetrators' profile of Mr Mag. Müller held back. One has argued that there have been different positions, different opinions in the area of its resort, and he has decided to hold back the perpetrator's profile consciously. The question, however, which must be asked very well, is of course: Why did he make this decision that way? This is to be assessed politically. In any case, I believe that this question is justified, and Mr Bundesminister will have to give an answer to this question: Is the attempt of political instrumentalization in the direction of the liberals behind it, or is there another motive behind it? [[Abg. May. Stadler: Where should he give the answer? You reject the Committee of Inquiry!]] Mr. Stadler, to you. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Mr Amon, he should give the answer in an investigation committee.]] The attempt that you have started today, namely, to speak here as a standard fidelity, because the father of the suspected suspect is a social democratic I have to tell you that the council is or was, I think, abominable. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Bravo!]] You, Mr Mag. Stadler, who, in truth, criticized the left half of the empire, called it abominable, what you have done here today at the speaker's desk. And that's not all right, Mr Mag. Stadler! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: A bigger pleasure you could not have done to me!]] I would like to see a more mature access to this debate and that these terrible attacks should not be used politically from the left or from the right. I'd really like that. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: This is a real successor of the Morala Apostle Anschober!]] I also tell you why: because it is actually remarkable – and I do not take out any of the bomb victims – with what maturity these people have responded to the terrible attacks. One has to imagine what it means for a human being, whether he is sending a bomb to the house in politics, in refugee aid wherever he works, because of his mental attitude. That's crazy! I criticise a political acquisition from each side. But you of the liberals have done this quite massively. It would have been just as paradoxical to put Mr Fuchs in your corner, because perhaps he knows someone who knows someone who has once freely chosen. It really can't be. That can't be access. In fact, we must be glad that the overwhelming burden of proof presented by the Minister of the Interior today speaks very strongly for a single culprit theory or for a perhaps very small group of some crazy people and far less for a political background in these attacks. That's my conviction. Mr Mag. Stadler! I'm really trying not to do what you condemn with others.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e8079	Mr Scheibner. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e8101	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! A question to my previous speaker, Mr Amon. Who writes your press releases, or do you have such a bad memory? [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: He pushes it out!]] I cannot imagine that you believe that we have such a bad memory or that such a bad press office, when you come to the speaker's desk here and speak hypocritically, you do not seem to be blatantly opposed to Sippenhaftung and criticise Mr Stadler. Mr Amon! Read what you're sending out on 7 July. In October 1994 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the protection of Should I read it to you if you don't know for yourself? . Mr Amon, in this issue because of these attacks by the FPÖ, argues that she has lured fascists out of the reserve. He asked the question to FPÖ representatives such as Haider and the Lower Austrian FPÖ politician Hans Jörg Schimanek senior and Barbara Rosenkranz if it makes her happy if her policy now bears the decent fruit. Mr Amon! What if not sheep liability to Hans Jörg Schimanek senior or Barbara Rosenkranz? What have they broken other than that Hans Jörg Schimanek senior has a son who represents a policy that we do not all represent? And from this policy he has also distanced himself x-fold! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Amon, I would ask you not to go to the speaker's desk here, like others, and to speak out in a shambles against scepticism, and to forget completely what you all have listed from this speaker's desk in the last three years and in press releases in that country when it came to instrumentalizing precisely these questions! We have not voted in favour of the arrest of the sifters, we have only pointed out that if we were to establish such standards as you, the SPÖ would have a joint responsibility for these attacks. – The same game you made with us. Mr Amon! We're against this sheep liability. But your memory is obviously so bad that you have forgotten all that you have broken in the last three years. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Leikam! I can't imagine you really believe everything you said from the speaker's desk. [[Abg. Leikam: Yes, I am convinced of it!]] If you are convinced of this, I must say that it does not surprise me – and I say this out of deep conviction; Mr Jarolim has spoken of various people who have social-democratic roots – and I am also aware of why tens of thousands of true social democrats have turned away from your party over the last ten years, namely social democrats, for whom the word "justice" is still a value, justice and truth, colleague Leikam! [[Complaints with the liberals]] You have said in your speech that no one in this Parliament has accused the liberals over the last three years that they are co-responsible in these attacks, in these acts of violence. Mr Leikam! I recommend reading the Stoneographic Protocol of 20. Meeting of the National Council of the XIX. legislative period, 8. ==References== Mr Leikam! At that time, there was a debate that only supported direct and indirect accusations and political instrumentalization of these terrible crimes. Do not go here today and do not say that all of this has not been so. Don't go here hypocritical and don't say you have nothing to do with it, and that wouldn't have happened. Read this log, then you know what responsibility you have loaded. [[Abg. Leikam: The Right Scene!]] You've been insecured for three years, you've been scared in this country, and you've suspected a million people of compassion. That's what you have to answer! We would have expected you to admit this to us today! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! You have rightly said in your speech that it must be acknowledged that the population and democracy have not been influenced by these attacks. But, Mr Federal Minister and ladies and gentlemen, have you ever doubted this? Have you ever believed that this Austrian parliamentary democracy is so weak that it can be destabilised by such crimes? Did you really believe that? - Maybe you don't. [[The speaker looks towards Federal Minister Mag. Schlögl.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I'm going to quote something now – it's the real scandal, and you can see in what background policy has been made. I am going to quote to you what the clubman of the Socialist Group, Kostelka, said in this debate, just in the direction you have now mentioned. As a summary of his speech, Mr Kostelka said: "With the bombs in Oberwart and in Stinatz, the illusion was also destroyed that after 1945 we built a democracy which rests so much in itself that it can no longer be exposed to danger." He also considered that the people of Austria are susceptible to extremism and xenophobia. Ladies and gentlemen! One has to imagine what that means. The clubman of the Social Democratic Party here in Parliament says that he has doubts that, after 1945, democracy is so fortified that it can no longer be brought out of balance by these bombing attacks. This is a scandal of first order, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We believe in this democracy, Mr Klubobmann, but you do not seem to be! You will have your reasons. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: That's where you wake up early! You've taken a long time.]] [[Abg. Leikam: How was the "abortion"?]] In the same debate, the former Madam President, the clubwoman of the Liberal Forum, Heide Schmidt, comes out and goes one step further – also on the question of political instrumentalization, ladies and gentlemen! It goes so far as to say that Austria is at the pre-war stage! At the stage of the "prewar", that is, as Austria was in the period between the two world wars! Ladies and gentlemen! A better – or rather: a worse – example of how to instrumentalise these crimes, how to try to create a climate of fear and political opposition here, can really not be brought. These are the things that we have expected you to comment on today. Mr Kier – he just smiles so strangely! You too have said that these accusations would never have existed. It was you, Mr Kier, who, at the time, took a comment from the context in a debate by our clubman and set up a Europe-wide campaign, because it must not be possible for liberals to distance themselves from such acts of violence. Even that was not too bad for you to misuse this speech for your party political interests at the time. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Leikam! These quotations could continue for some time. What Mr Löschnak did as Minister was at all the "best". At the time, when the liberals had asked why the liberal party observer would not be protected, he said that it could be concluded from the occasion and from the background that Haider, in particular, should not be afraid. That is what the Minister said, ladies and gentlemen. Today we know about the real backgrounds. But that's the way it goes. Col. Pilz – thank God no longer working here in the House – said: The spiritual trail of right-wing extremism leads to the FPÖ. [[Abg. Wabl: That's not wrong!]] Mrs Petrovic said: Whoever is involved in this political climate, which leads to radicality and violence, is responsible for it. This is how it goes – Cap, Heide Schmidt, Stoisits, all these debates could be quoted. Ladies and gentlemen! Minister of the Interior! I think one thing is clear: The investigations have not yet been completed, and we hope that all the backgrounds of all bombing attacks can now be clarified. For example, the connection with Ebergassing is still completely unexplained. Where have the bombs been made from Ebergassing? What background do these perpetrators have? Is there any cross-links to this? – It is clear that this one – as I would like to say under quotation marks – had no right-wing radical background. He would have gotten such a thing in the public discussion if it had worked. But there are cross-border links that are not discussed at all today. All of this should now come to the fore. Ladies and gentlemen! As there has always been talk about human rights and the rights of citizens, I would like to point out the following: Where, then, were the rights of citizens when it came to circumscribing innocent, innocent people into their citizens' rights? – Mr Stadler has already pointed out that an elaborate of a private association – the documentation archive – was taken as a Bible and said: If Mr. Neugebauer claims that the perpetrator must have been an "AULA" subscriber, then immediately the entire state apparatus will be put into action, and it will be carried out across the circle of all subscribers house searches – no matter how old the people are, no matter if this suspicion is justified. Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! I would like you to condemn such actions as you are always very sensitive when it comes to your friends – purchellers and consorti such as Kufner et cetera. There you are from a hypocrisy that is insurmountable, and there you might rather consider what direct and indirect links there are with these terrorists. [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to say: It should be learned that there is no justification for terrorism and radicalism, even if it has a political mesh that cannot be weighed here, and we should fight it with all our strength. But we as politicians have a responsibility to bear, namely the responsibility to inform, and at the same time we have responsibility to bear in mind that oil is not poured into the fire here, but is calmed down, and that there are no Party-politically motivated discussions to create fear and horror in the population and to hinder the police surveys. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You should learn this from the social democrats in particular.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e8257	Mr Scheibner! It is indisputable that practice in the issue of calls for regulations has become a little more generous. In your speech, you addressed to two Members in this House the accusation of hypocrisy, and there were times... Mr. Dr. Krüger! [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: But the proof of truth has clearly been done!]] Let me talk to you. There have been times when this expression in this House has been accused of calling for order. Let me conclude from the fact that I do not give you a call for order, not an encouragement to continue in the use of this accusation. It would rather be good if we did not use this word in the debates. You understand, Dr. Krüger? - Good. The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Stoisits. 10 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e8286	Poštovane lady i gospodo! Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] 25 letter bombs, three pipe bombs, four dead, numerous serious injuries, numerous minor injuries – this is the inconvenient balance sheet and the inconvenient outcome of these events of the past – almost – four years. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Believe me, hardly anyone has breathed up as much as I did in the media, that Mr Franz F. has been taken as a suspected perpetrator or fellow perpetrator of the largest terrorist act, the largest terrorist series of the Second Republic. As the Federal Minister has told us today, the evidence against him and his possible culprits are now compacting. Ladies and gentlemen! However, those affected by the 25 letter bombs and those affected by the three pipe bomb attacks, especially their relatives and family members, will not really breathe until black on white is demonstrated and it can be found that, as has been thought today, it has actually been a single culprit and that not a group is behind this greatest terrorist act, it may have been so small – which I do not necessarily believe. On a day like today when the Federal Minister gave us information on the state of investigation and, in his statement, made some very remarkable findings, according to the finding of the consignee and consignee group of these bombs, the finding of who these people are, is clearly the place to note: These numerous activists, which I now wish to sum up under the term "human rights movement" – I think is acceptable, even in the sense of your characterization, and this includes both the members of the ethnic groups, as well as priests, politicians, doctors, refugee workers or foreigners – have all shown a little respect for me as a politician over the last four years. I am referring to the will not to be intimidated by bomb terror, not to keep up with work, not to admit it small and not to say: I have to withdraw and stop my work because the danger to myself and my family is too great. This is what – in addition to the encouraging cooperation of the Austrian population in the now possible information – represents a significant achievement. This also applies to the previously unsuccessful investigators. But I know how much, how long and how intensive the investigators worked, since I had enough to do with them. That they did not have the corresponding success is not the responsibility of each individual, but, as I would like to say, the responsibility of the individual. But this self-intimidating-lethargy, this continuation causes me to draw some conclusions. What is our responsibility now as a parliamentarian and your responsibility, ladies and gentlemen on the government bank? – Today’s responsibility is to counteract an enhanced polarization that has been done through this series of terrors. Policy always has the task of preventing and restricting polarization, but not of doing the opposite. But what is happening today in the National Council and what has been presented by the FPÖ is exactly the opposite. This strengthens the polarization that we see in our society – shaped by this series of terrors. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Who has polarized in the past? You've been polarizing!]] De-olidarisation is increasing in many areas. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: For four years you have polarized! Now you've fallen on your nose!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! On the other hand, today it is so terrifying for those affected and for possible other victims that I am very scared. [[Abg. Haigermoser: How many voters did you have in Stinatz?]] Your contribution to the debate, Mr Federal Minister, in which you reported a letter bomb attack, has strengthened me. [[Abg. Haigermoser: How many voters have you had there?]] Federal Minister! Not only are we afraid of real bombs and of real physical impairment of people, we had and still must have, as long as this is not clarified. Ladies and gentlemen! What scares me is the clandestine predicaments that come from the populace. [[Abg. Haigermoser: You're scaring us!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] It is the letters that my colleagues in the Green Club get and I also get, in which a division can be found like: "After the next time, it's going to rush." [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] Ladies and gentlemen! That's what we have to work against today. Those who have exposed themselves are exposed by their commitment to humanity and human rights, or simply by the fact that they belong to a people's group or, like the doctor from Stronsdorf, are naturalized, native Austrians, we must support. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In this respect, I address the appeal and the request to all of you to carry out the task of policy and to counter the dangers. The fact that it will not be achieved with the FPÖ in this Republic has proved today more than strongly. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But if we today – some speakers from the ÖVP and the Federal Minister and his colleagues from the SPÖ Group have done so – are to make us believe that the all-healing agent for the Enlightenment of Terrorist Acts would be grid arrest and noise attack – repressive instruments against civil rights in this country – then I would like to point out something else to you, Mr Federal Minister, then I would like to ask you the question: [[Abg. Dr. Graf: I don't understand at all why One is still a minister!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Why isn't Caspar a minister of the interior when he was the best of all times?]] Faith It is true that without these acts of terror, it would have been possible to strike through noise attacks and grievances as it happened this year? That's what these perpetrators or these perpetrators have done about the physical impairment of people in this Republic. The climate has changed. But it didn't change for the better. If we sum up today and think about it, we have to ask ourselves the question: Is it not the aim of the perpetrators to find out how far xenophobicity and how far xenophobics can go? How far can minority enemies go in their means of expression? If it is consciously and unconsciously supported by political parties in this Republic that xenophobia, xenophobia and xenophobia will become a saloon, then those who do so will be on the way to bringing democracy in Austria and the stability that the Second Republic has awarded in the fundamental festivals day after day – quite consciously and deliberately, ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to say a word about the Director-General for Public Security, and I would also like to speak to Mr Kiss, who spoke in this context about the "discovery of the perpetrator's profile". With the word "discipline" the Federal Minister and his predecessor will probably have to deal with each other. I am not the ex-official defender of ministers, but would like to make it clear to you once again what this accusation means. If, moreover, he has quoted the Director-General for Public Security here with the words – I quote now Kiss – "Sika: I have always warned of political dimensions," then allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to warn the Director-General for Public Security, in spite of my appeal and my request to the security authorities – and I now deliberately say this – about this. If the Director-General for Public Security has still not recognised the political dimension of these crimes, what is it otherwise, if not a political motive, that lies behind when looking at the letters of confession? We do not have to quote them again now; anyone who has been involved knows them. The intentions and motives were always known to us, you, Federal Minister, as well as all of us. We know what purposes the perpetrators or the perpetrators have pursued. If, in this situation, the top investigators in the largest criminal case of the Second Republic warn of the political dimension, then something is wrong! Federal Minister! I ask you: Go inside and think about whether the present situation, in which there is so much uncertainty, is actually a really suitable starting point for the restless investigation of these crimes! – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e8448	As the last speaker, Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé has reported. 10 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e8469	Ladies and gentlemen! I too am very much relieved that a step has obviously been taken in the attack of the bomb culprit. It is a very big step if we do not yet know exactly whether complete clarification is possible. But it is also necessary for us to talk about the political environment in the past and also about what has happened in Parliament today. I think we have to talk about why, for example, Mrs Stoisits, she is afraid of all that is happening here. Their own diffamations to the liberals, however, do not seem to frighten them! It has also stated that it is necessary to improve the soil so that violence cannot exist at all. Mrs Stoisits! I'll give you the following: Try to do educational work in your area, with the extreme groups of the left, for example at the peace workshop links, at the "TATblatt", at the Revolutionsbrauhof, because from there there is constant violence! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I think it is also necessary to talk about Mr Anschober saying that he is glad that he can go to Upper Austria because he can no longer live with the hate-hirds with whom the liberals consider everyone else. – Mr Anschober can live very well with the hatreds of his own party towards us! Mrs. Lunacek, for example, says that the liberals were subject to a quarantine. Mrs Stoisits says that the liberals belonged to exiled from Austria at all. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wabl.]] We hear one hatred after another, but Mr Anschober now suddenly has to go to Upper Austria because he no longer holds our hat-irads. At last try to stop this violence in your club and in your own party, Mr. Anschhober! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But even with other parliamentarians, the frustration that the plan did not go up to the liberals in the vicinity of the bombers has obviously assumed such magnitudes that Mr Leikam, for example, claimed that we ourselves had been manoeuvring into the suspicions that the right-wing scene and also the liberals had to do with the bomber. He also said that for Jörg Haider, violence is not a stranger to the implementation of his political objectives. Mr. Leikam! What entitles you to such shameless precepts? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[Call to the liberals: for this is a call for order!]] What leads you to such a political community, Mr Leikam? I really want to know that! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Calls and calls to the SPÖ and the Freeman.]] Is any means really right for you?
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e8538	Excuse me, Mrs. Deputies. Ladies and gentlemen! It is now speaking of the last speaker in this debate, and we will also bring this debate to an end properly, as it corresponds to our debate culture. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Mr President! Leikam really said that! He confirms that!]] Please, ladies and gentlemen, continue!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e8564	Are you, Mr Leikam, and the rest of the SPÖ and all those who have spoken here really right to defame the liberals and their federal party, just because you cannot accept that we have nothing to do with right-wing extremism at all? If you don't understand our outrage, I ask you: Have you forgotten all that's been pushed into our shoes? Did you really forget all this? . My colleagues have already quoted today which suspicions went in our direction. It's clear to me: You see that you are at the end of your socialist policy that voters find no credibility in your policy, and now you are trying to save some coals from the fire with a further diffamation of the liberals! But I am convinced that you will not be happy with this, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I must also tell you: I can't hear all your grueling speeches here in Parliament anymore! Members of Kier, Leikam and so on go in one – I must not say it, but I still say it – in a hypocritical way when they throw and defamate the liberals at the beginning of their speech, speak of hateirads and all kinds of things, but always end their speech in an arrogance. For example, Mr Leikam said that the whole thing must not be allowed to make a party-political struggle, which is not an appropriate means of doing so. - I'll give you the right! But you have beaten political capital out of this whole thing during your entire speech! [[Abg. Koppler: Have you heard Stadler?]] And Mr Kier has said – and he has attacked my colleague Stadler in particular – that such debates as they are being conducted today are the basis for further attacks. Ladies and gentlemen! In Parliament, you have always spread violence and hatred, and never the liberals, I would like to tell you today! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] Deputies Kier! Mr President. I would also like to ask you to listen to me! Mr Kier has even risen to claim that Mr Graf has the typical perpetrator's behaviour. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Incredible!]] Mr Kier! I have your speech here: "He who always feels himself meant in self-punishment puts a typical culprit's behavior." And that's how it goes! Mr President. You have threatened to call for an order because of the use of the term "hypocritical" but because of this accusation, you have not given Mr Kier a call for order! I think that's really a scandal! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Deputies Kier! I ask you: How liberal are you? Do you really feel it politically decent if you accuse Mr Graf of having a typical perpetrator's behaviour? Do you know what you're gonna do with it? Now you're laughing! But how would you react if we were to accuse you of a perpetrator's behavior similar to that of a bomb culprit? Would you like to laugh? – Yes, you look like you’d still laugh! That's right for you! That's your culprit's behavior! That's your typical culprit's behavior! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! You should take the debate today to the point of apologising for the liberties. You should apologise for having constantly pushed us into a corner for years, even though you knew exactly that we did not belong there. You have brought us to the close of assassins, although you have known that this is absolutely wrong! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You should apologize today! That would be a democratic behaviour, as I would imagine, ladies and gentlemen. But I know you don't have this size, you're missing! And in your great despair that you can no longer play your favorite game, that is to say, the liberals in the vicinity of right-wing extremists, you are still on the rise in this debate to make debt allocations by claiming that we are still connected with violence, ladies and gentlemen. I'll advise you: Try it once with honest political work and not with diffamation, then you would have more success!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e8660	We now have a speech in this debate. She's from Mr. Dr. Haider. [[Intercession with the liberals.]] Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé! I have created a small collection of formulations that have fallen into this debate today. We will have the opportunity to discuss this issue again in the next presidential opportunity. This is not the first debate of this kind. However, I would like to ask that we finally take consequences from such discussions and commit ourselves to moderation on all sides. Mr Haider. — (DE) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e8690	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! If one has followed today's debate a little, then one has the feeling, Mr Oellinger, that today you have had to drive a pretty slalom to forget how you have been very generous and brutal in the assignment of guilt towards the liberals on very other occasions. If Mrs Stoisits has spoken here of "political little money" and Mr Anschober has said that it is tasteless what the liberals are doing, then I can remind you of some of your tastelessness, Mrs Stoisits, because you seem to have a short memory. ==References== In October 1994, all known texts in connection with the new wave of letters were wordless with the election statements of the FPÖ and its chairman Jörg Haider. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Incredible!]] That means you made a very conscious contact. Mrs Stoisits! ==References== In a debate here in the House on April 1995, you would like the leaders of this party to be sentenced to 20 years in prison in Austria. Your speech, Mrs Stoisits! [[Abg. May. Stadler: Yes, you said that!]] For 20 years you wanted to arrest those who are making sure that things are clarified today, so that left terror is no longer possible in Austria and that there is no one-sided debt allocations possible here! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] 20 years you want us locked up for having dared to keep your own mirror! You just forget that too much! That is why I say to you: You certainly didn't make an all too convincing figure today. Because now you're just taking a closer look at saying: Every action that is xenophobic promotes a terrible climate! – That’s what I’m really asking myself: Who is the subject of being a stranger? There is, for example, the statement of an Austrian Chancellor who recently resigned and who, when Mr Central Secretary Cap was still in office, said: We do not need Polish and Czech salami dealers on Austrian roads. – This is not against foreigners, but totally okay when it comes from the SPÖ. If that were to be said by the liberals, it would be disastrous! Mr Cap himself said that he would like the foreigners who want to go to Austria to wait 24 hours for running engines on the Austrian border, because then they have a desire to enter Austria. – This is not at all hostile to foreigners, it does not create any hostile climate at all! Or: Mr Marizzi said: The boat is full. – Woe to the liberal who says that! That would, of course, be hostile to foreigners. With you, it is state-political responsibility, not at all a question! You are the super-democratic who do not promote this climate! Mr Busek said two days before a election he lost: All illegals are immediately postponed. – Imagine, Freer would say: All illegals are immediately postponed! Mr Häupl, the mayor of Vienna, said he wanted an action plan square against all foreigners in Austria in order to capture the illegals. And then his city council president Scholz said he did not want to live in a country where foreigners are being fought with planquadrates. He did not know, however, that Mr Häupl himself called for this in the council! [[Abg. Marizzi: You are responsible for employment policy in the Third Reich!]] – You were in the boat, no question, dear Marizzi! That's why I'm saying: This spiritual environment, which is always criticized here by saying: All parties are free of guilt, only a few have charged guilt!, that will be very clear with you! When elections come, you will become more and more extreme in relation to foreigners because you are afraid to lose a few voices. After that, however, you are again the great humanists who open the borders, and everything is dazzling. This is a double strategy that doesn't work! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This spiritual environment is created by a false policy that overpowers the Austrians. If you need to open the municipal buildings for foreigners in Vienna and wait for the Austrians, you must not wonder if the spiritual environment is no longer right! A corresponding spiritual environment will be created if political parties such as the Greens, including you, still have applause, may have sympathy for the Ebergassinger terrorists. You've always applauded all of them. It has already been forgotten that in connection with Ebergassing there is still information work to be done. They have forgotten that the Greens have provided money and their office in Vienna for the "TATblatt" associated with the Ebergassinger Group. That means: Your party, ladies and gentlemen, has a spiritual environment of terrorism that you cannot deny! They've done a common cause with violent agents, and they're pretending to have forgotten all of this for a long time. But we will make sure that this will not be forgotten! They are, as it were, the spiritual primevals of this terrorism in Austria! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Then you say: Mr One is no longer at the point of discussion, which is basically to be defended. He has now become a minister of another department. I must apologize to those who have attacked one of the Lords. – I really wonder what reason you say that. I think that the SPÖ should rather apologize to the Austrians for the policy that has been possible under one. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Yes!]] For if everything had been so palette, they would not have had to withdraw it from the Ministry of the Interior! This is also an indication that something has not voted. Otherwise you would not have done any government reform, no question at all! I therefore believe that we should be more apologising to that blind woman who has become victims of your indictment policy, where you have entered the house and who has been put under pressure because Mr. One has been prosecuted according to the wrong crime profile! Or you should apologize to a 94-year-old university professor who is being questioned just because he reads "Aula". A 94-year-old university professor is being questioned! [[Intrusion of the Abg. You son of a bitch.]] Mr Schwamlein! You might want to apologize... [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] You think that's crazy funny! It's really crazy fun to tyrannize old people! That's crazy good! You might also have to apologize to your own party friend Dr. Zilk, who has repeatedly said: As long as one's in the Interior Ministry, it's not gonna be cleared up. That's what Zilk said! You should apologise for this, but do not ask us to apologize to those who have sowed terror and violence! You should perhaps also apologize to Mr Sika, who was ultimately put under pressure! Which society are you in this Federal Government? That is my question to the Austrian People's Party. In which society You are? You criticize Mr. One and say, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, But he's now a minister of another department. – That’s what I really ask: It seems to me that, from your point of view, Mr Kiss, he has committed an abuse of power, but you say that he may continue to be allowed to remain in the government. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I'm careful! Mr Koppler! I do not think it is laughing that the suppression of a criminal profile leads to the fact that we do not have any information work in the right direction for months, even though the Director-General for Public Security on 12 May. January 1996 has already said: [[Complaints with the liberals]] We're looking for a trained chemist who knows technical know-how at the letter bombs. He has already described in detail what profile was asked. But he was not allowed to be determined. One was responsible. He suppressed these things. Today, in an interview, Sika says: I have been put under psychological pressure so that I do not do any investigation work in the right direction. – That means you have a minister who has committed gross abuse, and this you do the wall! I'm just wondering: What would you do if someone was a building minister and caught in corruption in the award of orders? Then put him in the family ministry and say: So the story is planned? – You have gone into a fine society! You could have stayed with the scientists, because you should not have gone to this society, Mr Kiss! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That is why I say to you: We liberals have rightly asked the Federal Chancellor today to elect Minister One. For we believe that what is found here is difficult enough – and this has also been confirmed by you yourself – and that such a person, who has done real damage to this republic and to the people of that country and has suffered the security interests of the population, cannot and cannot be in an Austrian Federal Government!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e8820	There are other words available. Mr Cap is the next person to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e8841	Mr President. High house! The question arises whether one should go to the level that Mr Stadler and Mr Haider have brought here in the House, or whether one should not. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You don't come to these heights at all!]] I think that the speech of the Minister for the Interior has given us something that was carried out by a high level of political responsibility, and I believe that the seriousness of the events should continue to be accepted and that we should try to find a way together to deal with all of this. But you obviously don't want that! They're going to sit here and just want a victim. You want to find a culprit, you want to find a compliment. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: What makes you conclude this?]] You've been doing this for a long time with Minister One you once accused of a drug offence. [[Abg. May. Stadler: We don't want to find innocent people, but guilty people!]] He was in a prison in Zwettl. It turned out, however, that it was wrong that this was a political attempt to discredit him. Why to operate You're such a policy? What is behind it? – I can tell you: This is the strategy of destruction of reputation, the destruction of personal prestige! [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: That's what you're doing!]] This is a kind of political debate that falls under "spiritual preparation". [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But you want more, and that is the dishonesty of your discussion! You must know that there are also consequences for confidence in the political institutions if you go about representatives of this Republic and on representatives of other parties in this form. I have meant this before with state-political responsibility in difficult situations, such as this one, for example. They claim, however, that they want to take the lead in this country. They claim to exercise government power here once. That is why I can only tell you: We will do everything we can to prevent a threat to the foundations of our Republic and democracy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Every means is right for that!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Mr Dr. Haider! I'm asking you now: Do you remember your statement you once made? – I quote Haider: "I find it embarrassing that 180 000 unemployed have been reported and are still 140 000 guest workers in the country." They spoke of "guest workers", not illegal immigrants or criminal foreigners, no, of guest workers who were received from us historically, even formally called, because they were important to the economy and were crucial to economic growth. The message of your statement is: Get her out of this land! And here you want to present yourself as a democrat? Stand by that statement you made! This is spiritual preparation, Dr. Haider! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Haider.]] If you are then criticized by political opponents, then again comes the strategy of destroying reputation, and if the journalists or the media do, then everything will be called into question at all! Remember the statement you made in the "profile" 1993: If we have more to say, we will ensure that there is no more lying in the editorial offices. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: That's it!]] What would you have done to one of us if he had said that? They are also shaking here at the foundations of democratic understanding! You have also shuddered here at the fundamental festivals of journalistic freedom! And then put yourself here and distribute censorships over democracy! It's immense what you're doing here! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] What you are giving here concerning Minister One of your own is just the continuation of what has been happening for a long time. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Have you had the speech of Jarolim removed?]] I tried earlier to evaluate this: Whether it is about ebergassing, whether it is Zwettl or whether there are several other accusations: Her grand inquisitor Stadler keeps trying to do his destructive work. It was to be expected that you will not practice this criticism, but how otherwise you will assess the speech of Mr Stadler, in which he has finally created a compliment that has gone far beyond the previous strategy of compliment theory by including the parents and the whole environment of the Franz Fuch and trying to discredit an entire party, as is otherwise said to be the creation of a climate of loathing, hatred and rejection. That's a lot of what you've done here. And I'm missing the evaluation. Mr. Haider can still pretend to be a moral entity. However, it is not in his attacks, nor is he refusing to criticize such derailments as Mr Stadler's today. I therefore come to another point which is of particular importance in this context: I have not expected you to practice self-criticism, but I have expected you to be at least once ready to make statements that you may want to forget by hiding here and again in a democratic and state-political coat, yet once again self-critically working up and saying: I would rather not have said this, or Mr Stadler would not have said it, or colleague Partik-Pablé, who is turning back to the screw of polarization today and wants to continue Mr Stadler's slander and defamation strategy, would not have said so! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Why don't you say this about your own press releases?]] Why Behavior You're like that? What is the concept behind this? What kind of thinking do you lead? – I can tell you: It's the motto: Hold the thief! You want to make the whole institution, the politics, the other parties not only bad out of a short-term calculation, but you want to destroy because you want to come to power in this way. And you can only face that with the hardest resistance! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Remember the "light sea" as a demonstration of those who then opposed your foreign people's desire! [[Abg. Haigermoser: "Austria first" folk desires it was called!]] You have called this rally, as tens of thousands of democrats have opposed the Hofburg, "Lichterldemonstration"! Do you remember the events you performed in the context of this foreign people's desire? [[Abg. Haigermoser: "Austria first" said that!]] It was not about diligent and lazy foreigners, legals and illegals, but you have tried not only to arouse the lowest instincts but to use them for your policy! They have tried to sow hatred and discord. In view of this, I ask myself: How can anyone who has made politics and finally has to do with it – this can be seen by recalling the last beer race in Upper Austria – continue to do with politics here at the speaker's desk as if he were a political, moral or otherwise any instance? - It's not him! It is time for your group to finally have a critical discussion about your clubman and his cello, who is now representing a harder business than the clubman has done so far! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You're a dreamman!]] That is why I come to the very last point: Today, you have developed the famous socialization theory and said, of course, a Nazi father can have a far-left son and, of course, a left-wing father can have a right-wing extreme son, or there may be any variations. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You have broken down very much, Mr Cap!]] We know of course what kind of environment you come from, Dr. Haider! But I will keep your statement on the ordinary employment policy in the Third Reich because it is not a coincidence for me! [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's a lot of slippery!]] You don't hear this statement, but he's not slipped off! [[Abg. Dr. Haider: How long will you go home with this?]] I find this statement particularly disrespectful, considering what that meant. Forced labor was an important institution so that the Second World War could last so long. With regard to ordinary employment policies in the Third Reich, therefore, environmental theory obviously is true! It is high time that you made it clear that you really are part of your policy, that you are explaining this here too, and that you are, above all, turning away from a method of discussion which repeatedly allows these suspicions and these interpretations, so that in our speeches – rightly, please – we have this criticism. That would be your job to do this. That's not what you're doing, so you're gonna be You do not achieve this credibility you would like to have, therefore You continue to stay out of the democratic constitution and must stay, even if you are reluctant to hear it. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Are you also on the go in a political election campaign?]] You've turned yourself out, you've been out of your way. And if you always say, "Sorry and whining." Please, let us be here at last!, you have to answer: You've set yourself apart. Today's procedure and the procedure before the summer are also the best proof that you are refusing to go to the cultural level at which this has to be done in this democratic game. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: This is very unpleasant for you!]] You don't want that! And as long as you don't want to, you belong to where you are today. Therefore, you will also encounter the toughest resistance from us – on every occasion that offers us.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e9149	The honourable Member is now speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Kammerlander. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e9171	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. In fact, I would just like to say so much to the Members of the Liberal Party today that their attempt at the distraction they have started with the last words has been thoroughly missed. [[Abg. Haigermoser: I am not your colleague!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: I refuse to be called a colleague by you! I reject it!]] You only have to keep in mind one thing, only one thing: Who has received a letter bomb from the Members here? Did you get one, or did my fellow Petrovic and Stoisits get a letter bomb? [[Abg. May. Stadler: Maybe we're already suspicious because we haven't got any!]] Consider once again – my previous speakers have already pointed out – from what political responsibility, out of which mind the confessional letters were formulated and from which these letter bombs were clearly assigned. [[Abg. Scheibner: So what is now?]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: So are you responsible?]] Consider also the political responsibility and the role of political responsibility to which it is here, and then you will save yourself your distraction maneuvers, with which you try in the last minute to act in the direction of the green party, which has always clearly distanced itself from any kind of terror. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: What do we want to distract it from?]]
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e9279	Mr Mag. Stadler has spoken a second time. Your speaking time is 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e9300	Mr President. High house! Dear colleague Cap! Dear Old-68 Cap! That is to say, you are the comrade of the Lord Fuch; I do not know if you have noticed it. [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] Dear Old-68 Cap! He's not one of us. I'm not 68. I don't know 68s in there! His school friend said he was an old-68er. You're an old-68er, too. You're always proud of it. I can still remember Mr Cap going to campaign with a Palestinian scepticism against the neck when he was fighting for a direct mandate. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: He didn't have it around his neck! It was always new!]] Later on, he wore a mesh. But he's an old-68er, he's always been, he's always stressed that. It has nothing to do with us, believe me! This is not our attitude, which the Lord Fuchs has. You can turn it and turn it around as you like, and your sauna talk will not use anything you've kept now. This was precisely the second one, namely the cold end of what Mr Jarolim has already said. Exactly the same speech! I have taken them out because he has allowed himself a few incredible miscarriages. It's the same thing. He even gave you the speech. Please don't go so far as to get the speeches from a clubmate, and one from the back seat. You used to be better, dear Josef Cap. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Not only prescribing, but also prescribing!]] Caspar One of his arrests in the Waldviertel was very consciously suing the wrong court – and that too late. Explain this to me now, how serious Caspar To one of them takes his defense against the accusation! Too late and in the wrong court – after all such a coincidence, ladies and gentlemen. He doesn't want any judicial clarification at all. It is also remarkable that Mr Cap said today: We will prevent these things from being clarified. You said that! You have said that you will prevent these things from being clarified. [[Abg. Mother: Blank nonsense! It's white nonsense!]] It was you, dear, it was you who applauded when the woman Stoisits at that time demanded 20 years of imprisonment alone for being even more freer. This is a liberal attitude! That's the ultra-democratic! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: This is democracy!]] This is democracy brand Cap. My dear Joseph, I want to tell you something: On the "Constitutional Arch", which you have conspired today – a construction by Mr. Khol – we are happy to abandon this "Constitutional Arch" with the terrorist line. [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e9393	Mr Wabl has now spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e9415	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Fekter! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: I hear!]] Your call, I would no longer convince you today, will encourage me especially. – Oh, that was from colleague Bauer, excuse me! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: It has the same voice!]] I didn't pay too much attention to it. Ladies and gentlemen! I went to this school where Mr. Fuchs also went, and I was only 16... [[Abg. May. Stadler: Are you also an old-68er?]] I'm not a 68er, but I've been politicalized at that time. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You were a socialist like your father!]] My father was a social democratic mayor. I have a classic biography. I'd probably be there in the Rasterfachung, too. [[Abg. May. Stadler: But you're not 50 yet!]] Mr Stadler, I know you find this very funny. When you opened your speech here today and said it was a social democratic comrade who made the letter bombs, I thought: What drives a man who calls himself a Member to make such claims, a man who is still pretending that he wants to strengthen the Christian values for his party program? [[Abg. May. Stadler: It's true!]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] What drives a man out of here who openly admits to being the sharp dog of the leader? [[Abg. May. Stadler: The facts drive me!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I often have the impression that individual Members from your ranks are being wronged. I have more often the impression that many voters you choose – consciously or unconsciously or ignorantly – will be wronged. [[Abg. May. Trattner: They're all down!]] No, I don't have the impression that they're all down, I have the impression that they're very often ignorant. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Yes, yes!]] They know a lot of things, but they don't know many things either. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Like the green voters!]] Yeah, I think it happens a lot. There are also people who choose the Greens and do not know that these represent very certain positions which they themselves cannot actually represent and choose. It often happens. They then no longer choose green, which then choose freely, for example. That's what happens. There are voters who are mistaken. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: More and more!]] I have the impression - I tell you quite openly - that you are often wronged, but please, what you have offered here today and also you, Mr Haider, this is simply a quality that is new to me. It's new to me! [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: What do you say to Mr Leikam? What is that quality? Is that better?]] Mr Stadler! It is positive about this whole discussion, and I also think it is positive for the party landscape of Austria that there is no party that loves terror, that there is no party that approves of terrorism. That is a positive fact in our Republic, ladies and gentlemen, because that was not always the case. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Why didn't you say that two years ago?]] But the question is whether a certain climate has arisen in this country, for which several have provided, not just liberal Members. Mr President, I should like to thank In recent years, in recent decades, we have very often discussed critically why a certain attitude can suddenly become so strong. Not only the FPÖ can be responsible for this. But today, here and now, in my opinion, there is only one party that is so pronouncing exactly a certain line in relation to human rights, in connection with foreigners, in connection with our history. And this, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals, has nothing to do with the fact that you have now become criminal, that has nothing to do with your now in favour of terror, but you are obviously unsuspecting in a very specific area of your political responsibility. For what is it when I meet free voters on the street and say to me: If the haider is on the row, you won't be there anymore! If the haider's on the row, they'll all be locked in!Unknown term type: "%s".? Now I do not make you directly responsible for it, I do not say that you have caused it, but you have been promoting with your kind of policy of this kind of thinking! And that's the problem! [[Congratulation with the greens as well as with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Your Members say this inside, not on the street! In there she says it!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Two weeks ago, an article appeared in the German weekly magazine "Die Zeit" entitled "Populists in Europe". The new portrait of Jörg Haider". [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: The Stoisits want to lock me up!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: 20 years of imprisonment for every liberal!]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: 20 years of imprisonment, she said!]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if she said so, I do not think it was sensible. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You say that!]] Yes, I think this is a statement that was not particularly appropriate, but I understand that sometimes you say things that are not right here at the speaker's desk because of your provocations. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Oh, you understand! Get it, too!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Would ten years have been right?]] [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: 20 years are too many, but ten years, that fits!]] I wanted to correct Mrs Partik-Pablé's strange statement that Mrs Stoisits had claimed that the liberals were banished from Austria. I allowed myself the evil remark that would not go. Who would take her? [[Lively cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: No one would take you!]] Yeah, I know. I also keep sayings like "Nazis out of Austria!" for a stupidity, for we ourselves have to deal with our people and solve things together. That's my conviction! But now to the spirit you're spreading. This article, published two weeks ago, says that Haider wants to miss a new image. He was in Harvard and studied the latest economic knowledge there. There is a Jacob Heilbrunn, to whom he gave an interview, and he writes here: “The problem is, he has called concentration camps ‘Straflager’, the weapons SS as ‘love friends’ and ‘orderly people with a good character’, which in the public deserve all the honor and respect of the army’. He also praised Hitler’s ‘orderly employment policy’." Ladies and gentlemen! These sentences are so silent in a newspaper, are read by some and not taken very seriously by them. But I believe that this attitude, even if it is not used consciously – some think you are making it aware, Mr Haider, some believe that it is just your socialization – helps to spread this mood, and some people who have sung certain Nazi songs in backrooms earlier in the past can now do so freely. For example, in my area there are high-ranking officials who vote in Nazi songs, but I tell you there are also people in the innhouses who say in my... [[Abg. May. Stadler: The Nazi is not just in Styria! They split up these two parties!]] No, no, no, you've already done it in very... [[Abg. May. Stadler: There is a deal between these two parties!]] It's not about whether the FPÖ members are. [[Further calls to the liberals.]] I believe that we have debated that the FPÖ has not had the majority of it since there were free elections in the Second Republic. There's enough Nazis in the other parties, I'm telling you quite openly. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's nice!]] But, Mr Haider, these people are now... [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: There are also German national!]] Yes, but there was an attempt in a misinterpreted idea of integration – especially the ÖVP in Styria has tried that – to involve the German national. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: The Nazis too, not only the German nationals!]] The Nazis too. I know there's a difference. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: There are also German nationals in the Greens!]] Mr Haider! These sentences that you have said spread not only domestically but also abroad a very certain mood, and this is actually the biggest obstacle to taking you seriously as a political partner. Many things that are said by each one of us here in this House are serious because they often present a massive and clear criticism of states in our country. Mr Haider, I know there is only one scheme for you: the decent and the indecent, the friends and the enemies, the liberals and the foliage you have to destroy with weeds ex and others. I know that's a very simple pattern for you. Just as the picture has been documented in the "Kronen Zeitung" today: You can see with this man practically already, that must be a criminal. – The police would have a light game if this were really to be seen in the faces. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: We didn't write that! We're not responsible for that!]] I know you are not responsible for this, but you are responsible for this simplification in life, Mr Haider. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Are we responsible for what the "Kronen Zeitung" writes?]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: There are others who say it's all so complicated!]] Mr Haider! I understand that you want to miss a new picture, but a new picture that would enable you to sit on this bank would include seeing all these things I have presented here and the others have kept you self-critical. You do not do that, and I have the suspicion that you say all of this out of pure opportunism once and for all. This is, I believe, the worst accusation that can be made to you, and I believe that this country is well advised to ensure that people who preach this kind of understanding, who show this kind of understanding, do not come into any political responsibility. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e9879	There is a recent speech by Mr Dr. Haider. The remaining speaking time for you is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e9900	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to give my colleagues Wabl a few words along the way. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: (to Abg. Haigermoser, who is just taking his place again) You already wanted to go, and now the boss is talking! That's stupid!]] The obvious flawlessness with which you are holding this debate today has brought you back to the situation you are best aware of: at the end of the day, to condone the liberals and not to realize that the situation has changed seriously. [[Abg. Wabl: You say that!]] And if you try to talk us into the conscience here – which is quite legitimate for a colleague who takes it seriously – then I would still ask you to think about whether you should first come at your own door and ask your own colleagues to act differently. Mrs Stoisits, for example, wants us to be locked in just because we are free! 20 years she wants because we're free! That's what's on the record, and that's what you all applauded. I'm glad to hear from the Greens. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: And the SPÖ!]] ==References====External links== April 1995 after! Read it! Back then, you all applauded, and today you don't want to know anything about it! This testifies exactly to your short memory: You don't want to know! [[Abg. Wabl: What does one have to do with the other?]] You do not want to know that you want us to be quarantined just because we have a different attitude that does not fit you! With us it's the other way round: We will do everything you can to say that, although it does not fit us what you have to say. That is the decisive! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Wabl: What did you say in Graz when left students piffed?]] Mr. Col., I don't have so many minutes. [[Abg. Wabl: There you have said, you will make sure that they no longer whistle when you are in power!]] Yeah, it's all right! They said that some of us don't know anything and that's why they're running along somewhere. The liberals are all mentally minors. You know, my colleague, what I think is a lot worse? – If one says knowingly untruths, knowingly puts wrong, knowingly, like colleague Anschober, who had a protocol with heavy loads in the highway history to the Karawanken motorway, but therefore did not publish and publish it, because it was too cheap for the liberals. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Look here!]] That's it! There he was quite nervous when we published it a few months ago. The great discoverer of the nation was suddenly very small, because we caught him that he had not published a protocol in his possession for months, which had been defamatory. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Like the One!]] He's in the same boat as Mr. One. All of this is the same mesh with which politics is made! It's just as bad if you know how to promote a terrorist leaf, if you know how to cooperate with terrorists like Ebergassinger's perpetrators. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's fact!]] That's a fact! They're with you in the boat, they're in your business location, they're in your party location, they've been financed with your money! [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is the "Constitutional Arch"!]] That's your Constitutional Arch! Please keep this constitutional note! We don't want it! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Wabl: That's a totally ordinary diffamation, nothing else!]] You, Mr Wabl, are acting as a moral apostle of this Parliament, saying: It is terrible that the liberals distinguish only between the arrogant and the indecent! – That’s right, too! This is a philosophy which has a very concrete background. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: Viktor Frankl!]] Have you perhaps read the philosophy of Viktor Frankl, who said that in reality there were only two classes, two races, two types of people: the workers and the indecents. – You should at last try to be among those who are willing to become indecent in politics! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In the sense of Frankl's, they should try to be among the employees. This is not a shame at all, it is not an exclusive right of the liberals, and it seems to be hundreds of thousands of people who have joined us in the elections in recent years. That is why Mr Cap is so angry: because he has not become effective again with his propaganda and because the social democracy in Upper Austria has again experienced devastating defeats, and, indeed, devastating defeats where she has a lot of power in her hands. They have lost a majority of them, hundreds of thousands of votes have come to her, and now Mr Cap wants to put us in favour of being a censor in education. Why don't you start thinking about what you've done wrong? If the voters run away, he has to think about what he has done wrong. The voters come to us, so we did it right. That's the difference, my dear! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] And if you are so opposed to the policy for the workers, Mr. Wabl, I ask you why you... [[Abg. Wabl: (in the direction of the speaker's pulp) I am also for the decent, but this is not the way to clarify the political situation!]] Why are you so excited? Why are you so excited?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Wabl: I'm not excited at all, I just wanted to speak!]] Run back and forth! [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] So if he is one of the employees, I have to ask him why he then has a policy of the Lord. A so massively defended – and one is one of the special favorite youths of the green alternatives – why he defends someone who in an interview with the "trend" on the question of the reporter: Do we sometimes have to lie in politics? responds: You have to lie in life at all. [[Abg. May. Stadler: I believe that!]] This is really a fine minister, ladies and gentlemen, whom you want to keep here in your cabinet, who says from the outset: With the truth, I don't take it exactly. That is why you will understand why the workers are landing with us and the dissidents are not yet determined to enter into a partnership with you. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the liberals.]] 16.3 1
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e10164	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Hazelsteiner. - Please. 16.3 1
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e10185	Mrs. Minister! Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It is rather unusual that I speak on such a subject, but I have pursued this debate over relatively long distances, and I simply have to get rid of something. There are, of course, decent and indecent; that is clear. There are also saints and hypocrites, and of course there are material and populists. Everyone will, of course, be listed somewhere, and that is what it is all about, and therefore I must say: If a person claims to be not hypocrites for himself, then that may well correspond to his subjective feeling, but that is why it is far from true. And one thing, Jörg, must already be clear to us – and I criticize whether this is at the ÖVP or at the SPÖ, on other issues, always exactly the same –: Hypocrisy is really unbearable, and yours today was unsurpassed. [[Cheerfulness and applause at the Liberal Forum and SPÖ.]] And I would also like to explain why this is so in my eyes. Of course, Mr Cap said that at the time, Mr Vrannitzky also said that, and I must say that I have always been surprised, but it has also touched me to a certain extent, because I have always assessed it differently as regards the question of foreigners. That there have been statements made which we liberals can only comment on with their heads, because we no longer recognize ourselves, because we hope that it is not true or that you do not think so, is one thing, but one calculates the mistakes of one with one's own, this famous specialty of you, Jörg, that you say: He said it too, so I must also say that this is not so bad at all!, that is really an approach that cannot be contradicted. It does not apologise for the mistakes of others to their own misperformance. Ladies and gentlemen, this is ancient! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: He said you should come in front of your own door!]] And of course it is something, ladies and gentlemen, and we really don't have to be a big politician: It is the consistent repetition of this record, this anti-foreign, despicable, critically democratic – in my opinion democratic – record, also something that must affect us elected to Parliament. That's not something you can so easily go about. And it's with you system, and it's at Jörg in a special perfection system, and that, ladies and gentlemen, has nothing to do with diffamation. This does not have to do with the 20 years, which is simply and strikingly a fact: They radicalize verbally to an unbearable extent, and thus you are guilty of something that may happen this time, thanks to God. I am glad that this terrorist – first – is taken and, second, is not a libertiest. I'm glad about it. I am glad that this theory – right-wing extreme grouping, plott et cetera – does not seem to vote. But this, ladies and gentlemen, does not entitle you to take responsibility and say: We're exculpated! You may be exculpated in this case, but you are not excused by the accusation that you are radicalizing this country, that you are incite xenophobia and that you are destabilising this Republic as a whole. This seed, ladies and gentlemen, could actually occur once, and that would be a disaster. It would be your duty, in your constant attacks, in your verbal attack... -attacks, -injuria – I just wanted to avoid the call for order; I still have 50 minutes, Mr President, not 25 – to consider ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ. [[Call the SPÖ:... attack!]] Then we can discuss out there and say: Yes, you and your group, too, deserve such a thing as respect!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e10243	Mrs Dr Petrovic spoke for the second time. Your remaining speaking time is 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e10264	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! We do not seem to have the opportunity to experience that Dr. Haider is personally engaged in a debate over a longer period of time, but at least Mr Stadler is here. It is important to me that you hear it, and I hope you don't shout so loud that you don't hear it. I mentioned it earlier: Distinguish You between a specific criminal offence, which no one underlies to you – no one here in the house, however you always do – and the question of political responsibility. They put specific participation – without any evidence, and usually it turns out to be wrong afterwards, but just later, when no one is interested in it any more, when medial grass has grown over it. They have subordinated people here in this house to participation in crimes. Not in a single case has this proved true, not in a single case you have been able to prove, but you still have no one to take part in a crime. The question of political responsibility, however, you have to ask yourself, and if you stick to this classification – to the decent and the indecent – then I ask you: Did that say a decent man or an indecent? – Literally quote: "You already hear about the Turkish siege in 1683 in the school. There's no need for an intrusion by anyone to recognize the analogy to today's situation, where black-eyed people, in turn, are wandering around in the former suburbs with co-grown eyebrows." – Wise or indecent? [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Indecent!]] Yes, indecent. This is a literal quote from a confessional letter. Cold over the back, it's the second quote I'd like to present to you: "We did not successfully wage the Turkish wars hundreds of years ago to bring about a change on our own." – Wise or indecent, ladies and gentlemen? [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Authorized!]] I think that's self-esteem. Or another quote, ladies and gentlemen: "If our great-grandfathers had already shot the brick trees and Knödelköchen at the border, the German-Austrians would have saved today's disaster from having to defend themselves against the impact of a men's caste from Tschus." Like this quote – it's an indecent one – then arrive at the clientele who responds to your political statements, that's what you read here: "At last! The foreign people's desire is there!" – And then – quote –:
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e10304	Please put the final sentence, Mrs Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e10325	"If the last jugo is dead, there's no more neighbors in need." – Today the "Jugos", then the "Ziegelboehm". I ask you: decent or inappropriate?
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e10355	There is no more word message. I therefore conclude the debate. We are now calling for the actual corrections. In the whole of the four words, they have a corrective effect on the subject. I'll call them in the order of word message. The first is Mr. Dr. Kier. I would draw all the speakers' attention to the two minutes' limit on speaking time and ask everyone to begin with the claim that he wants to correct. Please, Mr Kier.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e10389	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! My colleague, Mr Partik-Pablé, has here said from this pult that I had submitted to my colleague, Count, the perpetrator's behaviour. I'm actually correcting: I did not put Mr Graf under the control of the perpetrator's behaviour. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: He's still a coward!]] I submitted to my colleague, Count, the perpetrator's behaviour for the spiritual climate. That's me.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e10438	The next actual correction is made by Mr Anschober. [[Abg. Dr Graf: Mr President! A personal response!]] No, there's no more! [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's incredible! Why is there no personal response?]] Mr Anschober, please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e10483	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Minister! In his speech, Dr. Haider truthfully claimed that I had abstained from a protocol on the road construction scandal Karawanken motorway and would not have published it, among other things, because this protocol would have benefited the FPÖ. This claim is not true. I have learned about the existence of such a protocol from an article of the "Salzburger Nachrichten". And second: This protocol, as I have now been able to convince myself, is very stressful for the FPÖ.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e10514	The third actual correction is made by Mr Öllinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e10538	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Haider said in his speech that the terrorists of Ebergassing were financed by the money of the Greens and entered and went into a business area of the Greens. [[Call to the Freeman: "TATblatt!"]] This claim is incorrect. Neither the terrorists nor the "TATblatt" people were financed by the money of the Greens, nor did they enter and leave the business community.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e10584	The last actual correction is made by Mrs Magistrate. Stoisits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e10608	Mr President. I am correcting the statements made by Mr Stadler and Mr Haider, who claimed that I would have spoken on 6 March. On 20 April 1995 all FPÖ delegates were sentenced to 20 years. [[Abg. Haigermoser: 25 years!]] I am actually correcting – quote from the Stenographical Protocol –: "The criminal framework in the condemnation of Hans-Jörg Schimanek jun." – Note by me now: sentenced for re-acting; Note closed – "it has not been exhausted for a long time. As a sincere Democrat, I would like to see it, if it were your concerns, to be your sympathy" – again from me now: the FPÖ regarding Schimanek; Note closed – "is going to strike once the full hardness of the law, and in this case it would be twenty years!" - Quote. [[Abg. May. Stadler: No, it's not inside!]] I repeat: In this case, Hans-Jörg Schimanek, that would be 20 years.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e10673	Mr Graf has now reported himself to a personal response. - Please. [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is indecent! Shut up!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] Member of the European Parliament, you are speaking – and nobody else, please!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e10717	Mr. Minister! Mr Kier has now tried to explain to me from the speaker's desk in his actual correction that he does not assign to me a perpetrator's behaviour. I would personally like to reply and quote from today's Minutes. I won't add anything, just quote. Mr Kier said: "Mr. Graf! With all the clarity, I tell you: If you feel so affected when someone creates the objective finding that the victim circle that the target orientation of the confessional letters, all these details, is clearly politically appropriate when you feel affected, then this is your problem. I will draw your attention to this!" And then we're going to go on: "He who always feels himself meant in self-punishment puts a typical culprit's behavior." And finally, he said, "He's caught up with his arguments." They have accused me of perpetrator behaviour and are not even man enough to admit that!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e10761	This concludes the actual corrections. We shall now proceed to a vote. I ask you to take the seats. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Stadler and comrades concerning the failure of confidence towards a member of the Federal Government. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application has been rejected. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e10803	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e10991	We're going into the agenda now. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e11013	It is proposed that the debate on points 2 to 6 and 7 to 9 of the agenda should be summarized. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. 1. Point Report and request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the draft federal law amending the Federal Law on the Employment of Children and Youth 1987 and the Unemployment Insurance Act 1977 (882 of Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e11043	We're now on the 1st. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We can therefore start the debate immediately. As the first speaker, Mr Haigermoser spoke with the announcement of a voluntary time limit of 8 minutes. [[Abg. Haigermoser: 7!]] - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e11073	Seven minutes, a compromise, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Let us again devote ourselves to the policy of matters. Mrs. Prammer! Your policy is on the test. Since this is still up-to-date a few days after the election in Upper Austria, I can say a few words for constituency. [[Abg. Ing. Gartlehner: This is physical policy?]] This is a matter of policy, because the citizens judge the policy of matters, and the citizens in Upper Austria spoke a devastating judgment on social democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a matter of policy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There's no need for suffocation. Take note of the vote of the voter! He's the Sovereign, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. May. Stadler: They didn't choose the woman Prammer!]] Among other things, in Upper Austria, the Child and Youth Employment Act was also on the test stand, Mrs. Prammer, in the representation of Mrs. Hostasch. In June of this year, Mrs President-in-Office of the Committee, you have built parliamentary Mass, which Mr Klima has devoted himself to during the summer break. He has promised to repair this "mist" in September, October. He has pledged his word, pledged his honour, ladies and gentlemen. He lost the honor last Sunday, not only in Linz, Mrs. Prammer, but also in Wels, where interestingly Her mayor cut off better than the Social Democratic Party. You should also think about why this came about. Ladies and gentlemen! First, modernise the shop opening time law – with the result: longer opening hours in trade, full-time jobs are destroyed. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Very remarkable!]] You are then surprised that the number of teaching firms in trade has fallen from 1995 to 1996 alone from 7 810 to 7 497. Mrs. Prammer! It's not a coincidence. Your policy is responsible for this. They were on the test last Sunday – and found too easy, in addition to the ÖVP, which is interesting – Adam Riese is turning around in the grave! – a minus before the result celebrates as a success. [[Complaints with the liberals]] Such "success" we leave You continue to celebrate, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! [[Abg. May. Stadler: Yes, exactly!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Only a piece of work has come out of this innovation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Murauer.]] However, we liberties agree with this amendment at third reading, which is because it includes health and nursing services and also provides for an extension of the work foundation for food workers. That is what we welcome, therefore our third reading approval. Now to the Economic Federation. Mr. Stummful – he is once again absent – who always verbally throws himself into the scene over the media, said, just a few days ago: Rapid action is more efficient than beautiful words, appeals alone are not enough! - But what does he do? He forgot all his promises about the summer. He is pulled over the table by the comrades because, interestingly, now the financial – as a counter-business – examines the chamber cover I and II with the taxpayers, which was not the case before. That's why stupidly re-entered, because it's about the "Marie" about money. He's been on sale once again. Once again, the ÖVP was caught up in fresh deed, as it was caught by the voters last Sunday. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There can be Lord. "Dr. Joe" celebrate what he wants. This so-called victory is not even a Pyrrhus victory. Ladies and gentlemen! Because we are free to act, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mein Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! If it is serious to you with the creation of teaching posts, with the keyword "Careers with Teaching", then you agree with this one of your own demands! That's what you announced in Upper Austria in the election campaign. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You have said that you will decide in the next parliamentary days in Vienna. – If you don’t, I have to think about whether I’m right about those who claim you’re indifferent. I really have to think about that. These allegations are increasing, for also a chew in Upper Austria has said: The Novelle child and youth protection law requires fundamental repair. I'm asking: Where's the repair? You've been pulled over the table by the comrades! Entered like the famous "Böhmic Canvas", a deal practiced with the control of finance and at the Chamber of Abkassierei! Ladies and gentlemen! They have once again been caught up in fresh deed. As I said, Our agreement in third reading – for the reasons explained. I expect you – if you are worthy of the trust you have celebrated in this way – to: Voices To the request of our liberals here and today!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e11242	The amendment tabled by Mr Haigermoser has been handed over to business rules, has been sufficiently supported and is included in the negotiations. The next speaker is Mrs Reitsamer. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e11267	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Haigermoser: I won't say "Annaamiarl" anymore! I'll never do that again!]] In the Child and Youth Employment Act...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e11293	Mr Haigermoser! The "Scherz" was not well placed. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e11309	My God, we have to put the drawers down in the basement, so that the liberals can grasp deep enough. But we can live very slowly, Mr President. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The law on the employment of children and young people has been brought into line with the EU Directive – 48 hours of weekend rest in certain sectors dealing with fresh foods – says bakers, meats, confectioners, dairy workers. We now reduce this weekend rest to 43 hours, secured by collective agreement. Nevertheless, compliance with the EU Directive is necessary because it is necessary to read that the two days of weekly leave must be followed only "as possible". The Socialist Group has always made an understanding of this problem – which has also been easily comprehensible. Nevertheless, there were enormous difficulties and a fairly wide path until an agreement was reached. I'll keep that in mind. But if Mr Haigermoser speaks of "parliamentary manure" and on the other hand he speaks for the extension of the revitalisation foundation – which I think is in principle right – then I must remind him that it failed at this very point before the summer break. One wanted to innovation the Child and Youth Employment Act and talk about the Revival Foundation later. However, we have not approved this from the Socialist Group. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Do you know who is contributing to the 72.5 million? – The economy! And the Chamber of Workers doesn't pay a red heller!]] I say the following to you: This extension does not cost the economy anything: neither red nor blue brighter or lucky brighter. Look at this! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] During the first plenary days of this autumn, we have been very close on this subject, but the ÖVP has introduced a No to safeguard collective contracts. Only the time pressure has produced a positive result. However, this has created further important conditions for the apprenticeship offensive of the Federal Government. In order to get ahead of you so that you don't say again that this would have brought nothing, I bring the latest data on the apprenticeship market: By the end of September 1997, 44 219 teaching contracts were awarded to the Austrian Chamber of Commerce. Thus, this value was 3 233, a plus of 7.9 percent, above the value of the previous year. In 1997 the number of apprentices is expected to increase slightly again in the first year of teaching since 1978. At the end of September, the number of open positions available was 15.5 percent higher than the previous year's figure. From July to September 1997, the AMS provided 19 932 job seekers. This value was 34 percent higher than the previous year's value. – This is just to get ahead of your criticism; I know this polemic enough. [[Mr Scheibner and Mr Haigermoser.]] With amazement, however, I have heard the comments of my colleague silently – to read in the "standard": "There was a compromise, but no guarantee for more apprenticeship employment for a long time." We shall be tabling an amendment today, and I will come back to that later. But if you are already "enhanced", as Mr Collegue stupidly: no More about apprenticeships through this scheme – but precisely that is why this scheme was made; it was not stupidly denied by my colleague until the end – then I ask myself the question: When does the next claim come and what is the next one when it is said that apprenticeship employment is hindered? [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] Employment and, above all, youth employment are very important to us, but we must always think about it and ask ourselves whether all these changes would be right if young people in our family environment were affected by them. – I would just like to say that to you once and remind you of the topic of closing time and working time flexibility. Of 8,000 additional jobs, the speech was worth mentioning – full-time jobs! – but there was a minus of 1 598 full-time jobs in the retail sector from August 1996 to August 1997, but an increase in the number of jobs with small employees. Ladies and gentlemen! I am glad that one of the next decisions will be to make something in the direction of social security for minor workers, but I cannot go into this for reasons of time. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Böhacker: Re-attach!]] Today, at least there is a viable compromise: It is in line with the demands of the economy; it is in line with the EU Directive without undermining the protection of young people. This, ladies and gentlemen, is particularly important to us. The extension of life has already been addressed by me. It is – for everyone easily comprehensible – the work foundation for former employees in the food industry. 3,000 people have already been accommodated elsewhere. The extension by one year is extremely important, and I am glad that Mr Haigermoser also says that. I would like to mention the following: It is about the employment of apprentices on the 8th. December. At this point I would like to make the following request. [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! As a result of collective agreements, it is possible to agree to this solution in the interest of youth employment. I would also like to point out that we are about to make a request here in the house - hopefully together - to amend the Federal Procurement Act, which has the content of favouring companies that train apprentices in awarding them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e11440	The amendment just read has been properly submitted, is supported accordingly and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Peter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e11465	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! This is probably a not-ending debate, with a good view of the light, a good view of the light, as far as Mrs Reitsamer's request is concerned. This has made a next step to finally repair old, outdated things. I would like to quote a few quotations from the "time" which also literally fit into Austria: "The new freedom of teaching": In this article, it says: "Zig thousands of young people find no way into work because only a third of companies offer apprenticeships. The pens are considered too expensive, the vocational school teaches fabric from yesterday, the training bureaucracy tends hopelessly after the change of the working world. Industry companies and service providers only receive qualified young people if they break the framework of the regulations." - Quote. This is really a very fascinating belief in regulation, and if one fails to reach the goal of sound regulation, it is said: Look, look, look, the "evil" entrepreneurs now no longer employ apprentices. At the same time, however, you start a young business offensive. But if you always assume that the entrepreneurs are in principle exploitors, that they are, as it were, too much talk, animals that you have to tame, I ask you: Then why do you want a Young Entrepreneur's offensive? Do you want more animals in this society? It is indeed incredible to have to say again and again in the discussion that, as a standard address of the laws decided by the National Council, when you speak here as an entrepreneur, you are quite simply regarded as a disturbance. The "sacred hall" of regulation is disturbed. All of a sudden, someone comes from outside and says, Friends, did you think about what you did there? Have you really considered what provisions you have made? They can't be implemented like that! – Then the Lord of Oillinger comes and says: That's not true! – He knows, he's one of the most excellent group of regulators. He knows what is noble and good, but has no idea, and he has no idea at all what the operational implementation then looks like de facto. It looks so simple to hire fewer apprentices that the cost argument... [[Abg. Oillinger: That's not true!]] Mr Ollinger, of course, says: "That's not true!" He sees the reality that there are fewer teaching places, he sees the reality that there are fewer apprentices, but the accusation that he may have caused this with his regulation is far from himself, for he is high and noble and has finally meant it well, only: He simply doesn't understand anything about this, because he never goes into the business reality and there into the daily positive, negative, tension-loaded, friendly discussion between people, as is usually the case in a company. We're living in an eviction competition, and that's cost management. 50 percent of independent traders pay a social security based on the minimum basis of 12 900 S per month. 50 percent of them thus earn less than 150 000 S a year. 50 percent of businesses – this is the median value – have a sales profitability of plus/minus zero percent. And you invent strains and wonder when the companies say: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, – That’s really amazing. As a very socially committed entrepreneur, one really sometimes occurs here as in a curriculum cabinet: It must not be anything, because you know what it really is; You need to protect employees from the "Bestie Entrepreneur". – You should decide on a Young Entrepreneurship Prevention Act so that there is no more "besties" in that country. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Böhacker.]] The proposals you have made, we think, as far as they are concerned with the ÖVP proposal, we are pleased. However, I do not think that the compromise that has come out is sufficient. We will not be able to accept this pointual approach in this form, although I would like to stress that there are some proposals for improvement there and there. I should like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Now a few will come again and suggest a lot of allegations, because that can't be all. Ladies and gentlemen! Why Make Do you then have an exception to this supplement in the fields of processing and processing of fresh food? This exception is justified by the following: This exception also allows a comprehensive training of apprentices. – Why is this not true for the apprentices in the gastronomy and only in summertime until 23:00? They write in Article 1 on the question of young people who are active in the elevated health and health care service, that they are even – horribile dictu! - can work at night. This seems to be necessary for the training there, but that someone in the summertime is in service until 23 o'clock – of course also productive at that time and brings something to the company, because if he does not do anything to the company, he could not receive any apprentice compensation and any corresponding services from that company – that is not possible. This prevents you, and then you wonder if there are fewer employees and fewer apprentices in this area. What the Federal Government has now done is not a structural reform. It was tried with much effort, which I have always called short-term success, to create new teaching places. Mrs Reitsamer mentioned the figures. The Great Bitter But woe will come next year when the entrances to the apprenticeships of those apprentices who have been added this year will, so to speak, be stashed. Then there will be the same number of young people who want an apprenticeship. They have not really changed the framework conditions for teaching as a whole. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: That's what we want!]] I conclude with a quote from the "time": "All are talking about the service company, but the breakthrough has not yet succeeded. The social partners depend on their professional traditions, on the culture of skilled workers in production, and there will probably be the mistake." - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e11567	The amendment that has just been selected has been properly tabled, has been supported accordingly and is therefore under negotiation. The next speech is by Mr Dr. Drinkl. 10 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e11591	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! If youth unemployment plays a much lower role in Austria than in other EU countries, then there is no doubt that dual training has a significant share of it. At least 40 percent of all young school leavers find an apprenticeship and make a training in the context of dual teaching. The training in the establishments is great. Our apprentices are world leaders, and we are envied all over the world around this system. The dual training is undoubtedly the competitive advantage of the Austrian economy internationally. However, we have found that the share is falling. In 1990, 50 percent of all young people were still employed in dual training. We from the Austrian People's Party already pointed out this development very early and also mentioned the reasons for this development. In this, I really do give Mr Peter the right thing to do, if you want to create additional apprenticeships seriously, go into the arguments of the firms and deal with them, because – and I also give him the right to – only flourishing companies are able and willing to offer teaching and training places. I also do not want to hide that measures of the second and third labour markets are only considered as accompanying measures and can only do little to remedy them, but do not help permanently. That's why before the summer we put on a comprehensive apprenticeship package. We have debureaucratised the vocational training law and made working time regulations more flexible, and we have finally tried to get the training companies financially under the arms. We have thus signaled the companies: We are interested in your cooperation, we acknowledge your efforts and create those conditions through which training is still possible in today's time. The companies, I think, actually understood this message. Mrs Reitsamer was right to point out increases in apprenticeships in the first year of teaching, and we can all be pleased about this. I do not share the scepticism that the training places of the next few years are "hidden". We have also achieved the effect we wanted. Small and medium-sized enterprises in particular are again devoting themselves to this task. I therefore think it appropriate to expressly and cordially thank these establishments for their services in the field of youth work, the employment of young people. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] ==References== From this point on, on September: Let us work for young people, and let us not take unnecessary beatings on those whom we as partners need as training firms! – If we are today newising some of the provisions of the Child and Youth Employment Act, we are actually getting rid of "flags" that have become annoyed for many training firms. I admit that this proposal is a compromise which has preceded tough and lengthy negotiations. In advance it was heard that it had come in fashion to trample on protection provisions for young people, therefore it was clear here that: We from the ÖVP are committed to a comprehensive protection of young people! We have repeatedly known ourselves in this House for the protection of young people through our voting behaviour. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The question was also asked, in whose interest was this compromise. A very clear answer to this: in the interest of those young people who now have a new opportunity through additional apprenticeships, who are first able to start their lives with work, and not to find themselves after a school without employment. This regulation is in the form that we are going to decide on today, I hope, in accordance with EU law. It also offers the opportunity to address different situations in different sectors. I am glad that it has succeeded in formulating § 19 para. 1a in the Child and Youth Employment Act to find a solution that allows all sectors in the economy to respond flexibly to new challenges. I regret that Mr Haigermoser has left. [[Abg. Haigermoser: No, no!]] I'm sorry I looked over you. [[Abg. Haigermoser: I'm hanging on your lips!]] All right, now you can learn something. [[Abg. Haigermoser: I watch your crashers!]] If you're talking about falling down, please listen to me! [[Abg. Dr. Haider: I have stayed extra sitting so I can listen to his request!]] There is an agreement with trade at collective contractual partner level that goes beyond your application. I would like to stress, therefore, that I cannot agree with your worse solution, but that we are presenting today a solution which is much better and more flexible. [[Abg. Haigermoser shows a newspaper article.]] You're, like so often, after development. [[Abg. Haigermoser: This is your chamber magazine!]] How often have you remained behind developments. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] I'm sorry I need to improve you there. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Have you made a socialist compromise law again?]] No, no compromise! In this case, we have even enforced ourselves. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: "Even enforced"!]] We are very proud of it. We want to signal our businesses that they are in good hands with us. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Listen and then judge! Second example: The Apothecary Association has a collective contract, so the weekend break for young apprentices is 48 hours. It must include Sunday and start on Saturday at 1 p.m. The weekend leave period may be reduced by a maximum of five hours if this time is balanced in half or whole working days within four weeks. This collective agreement is also the result of the new provision of § 19 para. 7 covered. I am pleased that this could be done in the framework of a preliminary speech in the Social Ministry today, because this will ensure training in a very attractive teaching profession in the future. Others are talking about new jobs, we are acting, we are creating conditions for more employment! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In this context, however, I do not want to hide that many of us have the formulation of the old § 19 para. One of the children's and young people's employment laws would have been preferable and many of us would also have a little regrets about this simple, short wording in a paragraph. After all, we have managed to extend the formulation to the length of a whole page. Nevertheless: As Mrs Reitsmer has said, I fully agree with him on this compromise, and we believe that we have made progress in improving the framework for dual training. With today's day, we have come a step closer to a modern, flexible training right. Some of our demands are still open. As we have already been asked today when the next demands come: You come, if you like, now! In this context, I only mention the creation of a partial teaching. I would ask you to discuss this with no prejudice, because this will allow young people who have no prospects for it to be able to do so today. Give the youth a chance, that's what the government programme says! I am convinced that if we add to dual training the importance it really deserves, we can continue to be successful in the field of youth employment.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e11765	The next item is the speech by Mr Oellinger. 8 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e11787	Mr President. High house! Mrs. Minister! It is difficult to get some things to the point in this debate. I try briefly, my speaking time is limited. We will agree to the extension of the Revival Foundation. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Well done!]] I now come to the real and important point, namely the amendments relating to the Child and Youth Protection Act. There was a debate in the Committee, as I believe, in some of the points and at some moments quite thoughtful about how far the provisions for the protection of apprentices still need to be reduced, so that the entrepreneurship side finally says that it is enough and rich. How far – this is not limited to the protection of young people; it was not only my contributions to the debate, Mr. Drinkl – the advantages for the entrepreneurs, who have already referred to it this year, through the resources of the AMS and the countries, as well as the subsidisation of apprenticeship employment, must go so that the business side can say: [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: With money you can't create a job, Col. Oillinger!]] [[==References====External links== Dr. Dr. Drinkl]] Yes, that's exactly what we think it's still to be justified by business!Unknown term type: "%s".? Mr. Drinkl! I would like to draw your attention to a comment by Mr Jens Tschebull in the "EconomiesBlatt" in which he writes that it is only after the apprenticeship for the apprentices has been reintroduced. – And that is the right answer to what is being discussed. I now know, Mr Drinkl, that you are not Mr Chebull and are neither of this opinion nor are you seeking anything like that. I assume that no one in the ÖVP, no one in the FPÖ, will get there. Nevertheless, the question is allowed: How far should the reduction of protection provisions and the reduction of the remuneration for apprentices go – given that you are today proclaiming from this speaker's desk that what you have now achieved in terms of the flexibility of the child and youth employment law is only an intermediate step? [[Abg. Tichy-Schreiter: Money is not a safeguard!]] A slightly greater flexibility has now been achieved, but you would continue. If I – and I even understand my colleagues Peter, even if I do not agree with him otherwise – look at the provisions of this law, namely that there are separate protective provisions for night work in health and health care, where one can work through the night without harming the protection of young people, then I must say that we are already at that stage in the employment of children and young people, where we have been or are in women's night work. It is no longer clear to anyone what these protection provisions are valid for, because in certain areas they only offer disadvantages or distortions for all. That's the point. If we are already having a debate on child and youth employment and protection provisions – I am in favour of leading them – then together for all. It can't be that in an industry that is better able to prevail – because, for example, as regards health and health care, it is rather stately organized, I would suspect – that all around it is freedom to employ youthful apprentices even at night. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: You can't shave all industries over a comb!]] There is still a possibility for an exception in sectors that are going badly. But because she gets one, she wants the other too. This one will not get it until 23 o'clock, but only until 21 o'clock. And so is – as in a bazaar – an exception! That cannot be a sense and a perspective of youth protection! [[Abg. Tichy-Schreiter: The entrepreneurs are excited about this!]] [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: We would have liked to continue!]] [[Abg. Gaugg: Why didn't you do it?]] [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: That wasn't going to happen!]] I'll tell you: That's wrong, we're not going in that direction! I am in favour of Mr Peter's statements. He accused me – he's not in the hall right now... [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: I admit: we would have liked a general solution that serves everyone!]] Yes, but we probably don't meet at that point at which the Limes were so to speak! That is it, and we must discuss it openly and honestly if the word 'youth protection' is to have a right in this context, otherwise we can say straight away: Young people are adults from 14 years of age and, of course, all the provisions of worker protection apply to them. - It can't be! Mr Peter, now to your accusation that I'm talking about things I don't understand. It is a question of dealing with such an accusation that we should be more cautious, because I am quite aware that I lack certain experiences as regards the entrepreneurial view of these things. I have never said anything contrary, but I have always said that what I ask for for for children or young people in the specific case must not be in line with the interests of entrepreneurs at every point and after every point and that it would be beneficial if they were to protect children and young people. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreiter: It doesn't have to be different!]] [[Abg. May. Peter: This is a nonsense!]] [[Abg. Tichy-Schreiter: He doesn't understand!]] I have been working long enough to support young people and apprentices to know your problems and know where their problems lie – a part of the problems to be honest. I think we are all making a mistake – especially the business side and this draft – if we believe we can say from the point of view of one side that affects or affects or speaks for the whole. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreiter: This is not from one side!]] I have already been very excited at the Committee that this law on the employment of children and young people contains provisions which try to give the impression that the restrictions on Sunday and weekend rest for young people are also in line with their interests. Now only! That can't be! [[Abg. May. Peter: I cordially invite you: Come out into reality!]] I think you can't go that far and say that... [[Abg. Murauer: They want to work and not be prevented! That's the truth!]] The young people also want to have their free time! It is their legitimate right to enjoy this free time, just as everyone else wants to enjoy this free time. [[Abg. Murauer: They want to work!]] If they cannot enjoy them for operational reasons, then something has to be given for it. [[Abg. Murauer: Stand by the ground with both feet!]] [[President Dr. Brauneder gives the bell sign.]] Thank you. – But that the "Christian" ÖVP says that the Sunday rest is completely no matter when it comes to youth employment, since they want to work – you have just said – I think that they want to work on Sunday too. [[Abg. Murauer: This has nothing to do with Christian!]] [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Murauer and Mr Haigermoser.]] One should put things clearly on the table, and that is, it is the interests of the economy! [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] You should talk about whether it's just like this and not the other way around. But to say automatically – just as it is partly done in this law – that the interests of the economy are also the interests of young people, I think I measure. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Tichy Schreiter.]] I would therefore like to inform you of a request which we are making during this debate; it refers to the control of vocational training. I think it is wrong to continue the status quo, according to which the business interest representative controls companies in relation to the control of vocational training. First of all, Mr Peter, you have to make a good argument, because it is not that you can say: We entrepreneurs know best how to control vocational training, that it has to be done through the business side. It will not be easy to explain this, because this is a permanent relic, a state-of-the-art thinking in which the entrepreneur has, so to speak, played the pattern and is still playing. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreiter: No, really not!]] Of course it is, Mrs Tichy-Schreder! [[Abg. Tichy-Schreider: I invite you, look at reality! And I would ask that the Trade Union Confederation also train apprentices! Then he would understand a lot!]] I therefore believe that you should take a step forward in view of the current situation of a reduction in protection provisions in this respect and take into account the long-term demand for joint control of vocational training. It would also be possible to control other ways, for example, through the labour inspection, common, but the labour inspection is, as you know, overloaded. I therefore believe that the proposal to set up a body formed jointly by the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Labour, which is responsible for the control of vocational training, is quite a command of time. I would therefore like to inform you of the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! We can talk about many things, we can talk about different interests, but we should not do one thing: to declare an interest – in this case, the interest of the companies, after as little regulation as possible – to be the sole determining and only blessed. For one thing has already been said to you: This law is actually called child and youth employment law or law on the protection of children. If this term is still to have a right, then you have to explain yourself, then you have to say clearly that it is possible for children and young people to be able to work over the night when they are employed in health and health care. In this area, you do not have a problem at all, but in other sectors. Ladies and gentlemen! They're going the wrong way. You should stay on this path, which you are obviously ready to go, for at least a moment and consider whether all that you are doing here is good and right.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e12142	The motion for a resolution which I have tabled is properly tabled and is under negotiation. I call Mr Dietachmayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e12167	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to dedicate my first sentence to Mr Peter. The current amendment to this law on the employment of children and young people now also gives firms the opportunity to recruit and train apprentices, who have always thought that they cannot do so by means of training-inhibiting provisions. The fact is that we are already with the novel on the employment law for children and young people, already with 1. This year has entered into force, many of the wishes of the economy have been met. The most important measure was the reduction of protection age from 19 to 18 years of age. Year of life. Now the enterprises can train apprentices from the 18th century onwards. Year of life, like their adult workmates, to work. Let me give you an example from Upper Austria. In the course of a review of teaching contracts in Upper Austria in the hospitality sector, it was found that the new apprentices were on average almost 16 years old. In concrete terms, this means that these apprentices fall under the provisions of the Child and Youth Employment Act for about two more years and can then be used for work by the teacher as well as the other adult workers. So: There is really no way of talking about anti-training regulations here. There's a lot going on here! Instead, I take some of the statements in the media from the terrifying lack of information about the measures we have already adopted and about the need for protection of young people. I would therefore like from this point of view, from all the critics who want to express their views on the protection of young workers in the near future, to take a closer look at the amendments which have already been adopted here in Parliament, together with their impact. Perhaps some then realize that many things have been changed, that much has already happened. The aim of this German Federal Government package of measures was to provide a sufficient number of apprenticeships for this year. Since the entrepreneurs have repeatedly signaled that the strict regulations would be guilty of the teaching situation, many negotiations in the spring of this year have tried to make changes, but without throwing the necessary protection of the active youth overboard. Finally, no one wants an increase in accidents at work or harmful effects on health. I think you all agree. An agreement was reached between the social partners shortly before the summer. The workers' interests now expect the economy to provide a sufficient number of additional apprenticeships for this year. Unfortunately, we all know that this has not yet been done enough and that there are still a lot of young people without a apprenticeship. These young people are not helped by the fact that some with ever new demands try to escape their at least moral obligation to provide teaching facilities to our youth. Perhaps I overestimate the potential of the economy in this area, perhaps it has already exploited all the possibilities and can no longer offer additional teaching places. But then I ask, ladies and gentlemen, with what seriousness demands and changed framework conditions are demanded again here today. We would rather have to talk about and think about additional training systems, because one thing is certain – that has already been mentioned –: We will also be able to make available a sufficient number of training places to our young people next year. I should like to sum up once again the major changes that we have made in favour of ensuring youth employment. First: There have been significant changes in the field of child and youth employment law, which simplify the employment of young people in large areas, such as the reduction of the age of protection. Secondly, In the case of bans on employment and restrictions, significant simplifications have also been made both from the classification of the new Regulation and in terms of content. Especially in this area, it was most difficult to keep technical changes in line with the protection of young people. In 1996, in the age group 15 to 19 years of age, about 15,000 accidents at work occurred, six of which were fatal. Thirdly, There have also been changes in the field of vocational training law which have taken account of the needs of the economy accordingly. In this respect, however, it should be noted that there are demands of entrepreneurs here depending on whether one wants to have a specialist or an apprentice. Here's a contradiction. If an entrepreneur needs a skilled worker, he should have as broad a qualification as possible so that he can use it as widely as possible. If he needs an apprentice, however, he does not want to be obliged by the respective profession to provide comprehensive and modern qualifications. There is still a fundamental reform in this area. I do not yet have any final amounts in the field of funding, but it is expected that some 2 billion shillings will be spent on all the measures provided by the Federal Government, the Länder, also by many municipalities and the labour market service in favour of additional apprenticeships. Finally, let us not forget that teachers now have to stop making health insurance contributions for the first three years of education. This discharge brings about 100 million schilling to the economy. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, a few words on our youth and on the protection of young people in general. To create and maintain youth protection laws for working young people also means to assume responsibility; Responsibility for the physical and psychological sphere, for the physical and mental development of young people. This young person, of course, is not yet in a position to recognise all the dangers arising in professional life as early as the first years of life, whether it be dangerous rays, toxins or dangerous machines. It cannot properly assess their dangers and take the right measures. Almost 15,000 accidents at work from 15 to 19 years of age in the previous year must, I believe, warn us enough. They show that youth protection is rarely taken seriously enough. Moreover, young people are not as taxable as adults, after all, growth lasts until 19. Year of life. Youth protection is therefore still necessary today. I expect that at a time when almost everything seems to be evaluated according to economic considerations, these facts will not be overlooked and youth protection provisions will not be presented as annoying, outdated provisions from the past. We are, of course, prepared to make a contribution to change wherever simplification is possible, without increasing the risk, for example through the use of modern security measures. Our aim is to create a sufficient number of additional apprenticeships, ladies and gentlemen. I would ask everyone to make a contribution to this, and thank all those who have already made this contribution.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e12242	Mrs Elfriede Madl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e12266	Mr President. High house! Mr Oellinger has polarized in his speech. He said that this novel of the Child and Youth Employment Act only met the assumptions and demands of the economy. I believe that we in this House believe that jobs can only be created, maintained and secured if they are Awareness is there and if both employers – i.e. the economy – and workers see the need to deal with each other. I cannot imagine that jobs and apprenticeships will then be secured if only one group and one representative of interest make their demands and give up the other representation of interest constantly. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In this case you have done a polarization today which we have been in this House for five years, I think, no longer spread. [[Abg. It's just a joke!]] – That’s not a joke, that’s my deepest conviction. Read in the Minutes what you said. I believe that the salami tactics with which the Federal Government and also this House want to solve problems – whether in the pension reform or in the youth employment law or in trying to effectively change youth unemployment – are going through as a red thread. It is therefore a salami tactic because this request and the amendment that exists here do not create 100 teaching places. Ladies and gentlemen! They all know very well that despite the efforts of the Federal Government to make the major announcements in the media that by the end of September or by autumn all young people will find a teaching place or a training place, absolutely do not vote. Thousands of young people still stand on the streets and do not know where they can be trained. Of course, hundreds of thousands of young people have been tried to spend a year in schools of general education and training, but, ladies and gentlemen, what is one year after this? – Why do you not choose to make real reforms here in this House? [[Abg. Murauer: Which one?]] Why do you always make a so-called salami tactics? What has the honourable Member said today? – It is a small step to success. [[Abg. Murauer: What are you proposing?]] Mr Murauer! It is just a small step, but now the youth unemployed are on the road year after year. [[Abg. Murauer: What do you suggest?]] I would like to know which young people and apprentices have spoken to colleagues who have said they want to talk about their free time. [[Abg. Murauer: Every contribution is fruitful if it makes sense! But I don't hear anything!]] Mr President, I should like to thank The young people today want to have a job first and then talk about their freedom. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That's the problem! You're completely wrong. I would like to know which young people you spoke to. I'd be really interested in what circles you're moving in. I am moving in the circles of young people waiting for them to get a job and then talk about leisure time. Why not make reforms? Why not at last renew the labour protection laws by breaking them up so that they are back in time and come to meet the young people as well? Why is there no expropriation of the compensation for apprentices? For example, why is the probationary period not extended? – That was a concern of yours too. Why did you withdraw this now? Why is this still not in committee? Why isn't this on the table today? [[Abg. Murauer: The way is very successful!]] You promised in Upper Austria at that time that in the first week of October, when plenary sessions are again – or in mid-October, when the next plenary sessions are – you will ensure that there are reliefs for businesses that make it tasty for businesses to recruit and train young people, you will bring in legislative proposals. My dear ÖVP! Mr Murauer from my constituency! You don't have anything on the table today. [[Further call of the Abg. Murauer.]] Sowieso. You're from the constituency of Traunviertel, just like me, aren't you? [[Abg. Murauer: I don't know where you moved!]] Of course, I am from the Traunviertel constituency, as Steyr-Land, Gmunden and Kirchdorf are known to belong to a constituency. You don't even know that! [[Abg. Murauer: I don't know where you moved! You didn't tell me!]] You do not know how to employ young people, and you do not even know in which constituency you are at home. But this is a testimonie for the ÖVP! One should finally sit at a table and decide on reforms which, first of all, make it tasty for apprentices to accept a teaching and, secondly, allow firms to train apprentices again.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e12415	Mrs Ridi Steibl is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e12439	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is already very interesting that there is once again such a polemization as at the previous item on the agenda in the discussion on the Employment Law on Children and Youth. It is from the FPÖ, which now wants to present itself as an employee party. As colleague Madl turned to the ÖVP said: You have not yet created a single youth workplace!, I would like to ask them how many they have created and how many the FPÖ? – We have recently created the 4,000 new youth jobs! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Böhacker: The companies have created them, not you!]] Much has already been said on this item on the agenda. [[Abg. Böhacker: The companies have created them, not you!]] – Mr Colleague! It's sitting up there a very big school class. That's our future! Youth is our future. What will these children think about this discussion here in the House? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Böhacker: The companies have created jobs!]] I believe – the ÖVP is in the best way – that youth employment is the most important concern at all, because if young people do not find work, human tragedies and system frustration are often the result. This innovation, in which a consensus has now been reached after some experience from practice, is very important, and I would like to fully endorse the remarks made by our first speaker, Mr Drinkl. I would just like to say that we must continue to work on it and also think about further steps. Another step is new teaching professions. And since it is very important to do something for girls and young women, because they have to take action more than ever before, but also want to take action because they sometimes have no choice and no corresponding professional advice. It is also important to say that teaching can and must be the basis of a career. – That was now a brief summary of this an Austrian topic. When we talk about child and youth employment and work, I believe it is also legitimate to talk about another form that exists throughout the world, including in Europe: the negative extent of child labour. There are horror numbers in this respect. We from the ÖVP have also made this area our responsibility. The International Labour Office estimated in 1996 – by an improved method – that among the five to 14 years of age there are 250 million children employed around the world – children between 5 and 14 years of age! Of these, 120 million work full time and 130 million work part-time. [[Abg. Gaugg: But you don't want to introduce that, do you? Will the ÖVP introduce this now?]] - Listen to me! You as mayor or mayor or what you were – I think you were sent to Vienna – could have changed that. [[Abg. Gaugg: With success!]] There are no signs of child labour in Austria, and that is also good. Due to strict checks by the Labour Inspectorate in 1996, there were only nine complaints about this type of work – thank God, one has to say. I believe that when we talk about child and youth work, we need a global discussion. Measures against this type of work must also be put outside Austria in order to improve this situation. The ÖVP has prepared a programme on this and has addressed the issue of child labour to protect our young people. We of the ÖVP support a comprehensive protection of young people in Austria, but also a comprehensive protection of children and young people around the world.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e12542	The next speech is by Mrs Schaffenrath. Speech time: 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e12563	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Ridi Steibl! I really do not think that this excitement which you bring to the FPÖ is appropriate, if you say what the ÖVP has done for the workplace situation, especially for young people, and what has prevented the FPÖ from doing everything. The ÖVP was already significantly involved in the so-called apprenticeship reform package, which I believe – I have said this more often from this point of view – really does not deserve the name "reform". [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steibl.]] Mr. Drinkl! If you are still trying to sell a half-hearted compromise on apprenticeship training as a good one, and if you are talking about a big step here, I must tell you that I can talk at most about a small step because thousands of young people still do not have a job, because the Minister of Education had to do something to help the budget to accommodate at least a few of these in the vocational education system; a grant of about 2.5 billion schilling. 5 600 and 2.5 billion schilling. [[Abg. Murauer: Not a few! 5 600!]] But we know that this problem is far from the table next year. Mr. Drinkl! You say you want to send signals to the economy that it is in good hands with you. I really wonder if you have actually lost contact with the base of the economy. I really have serious concerns. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: No, I didn't! You don't have to worry about that!]] Then I wonder – I also talk to many entrepreneurs – why do you not hear what framework conditions are actually required by the economy in the field of dual training system. You know them, too, because some of these claims were in your request, which was then withdrawn. [[Abg. Murauer: He was postponed!]] Then he was just postponed, but this delay principle is also at the expense of the many thousands of unemployed young people here in Austria. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Mr Dietachmayr! They feel it is a great step to have set the limit for apprentices to 18 years under the Child and Youth Employment Act – this is a limit which was already a valid limit for all other youth workers except the apprentices – but I cannot see this as a big step and as an essential change. For if we are serious about the protection of young people, then youth protection must apply to all: to apprentices as well as to other youth workers. I now join with Mr Oellinger, who believes that we should take care to deal with these provisions of protection. This is my opinion, but I wonder: What kind of protection is this in this new joint proposal for protection? What does this provision mean when it comes to the possibilities for these young people to recover? – For example, it is required that, when a youth works on a Saturday and then attends a vocational school, that is, 8 to 10 weeks in the vocational school, where Saturday and Sunday are usually free and the last day of school at the end of this course is usually a Friday, the apprentice has to have another day off at the end of this course in the following week. Moreover, over the calculation period, it has already been agreed that too many hours spent during schooling should be released from the entrepreneur. What kind of protection is that? What about leisure time to do with recreation opportunities for young people? [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I can't support your statement either if you ask: Should the establishments for training be repaid in the final consequence? – The companies did not ask for this massive AMS funding. Col. Reitsamer was proud to report how many teaching places were created by this, and I must insist on this: They were created by the AMS funding and not because of this apprenticeship package. I do not think this increase in resources of 34 per cent is satisfactory, but rather worrying, because this means that the funds will be restricted in the future, because this also means that the funds will be restricted for other necessary areas of the AMS; I am thinking of higher qualifications, the problems of re-entry, which will be lacking very important resources. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Reitsamer asks when the next request will come. I can tell her – and they will probably not be pleased – that our demands are already in Parliament in a variety of applications. We demand what representatives of the ÖVP in the media repeatedly demand, we bring it in. We are talking about reforming the vocational training law. We have included the extension of the probationary period, consideration of the retention period, the possibility of disbandment of the apprenticeship relationship in justified cases. We have also brought back the wage and social decoupling of teaching time, i.e. of working time training, and schooling. We want an internal restructuring of the vocational school in order to enable more flexible training models at all. In this regard, we can also talk about the partial teaching if the permeability in the last consequence is ensured. The dual training system is a very good system, but we have to make it a successful system through medium and long-term concepts. If young people and Austrian apprentices are successful with professional olives today, I am looking forward to this, but this does not mean a general high quality in our field of training. Ladies and gentlemen! I am sorry that the ÖVP has not been able to get through with its ideas once again. Mr Peter has already made a request from us to allow apprentices to work in the hospitality industry at least during the summer time until 23 o'clock. This is such a compromise that even the SPÖ colleagues could agree to it, because we do not yet convert our biological clock with the change of the clock. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meisinger]] If you are serious about training, please agree. Apprentices in the hospitality industry can only be trained when guests are there, because only then can they work there, only then will the situation arise for training at all. Leisure and rest, Mr Oellinger, is nevertheless safe because the night's rest is not affected. I believe that this would be a proposal that you too could agree with, and with that you could prove your acceptance. Ladies and gentlemen! I'll come to the end. I don't think we can talk about a reform for apprentices when apprenticeships – I say they're exaggerating it – are "placing" for entrepreneurs with the help of financial grants. Entrepreneurships and entrepreneurs want framework conditions that enable them to train young people again. We should give these conditions to Austrian entrepreneurs, not only in order to meet their economic interests – they are safe given because the well-qualified skilled skilled worker is an essential criterion for Austria as an economic location – but also in order not to build up the opportunities for all the thousands of young people who need a job and a training place.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e12654	The next speaker is Mr Seidinger. Speech time: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e12675	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I am convinced that no law has been passed in this House, which could ultimately be passed on to the 100% satisfaction of all. I believe that this law on the employment of children and young people is a step towards getting closer to the needs of young people, but also to the needs of the economy, and to conclude a compromise which can also be said to be acceptable. I know that many wishes remain open. Since my predecessor has listed a number of things about this, I would like to ask the question: Is this all for the protection of apprentices – or is it for the protection of entrepreneurs who employ apprentices? [[Abg. Schaffenrath: It is to improve the training system!]] – I have asked myself this question, I cannot answer it in this sense. I would like, ladies and gentlemen, not to repeat all that has already been said. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: You have to train apprentices first!]] – Ah, I am delighted with your excitement, because it seems that I have met something where you are sensitive. – But let me say a few more sentences here from the speaker’s desk. Ladies and gentlemen! If we compare our figures with those of other countries, we compare our unemployment figures with those of other countries, we compare the figures of youth employment or non-employment with those in other countries. In view of this, I believe that in Austria we are certainly not bad advice. Among other things, this draft law, which is under discussion, also includes an amendment to the Unemployment Insurance Act 1977, which aims to extend the possibility of entry into measures of the food industry's work foundation by the end of 1998. However, I also have to say - if we create a law that will provide practical additional teaching facilities - that actually relevant figures will not be meaningful until mid-October, because many young people make registrations at higher schools and also try to find a teaching place themselves. But one thing is clear: Youth unemployment fell by 2.7% in any case from 15 to 25 years of age and 4.2% in the 25 to 29 years of age compared with the previous year. In September 7 536 seekers were taught on the apprenticeship market. That's more than last year; at that time it was 5 582. 9 032 job seekers – 3,740 boys, 5 292 girls – are confronted with only 3,791 open apprenticeships. Compared to the previous year, this figure increased by 1 108 or 14 percent, but the number of open apprenticeships increased by 509 or by 15.5 percent. It should also be noted that the AMS has 1.4 billion schilling available for youth employment. These are training programmes in the field of public service, the financing of advisory teams, the acquisition of apprenticeships and the like. The figure of 7.5 billion schilling, often called into question, which is available for active labour market policy in the Federal Budget, is fact. We also note a general trend, namely that the number of apprentices in all sectors has fallen sharply. Let me compare the 1985 figures with the 1996 figures. In industry and crafts there was a decrease from 85 500 to 68 900, in industry from 24 900 to 13 800, in trade from 34 000 to 19 000, in money, credit and insurance there was an increase from 454 to 699 – in this one sector the figures have increased – and in the transport sector there was a decrease from 2 811 to 1 770. In the tourism and leisure sector, the then figure was 17 600; it is now slightly over 11 000. ==References== September 1997 states: "Only poorly-used companies lament at too high a cost of apprenticeship training. On the other hand, flourishing companies are able to benefit from apprenticeship training." – In this context, Mr Lassnig’s Institute for Higher Studies is sending out, and this study by the IHS also states that 40 percent of the firms do not raise the cost of teaching, i.e. 60 percent of those. This study also notes that 60 per cent of firms do not have their own training infrastructure at all. I believe that this is contrary to what is repeatedly demanded, because higher training is required, more and more skilled workers are required, and the costs are constantly being brought into the meeting, but they have fallen significantly since 1991. It is to be said that 35 to 40 percent of the apprentices also generate profits for the firms in which they work. There is massive support for farms. Today it has already been found that money is not possible to buy apprentices and apprenticeships. No, but one can create the conditions for the economy to be animated, but to provide more young people with training places so that in these training places, too, the skilled person needed later in these firms can grow. I would no longer like to say that there are no social security contributions in the first three years of education, that in particular cases 4000 s are made available per month, and others more; these are facts. But something already makes me staunch, that is, when the demand is raised – the section officer of the industry did it – that the time in which the apprentices sit in the vocational schools would be calculated from the apprentices' compensation. He even raises the demand to reduce the compensation for apprentices. This would mean massive income losses for many apprentices, which cannot be meant, and that is not the case. Please accept my request. It is only what the Federal Chancellor and the Federal Government have now repeatedly put forward to help apprentices in such a way that at the end of the year there is no one without school or apprenticeship training. [[Abg. Gaugg: Autumn!]] Mr Gaugg! I happen to have a hand in your hand, I thought I'd take it back, but I won't take it back, because you're contacting the entrepreneurs, and there it says: Dear Entrepreneur! Dear Entrepreneur! Today, I would like to take great responsibility for you, as an economic operator, and and and... – I do not do so much propaganda for you that I read it all! It's just below. I would also be particularly grateful in the name of many workers – you contact the entrepreneurs – if you could provide us with financial support by means of a cover copy. We want not only to remain politically independent, but also financially independent. – I wonder: From whom?
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e12757	The next speaker is Mr Gaugg. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e12784	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr Pre-Responsor: We want to be independent of an ÖGB that is no longer able to represent the interests of Austrian workers. [[Abg. Seidinger: You say that!]] Be honest with the two government parties: Where do you take your initiatives, where do you get them? . I have a very slow impression that you are leaving your common Federal Chancellor climate in the rain of what is happening to his apprenticeship initiatives. The fact is that 9 032 young people are currently looking for an apprenticeship. That's a fact! It has been said that in autumn all young people looking for an apprenticeship will also receive such a one. [[Call at the SPÖ: It is to be read where it takes!]] It is not only autumn, it is deepest darkness for this government, because in reality you will not bring anything more at all! Zero! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In June you operated with the Push Child and Youth Employment Act; now you continue this Push. When I transfer it to the Formula One language, I can say: You didn't even get out of the boxing road with your laws, there was already the first crash. Do you know what those who are supposed to keep from you to represent outside of all of this? – The innkeeper from Salzburg, who belongs to the ÖVP Group, has gone to the public and has said the following: This is a procedure which does not refer specifically to the problem-solving capacity of the coalition partners. – This is still politely expressed anyway. I have to tell you: Every pusser party would generate itself, it would produce such a work result as you do, which is the result of youth employment. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] These are the real numbers: The fact is that the number of job seekers increased by 14 percent compared to the previous year. Now I ask you again: Where's your initiative? There is a paper of June 1997, a comprehensive catalogue of measures to identify the actions to be taken in detail. – Not one was implemented, really not one! I always like it when Mr Drinkl, who works in a pseudo-business with a party-political fence, namely the Chamber of Commerce, talks about the economy. Go to a real business and find out where the real problems lie! You don't know what's really going on. They are in a pragmatic working relationship. You have no idea what is going on outside the small and medium-sized enterprises. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Drinkl.]] – Yes, of course, of course, you are cordially invited to make a contribution to more democracy in this Republic. I say this quite consciously to you because you decide here and today again a novel that contains nothing but this reduction by five hours. This is essentially the point. They are not in a position to create a framework for young people to be offered jobs and to encourage entrepreneurs to train apprentices. Mr ÖGB President Verzetznitsch is at all the best, yes he is at all the greatest, because in two days he celebrates his ten-year anniversary as ÖGB President in this country. In a press release today, he said to everyone: My aim is that everyone who becomes unemployed should be taught immediately or be trained accordingly. – I can only say: Mr Verzellnich has the opportunity to do this exactly 200 000 times and immediately – and we will measure it because he has been ÖGB President for ten years, and he has shared this unemployment in Austria. You from the coalition government, which you only deal with each other with accusations, are a matte party. In reality, you are at the end of your Latin, and therefore it is high in the time that there is once a redemption in this hall, also a spiritual redemption. Because your committee chairman goes out and praises labour market statistics. - Dear, gracious woman! There's nothing left to beautify. That's sad reality! I urge you to make the laws in the future in such a way that they will last for at least two or three years. That would really be recommended to this coalition government, which is supposed to have such a high level of solution. – But every day she proves that this is not the case.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e12857	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Stummful. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e12887	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me a few basic comments. First comment: I'd like to admit: What we decide here today is a repair novel, not a question at all. It is a new repair because we have done so in the EU's adaptation of these provisions, which the Austrians very often have as their own, namely to play and believe in the model student, which must be applied particularly generously. That's admitted. As Secretary-General of the Chamber of Commerce, however, I must say: If the undertakings concerned had ceased to do so in the course of the review as after the decision had been taken, this would never have been decided. We have to say that very clearly. I also said that to the sectors concerned. [[Abg. Haigermoser: (some leaves keeping paper high) Your broadcasts! A whole bunch!]] Secondly, Mr Haigermoser: I am in favour, even though Mrs Reitsamer has criticized the way I hear – I wasn't in there right now: This novelle, which is a repair novel, is not a guarantee that the training of firms will now change rapidly. There are still a number of conditions that we still need to change. I also said here in the debate before the summer, that this novelle is a first, important step, but it is only a first step. We need to improve further framework conditions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meisinger.]] – Mr Colleague! Because politics is drilling hard boards and at the push of a button nothing goes! In every Western democracy this is so. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] They come out here and pretend that there's a button here that you press on – and everyone's voting like that. We live in a democracy. [[Abg. Haigermoser: You can't drill the board without a drill! You got the drill out of your hand!]] We must look for democratic majority groups, dear friend, even if you, of course, do not want to have the lead principle. I know. We need a majority here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Please close the bottom drawer!]] Third observation, ladies and gentlemen: Our dual training system – and this must also be seen positively, precisely because everything is always negatively seen by your group – which is based on the fact that the enterprises are very aware of their responsibility for youth training, has led us to have the lowest youth unemployment rate of 4.5 percent of all EU countries today; the EU average is 10.6 percent. Some EU countries have 20 and 25 percent youth unemployment. [[Abg. Haigermoser: In Sardinia it is 38 percent!]] This is a merit of our businesses and their high responsibility for training our youth, because we know that the best investment in the future is the investment in the education of our youth. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Fourth point: I fully recognise – and I would like to expressly say this – the commitment of the Federal Chancellor in this area, including his four-phase plan: first phase: Call on businesses, second phase: public institutions should also recruit apprentices, third phase: Apprenticeship Foundation, fourth phase: Training place at schools. Only one thing I would like to say very clearly – I have said this recently in the Social Ministry: We must be very careful that we are not going in the wrong direction in this area, because there are already models here that do not really have much to do with dual training. I have looked at a case myself in the Social Ministry – I call it the name – the case of OMV-Gänserndorf. It is about the creation of 25 apprenticeships, with a training effort of the public sector, that is from AMS, country and municipality, per apprentice and month of about 30 000 p.m. ladies and gentlemen! I think it is irresponsible to expect tens of thousands of small entrepreneurs... [[Abg. Haigermoser: Who's doing this?]] We have prevented this, Mr Haigermoser. We can co-shape. That's the difference to you: You can only make demands, we can co-design. We have prevented this concrete model. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Blünegger: These are your displeasures!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We really have to pay attention to this. We cannot expect tens of thousands of small entrepreneurs to carry out training at their expense and we can allow a few to operate with incredibly high public support. One last, ladies and gentlemen, I think I have already said it here, and I say it again: We really need to consider whether we are going the right way if we believe the taxpayer that our universities are training thousands of sociologists, political scientists and psychologists every year who, when they are finished with their training, are immediately being retrained. But in those areas where we need urgently needed professionals: That's the business, they're supposed to do this on their own! – I mean, we need a total rethinking in education policy. We also need to make vocational training attractive to businesses.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e13031	The next speaker is Mr Dolinschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e13052	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The application for a decision now before us now makes it possible, in particular, for food-producing establishments to reduce the weekend leave for apprentices. This compromise is a partial success – I admit – for apprentices, a partial success for the economy, which constantly complains of apprentices being too expensive and could not be used efficiently enough. The basic consideration of this request is correct. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it has already been mentioned before me that this novel is a repair. I am glad that you have this insight, for insight is the best way to improve. I am also of your opinion if you say that the willingness of businesses to recruit apprentices will continue to be limited in the future. I just see this because the companies really don't need apprentices at all. Increasing unemployment, increasing and unnecessary protection rules naturally aggravate this situation. Courses can only create the economy, both in the private sector and in the public sector. However, the framework must create policy. The Federal Government has so far done nothing except announcements and alibiactions. These should only serve to improve the image of the Federal Chancellor – whether this was an image improvement, of course, it can be argued about – such as the apprentice shotline, which was a single flop. [[Objection to the SPÖ.]] That was a single flop! Of 108 young people who have reported, 81 have already been reported to the AMS; 27 remain. So if that wasn't a flop, please, what's a flop? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The Federal Chancellor said that he wanted to face youth unemployment with priority programmes at government level. Although we have a relatively low youth unemployment rate in Austria compared to the EU, we currently have the highest youth unemployment that has ever occurred in Austria. Of course, we have to say that. Measures are being speeded up here, which in fact does not exist at all. In the public service, apprenticeships have been eliminated, and for the private sector there are framework conditions which are extremely limited to the interest in training apprentices. The AMS has been invited to provide a training place for each job seeker in autumn. The labour market service has said that this is not feasible. I'm of the opinion, too. In addition, in the next six months, any youth who registers in the labour market service will be offered any employment; this does not necessarily have to be an apprenticeship. This is, of course, a possibility, but if someone strives for a teaching, it is not the yellow of the egg for those, and the level of education of course also decreases. If you train young people for a job in which they find no job afterwards, I have to say: You just put the problem in front of you, and you've learned a lot that won't find a job. And then there is the same problem there, as is the case with the young teachers. 5 600 schools for non-society apprentices They are not found in Austria either; they are simply not available. In reality, we do not have enough training places, too few establishments willing to train apprentices, and the labour market service has an insufficient budget – this should already presuppose the 1998 budget. Promotions to the establishments can only be paid next year, and there is no agreement as to whether apprentices in the hospitality industry may work one hour longer in the evening if they start one hour earlier in the morning. We liberals made a request on this subject as early as 1991. He's been brought in three times, but he's always been rejected.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e13115	The next speaker is Mr Murauer. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e13137	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In his remarks, Mr Haigermoser wondered why the Freedom Party in Upper Austria did not reach 28, as originally announced, not 25 or 23 percent, but only 20 percent and the Austrian People's Party was able to cut well by 42 percent. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: How much did the ÖVP have before?]] Mr Haigermoser! The recipe is relatively simple: at the top a successful person with a corresponding program, including a youth employment programme. This will ensure success! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Young: "Victor" you continue like this!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Colleagues from the Freedom Party! Once you have reached half of our result, we can continue to talk, but don't always talk about your great successes! In Upper Austria, we have succeeded – and I would like to mention this in this context – in presenting an apprenticeship programme, a youth employment programme, and we have achieved that the economy, which tradesmen have agreed to accept this as well and to recruit more apprentices accordingly, and that the young people who have been addressed have also shown a little more flexibility and said: We not only focus on certain training places, but we also like to accept others. – This has been and has been the successful path in Upper Austria. We will continue this path, too, Mr Haigermoser. Ladies and gentlemen! To protect young people and children. The Austrian People's Party has proved that it has always stood up for the protection of children, that it has always stood up for the protection of young people. If Mr Oellinger believes that it is more Christian to protect youth, that is true. But it is also Christian to give the youth work. It is also Christian to give youth employment. And this policy pursues the Austrian People's Party. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We can all, I believe, find ourselves with some objectives: Youth needs jobs and training, and we in this House must secure tomorrow's skilled workers' potential and the economic location. As a Member of Parliament from Steyr, I would like to point out that there are quite a number of industrial enterprises that accept the skilled worker potential and therefore settle in Austria, because of the quality of workers and women workers. The dual training system has proved its worth at national level, and international attention is given to this possibility of training. We do not want to get rid of this training system. The teaching is generally to be attracted. The training must not be a dead end. I think we can all find ourselves. If certain parties do all of this over and over again and say what could not happen, what has not yet been done, it does not create jobs. We must give young people the future and hope, and together we must go the way of employment for our young people, and this is what we do about the Austrian People's Party. As Mr Gaugg said that nothing had happened at all, I should like to remind him that there is a long list of points that have already been completed. This is from the discharge of health insurance to the reduction of the age of protection to the possibility of introducing "window days". New teaching professions have been created, teaching firms have been more taken into account in the award of public contracts – and more. I could list you a long list here, and we must also tell the economy that we have done all these points already, that it has become more attractive in our country to train apprentices. We removed a number of obstacles. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that we can also convince our coalition partners and the other parties of those points of the programme which have not yet been completed. We need a part of the teaching of the weak; we have it, and they should also be able to learn a profession. We need start jobs, as we did in Upper Austria, starting jobs for those, Mrs. colleague Madl, who have no practice... [[Abg. Madl: Act!]] [[Abg. Madl: Act!]] We have acted, and the youth has voted in election – even if you do not want to do so! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! The hospitality needs longer working hours, including in the case of apprentices aged 16 and over. That is why in the foreseeable future we will also make it possible for the apprentice to work until 23 o'clock and enjoy his training. We need better professional information as early as the fourth level, and we also want to extend the probationary period a little. Ladies and gentlemen! We're on the best way. Let us go this way together – in the sense of our young people! Youth employment programme and apprenticeship training, this is not a matter of a moment, but we must always adapt to the new circumstances and make adjustments. I repeat the objective of our family community, the People's Party: to ensure as many young people as possible work and training in this country.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e13251	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Hazelsteiner. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e13272	Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The coalition parties, in this novel, follow an exercise which I believe is not highly recommended and so to speak, do not dizzy, but bring a second matter to the vote, and that is a change to the unemployment insurance law, which is in a completely different context and has nothing to do with youth promotion. This is about the food foundation, a foundation created two years ago in the context of an EU adaptation for unemployed food workers and workers. Now, with the reason that the process has not yet been completed under the Structural Adjustment Act, the time frame of entry, which was then useful until 31 December. In December 1997, a further year was scheduled to be extended. I would now like to explain why we do not agree to this request. Ladies and gentlemen! If we start to accompany structural processes in the economy, so to speak, permanently with such foundations, we will need such a foundation for every industry and for all things. If we do not inflation this foundation instrument if we do not want to create two categories of unemployed people – those who are privileged because they are within a foundation, and those who fall through the rust and are "poor dogs", then we must not speak of this differentiation. I'm sorry there's something like that. I believe that there will be such adaptation processes, but they are not only available in the food industry, but also in the construction industry, also in tourism and in many other sectors. In any case, we have a fundamental problem in this Republic, and this is the different treatment of the same acts, particularly in the social field. I am not even talking about the need for harmonisation on the pension issue, because this is still a category about it. In many other areas this is the case, and this is not useful for social peace, social balance. That is why, and only for this reason, we will reject this proposal. I did not really want to comment on the question of apprentices, but it has been said so much positively, for example by my previous speaker, Mr Murauer, that I consider it important to say something about this too. Since I have several dozen apprentices – I don't know and in the short time I couldn't figure out how many dozens it is, I suppose it's about 150 – I can tell you: Ladies and gentlemen, you sit on an illusion! You can't believe what you're saying here! You have at best postponed the apprenticeship problem this year. The Federal Chancellor, all the members of the government – and I do not know who else – has been mobilized because it cannot be what must not be. You've achieved a little bit – I admit – but you'll have to pay the price for it next year. You forget that a teaching relationship on average lasts three years, and today you have violently grafted everything in and will have to pay the token for it next year. Ladies and gentlemen! You have only solved the problem for a year, which is also a merit, I must say, but you should admit it and be aware that next year you will have the same problem, but then potentated. My fear is that you yourself believe that you have achieved something positive, structurally in the right direction. But that is, I fear – and we are not in conflict – not the case: You have not made apprenticeship training more attractive for entrepreneurs, you have not changed the framework conditions in the right direction, and therefore you will not achieve anything with this law or with this novel. Mr. Stumbling! – Unfortunately, he's not here anymore. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: I'm watching!]] Mr President, I am glad that you listen to me. . The time, Mr Stummvoll, where you bought something, where you have settled businesses, supported jobs and apprenticeships massively, is over. We've already learned this lesson. At the latest since Semperit we should know that these things can no longer be done, so we demand a massive commitment. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Even if you have prevented the worst in a particular case, you should know that the drugs used by the AMS are at best medication, but do not mean healing therapy. This will simply mean that these things will have to fail. I am not of the opinion of a colleague of mine who said: AMS – a matte thing!, I am not of this opinion, but I believe that the AMS is generally acceptable, but the insertion of the AMS on this issue will not significantly improve the matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e13325	No further words are available. That concludes the debate. There is no need for a final word on the part of the report. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the draft law, amendments and motion for a resolution. – I would like to ask you to take the places. For the draft law, MEPs have power. Peter and comrades submitted an additional request. Mr Reitsamer, Mr Feurstein and Mr Comrades have also tabled an amendment and an amendment. Mr Haigermoser and Mr Comrades have tabled an additional request. In addition, Mr Haigermoser and Mr Öllinger have ever asked for a separate vote, which I will take into account. First of all, I will vote on the parts concerned by the supplementary and amending proposals and the parts affected by the request for separate vote, in line with the classification of the draft law, and finally on the remaining parts of the proposal, which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Mag. Peter and comrades have submitted an additional request concerning the insertion of a new point 1 in Article I and the amendment of the point designation. I should like to ask that those ladies and gentlemen who stand up for it give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule I(1) as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who stand up for this to be a corresponding sign. – This is decided by a majority. The Members of Parliament, Mr Reitsamer, Mr Feurstein and Mr Comrades, have tabled an additional request concerning the inclusion of paragraph 1a in Article I. I should like to ask that those ladies and gentlemen who agree with the motion for a resolution by Reitsämer, Mr Feurstein, give a sign of approval. – This is adopted by a majority. The next item is the vote on Rule I(2) and (3), as amended by the Committee's report, and I should like to ask you to give a sign of this in case of approval. – I notice: Decision-making by a majority. Mr Haigermoser and Mr Comrades have tabled an additional proposal which concerns the inclusion of a new point 3a in Article I and the amendment of the implementing clause. In the event of approval, I may request a sign on this matter. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Mr Reitsamer, Mr Feurstein and Mr Comrades also tabled an amendment concerning Article I(4). In the event of approval, I may request a sign on this matter. – This is accepted by a majority. Next, I shall vote on Article II as amended by the Committee's report. I would ask for a sign of approval if it is granted. – I notice: Decision-making by a majority. We shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. In the event of approval, I would like to ask for a sign on this matter. I note that the remaining parts of the draft law have been adopted by a majority. This concludes the second reading. We shall immediately reach the third reading. I should like to ask that those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval at third reading give a sign on this point. – The proposal was adopted by a majority of the third reading. The vote will now be taken on the motion for a resolution by Mr Ollinger on the control of vocational training. I should like to ask that those ladies and gentlemen who agree with the motion for a resolution give an indication of this. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. We have thus dealt with the first item on today's agenda. 2. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 264/A by Mr Mag. Herbert Hauptand comrades concerning a federal law amending the General Social Security Act (877 of the Supplements) 3rd. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the proposal from the European Parliament and the Council to the Council (Doc. Herbert Hauptand comrades concerning a federal law amending the Constitution of Labour (878 of the Supplements) 4. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment 377/A by Mr Hermann Böhackerund Comrades on a Federal Act amending the General Social Security Act (879 of Supplements) 5. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment 388/A (E) by Dr Volker Kierund Comrades on the establishment of a Federal Social Assistance Act (880 of the Supplements) 6. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 392/A (E) by Mr Karl Oellingenrund Comrades on the concept of overtime reduction (881 of supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e13524	We come to points 2 to 6 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. A request for oral reporting is not available to me on any of the requests. I shall be the first speaker to give Mr Mag. It's the main word. The watch is set to 3 minutes by your own request. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e13552	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The following five opposition parties have, as always, a fate: While most of them were discussed in their broad outlines, they were finally rejected by the two government parties in so far as they were requests by the liberals, or, to the extent that they were requests by the other opposition parties, they were converted into resolutions by appropriate amendments. In principle, it would be useful, in the social field in particular, to invite everyone to solve the difficult problems, whether it be the difficult problems of financing in hospitals or the difficult problems of social security, pension insurance and job creation, to keep up with them, and perhaps to discuss them together, and not to put the ritual of the past into action as a perpetuum mobile in the future, namely that everything that the opposition brings must be put on top of the long-term bank and then perhaps through the back door, as for example the item on the agenda, in constantly recurring repair steps. I would like to concentrate solely on equality between non-public and public hospitals in social insurance because of the short speaking time in my speech. Our request dates back to 1996 and is still valid from the point of view of the time. It is true that, as the two government parties have said, today there is a three-year contract with the main association of social security funds, but it is not right that the same system should now be applied to non-public hospitals and public hospitals because: In the case of public hospitals, benefits are still not fully funded, but on the contrary: Depending on the federal state, base or total budgets have developed, which are outside the performance orientation. In the Federal Republic of Carinthia, the most extreme case, the 60 percent of the total volume is concerned, in other federal states it is between 20 and 30 percent of the budgets, and the rest comes from social security funds. In this discussion, however, it must not be forgotten that 56 percent of the benefits that flow to the hospitals are no longer from contributions, but from the public sector – from tax benefits of the countries, the municipalities and the federal government. I therefore only think it justified that, if public and non-public hospitals have a share in basic public care in Austria – which is not public by 12 per cent, the public with the rest – they are going to feed non-public hospitals for their share of basic care not as eternal bidders with contracts with the main association of social security providers, but also to give the 3 500 employees employed there the same social security as those in public hospitals. In view of the fact that services in non-public hospitals can be offered at a cheaper price compared to those provided to public hospitals at the same services and the same services, it is therefore the cheaper variant, and in view of the shortage of resources of public funds, that this area should be re-examined. We liberals have therefore meant that, without prejudice to the current situation of the three-year contract of the main association of social security funds with non-public hospitals, it would be reasonable to carry out a similar refund in this area and where the same benefits are offered. The Federal Government has given consideration to the fact that in those who visit non-public hospitals with the permission of their health insurance, 80 percent are to be recovered and 20 percent self-retainable. This has led those who have supplementary health insurance to accept this offer and come to the care faster, while those who do not have an additional insurance do not accept this offer, are on the waiting list and can therefore later come into the enjoyment of postponable cures. I do not think it is in the interest of any group in this Parliament to introduce a two-class medicine eo ipso. I therefore hope that the rejection of the Social Committee is not yet the last word. We liberals hope that there will be a long-standing equality in this area, and I am sure that this would not be to the detriment of cost-reliance and security of care in that state.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e13614	The next speaker is Mrs Silhavy. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e13635	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I am not going to respond to the two requests relating to the revision of the ASVG for reasons of time. Our colleague Dr. Pittermann will do this in detail in her debate. On the request of the Liberals concerning the amendment of the Constitutional Labour Act, I would like to express our position briefly: We are also seeking an extension of the time limit for termination, and I know from discussions with the Ministry of Social Affairs that it is also very difficult to do so. I hope that the next amendment to the Constitutional Labour Act will be able to find a regulation on this subject. However, this also requires political majority on this matter of law. However, the proposal also contains the removal of the right of establishment of the works council, and it should be assumed that applicants know the legal situation, but I will show it again. [[Abg. Blünegger: Thank God!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The individual right is guaranteed by the fact that, in the event of a statement of reasons, the individual's right of challenge is given in any case and can be sued for invalidity after the ABGB if there is an inaccurate consent in the event of cancellations for economic reasons. What you want with this request is not the strengthening of individual rights, but the destruction of the perception of collective interests. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Blünegger.]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They know very well that it is almost impossible for individual workers to achieve a social balance themselves or even to negotiate a social plan. In your forced effort to destroy successful institutions, you are not concerned with the perception of employee interests, but with the fight against democratic organisations such as works councils, because you are obviously not successful there. [[Abg. Blünegger: This is an understatement!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Mr President, I should like to thank Obviously, you really have no idea how it is in businesses. What this means in business practice, the colleague Bauer will describe, because she works in a farm and knows what that means in practice – unlike you! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Gaugg: Where are you busy? In a free establishment?]] Mr President, I should like to thank Then listen to Mr Bauer's comments! Maybe you too are capable of learning. I hope for your group. The Liberal Forum's proposal on the creation of a Federal Social Assistance Act clearly contains interesting approaches, but, as we all know, the current system of competence is such that it opposes this request. That is why we have tabled an amendment to the Committee's proposal to the effect that the Minister for Labour, Health and Social Affairs has to talk to the countries about how the development of social assistance can take place. In this amended form, we have approved this request because we believe that this issue is really very important and should also be renegotiated with the countries. I would also like to make a few comments on the Greens' request for a concept of overtime reduction. 37.4% of men and 25.5% of women did overtime in 1995. Last but not least, in this House, we have adopted a working time legislation which allows flexible working time arrangements to be made on collective contracts, namely flexible working time arrangements, which should be of benefit not only to the employer but also to the employee. However, the reduction of working time is still a matter, even if it is not heard by the economy, and the reduction of regular overtime is undoubtedly also part of it. We do not want to be surprised by jobs like in America or in the Netherlands, where the reduction of working time is so that people are put on part-time leave, with wage cuts that have drastically reduced wage levels in these countries. We also believe that new regulations and new working time models are important. For this reason too, we have tabled an amendment, namely that a chapter on the effects of the flexibility of working time on the overtime performance of workers should be included in the Social Report 1997. We have also agreed to this amendment in the form of it, because we are convinced that working time planning, working time forms and the extent of overtime are an important question of the division and distribution of work. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e13730	The next speaker is Mr Dr Kier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e13751	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to focus on two partial aspects, and I would like to focus on one very briefly, as this matter was partly discussed in detail in the Committee on Social Affairs, which refers to the statements made by my immediate predecessor, Mrs Silhavy. I believe that we will not find ourselves as quickly as possible on the question of the means of challenge in the event of the termination for economic reasons. We still believe that this proposal has the right intention and it is a pity that it has not been possible to discuss it. The reference to the ABGB would be kind of likeable to me the right theory, because I still consider the ABGB – with all its age weaknesses, which it also has – to be a millennium law. But that this is just an argument in this dimension, you should make yourself thinkful. Love the ABGB It's not that much for you otherwise. I would remind you, for example, of the discussion at the time on whether to embed consumer protection in the ABGB or to make a law of its own. It's been a little longer. I would just like to remind you that you normally make a bow around the ABGB and do some wrong to it. If you now put on the paragraphs in the area of § 870, this is not the legal area I would like to have before the labour courts. – You understand what I mean by that. We need to talk about it for a longer time. But in order not to be too long here, I come to the actual point I wanted to deal with, namely, Amendment No 388/A (E), which, as a result of the amendment, has also found a majority in the Committee. Mr Silhavy has already referred to this. The question is about the creation of a Federal Social Aid Act. I have understood the discussion in the Committee and I have seen that the concern is broadly majority. This results in the resolution adopted by a majority in the Committee. I would like to declare that we will also vote for this Committee report here and today. Although I have shown a different vote in the Committee because I understandably defended my own motion, I was unable to vote on the latter by means of the mechanism in the amendment. It is not the success we have hoped for, but it is a very essential success, because the great majority of the committee - and, as I hope, this House - has recognised talks in a very specific direction as necessary. It is really a question of having to consider whether the territory of the Republic of Austria is really so large that it is not possible to build up certain things, of course, with regional differentiation, which is the cost of living and so on, according to uniform mechanisms. There are really dramatic and strange differences between the federal states, such as the replacement of full housing costs in one state and the appropriate housing costs in another, and loud things like that. It would therefore be desirable for the guidelines to be made in accordance with clear and uniform rules. It is about creating equal access to justice, for example on the issue of the commitment to apply or on the right of office. All of this could be harmonised. The definition of the regular monthly reference period would also be something that could be standardised. If, for example, I am thinking about the things that have been played out in individual federal states, I must say that, for example, the question of the limitation of the exploitation of assets, i.e. the question of wealth, is something that urgently calls for harmonisation, and also the question of the limitation of the rule when it comes to current reference to open social assistance. Now I'm going to make the loop the ABGB. Suddenly dead law is discovered in the ABGB. In other words: It seems that an emergency valve has been discovered as a result of the financing needs in the field of social assistance, and it has been recognized that there is this old archaic law, according to which children are in need of maintenance. This is an old right, and it comes from a time when the children were actually the only social security of the people, from the time of the great families. If you individualize this in this form, you choose access to privatisation in the area of social demands of old people as in early 19. ==References====External links== Suddenly, we drop general solidarity like a hot apple. Now this is still in the law, and there is the possibility to apply it. But I think it would be useful – and that is why this resolution came about – if the Minister of the State, in cooperation with the federal states, were to consider where a reasonable, more appropriate limit to the reality of life could be drawn, because there are very different circumstances in which one can enter this obligation as a child. This may be, for example, an emergency that is actually related to the childhood/parenthood relationship. But it can also be the father or mother suddenly in the second, third or fourth "springing" or have juxtaposed her entire pension system and then say: I'm in distress. Do you understand what I mean? – These are archaic forms, and if we could find a different solution for this, that would be better. We do not really disagree on this question. Mrs Silhavy! You may not be quite happy about this debate, because in individual federal states this is occasionally the case with some national councillor or a national councillor of yours. But if I look, for example, at what is currently going on at the rhinestone level – with regard to the limitation of the current regress – in the Styria, then I don't really think this is funny. [[Abg. Silhavy: In the case of social assistance workers, that was my argument!]] Of course! Please read what the competent Council of State in Salzburg has requested: As long as someone seeking social assistance does not prove to him that he has already sued his children for maintenance, he no longer needs to come. I mean, these are archaic legal forms that we should overcome. I am very positive about the fact that, together and with a large majority, we have recognized that this is a subject that needs to be addressed in calm, factual discussions. It is probably a long way ahead of us because the federal states may suddenly discover that this may become an exchange business in connection with the financial compensation and that the Quasi State reform will suddenly receive an additional facet. But I don't want to do this anymore. So this can become a thorny way. But if we do not follow this path, then, as I think, we make a mistake, because it would be necessary to agree on the highest level – and in our case the Republic – those actions that are, of course, also taken locally. The closer you represent something like social assistance on the ground, the closer you are to the problem. But the clearer the environment, the better one may be avoided occasionally – carefully expressed; They know what I mean – inconsistency, a certain inconsistency on the ground, but at the expense of the poorest. In this sense, we shall vote in favour of this resolution, as the majority have found it. We believe that it is, after all, a small step in the right direction, although not what we wanted. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e13791	The next speaker is Mr Dr Höchtl. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e13812	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Let me make a few comments on these five requests, each one or two of them. First of all, I believe that each of the applications submitted by various opposition parties has been evaluated and discussed. Where the possibility of further development has existed, it has been taken. To the request of the liberals for equality between public and non-public hospitals. I think, Mr President, one must add, in a spirit of meritorism, that this claim has largely been fulfilled and overtaken by the introduction of the service-oriented hospitalization instead of the KRAZAF. We must also bear in mind that a completely free hospital choice without any contractual relationship is really difficult and feasible. The second request was also made on the part of the liberals and concerns the employment constitution law or, in particular, Mrs Silhavy's breach of the Works Council. What's this about? – I have to say that I have a very strong sympathy for removing this barrier. I say this very openly, because I always thought – and the ÖAAB has held this view for years – that wherever it is possible to strengthen the individual rights of the worker, we should also implement them. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What prevents me from agreeing is that we also value the value of social partnership agreements very, very high. Especially the Labour Constitution Act was always a matter in which we said: The social partners should discuss this and try to find common solutions. This area is really the starting point, as the social partners have always tried to find common solutions. That means: In terms of content, although I have sympathy for this request, I would like the social partners to agree on this. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] The third request calls for the abolition of the health certificate fee. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! First: To decide retroactively would really cause chaotic conditions, and chaos is the last thing we want to achieve with a legal provision! This has to be said here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Secondly, we must say that financial considerations have already brought a lot. A total of 500 million schillings have arrived in one year. That's not a bagatelle! You must also bear in mind that the number of health certificates actually required has been significantly reduced. Where we can see opportunities for reduction and meaningful savings, we should also perceive them. That is why we have come to know about it. Furthermore, since then the health insurance companies – we have to note this positively – have been one of those who also write black numbers, and that is something we can undoubtedly look forward to economically. On the request of the Liberal Forum concerning a Federal Social Assistance Act. Ladies and gentlemen! I am glad that Mr Kier mentioned here that the Committee had a detailed meritorical discussion on this subject and that the Minister for Social Affairs had been asked, by means of an appropriate request, to hold talks with the countries on the development of social assistance. As a convinced federalist, however, I would like to say: We keep the competences of each country very high. This area lies in the competence of the countries. I mean, if there can be some improvement in content here or there, then this is to be welcomed, but in no way should this country competence be transferred back to the federal level. Last point: Reduction of overtime. This concerns the Greens' request. I mean, this is a request based on considerations as little Maxi imagines: So and so many overtimes are available, we divide the sum by the number of so and so many people, and we already have new jobs. – Dear to me Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! First: Such a milkmaid bill can't go on! Secondly, It is quite simple that the most diverse qualifications are required for the respective jobs and the overtime hours in the workplace. This is also to be considered regionally completely differentiated. Wherever possible, we have always tried to divide the work into several people. But it's not that simple that you just take the sum of overtime, divided by the number 40 and say: Aha, now we have new jobs! - That's too cheap. That's not how it is, ladies and gentlemen. We from the government parties are of the opinion that: If meaningful contributions are made by the opposition parties, then we need to discuss this meritorically and to address the problems of a solution. But if something is asked for, then you must also answer with a clear no!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e13888	Mr Oellinger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e13910	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr Höchtl! No one has assumed that you are doing something cheap! [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: But understand!]] But as simple as you represent it, it's not. It is about reducing overtime, and it has already been said a lot in other debates today. I therefore limit my comments to the fact that I agree with what is included in the resolution, which is also carried by us, that there should be a report on the overtime in the Social Report – quite agreeable – as a start. Mr Höchtl! You will not be able to discuss the problem of many full-time jobs being converted into small employment in recent months, while people in these minor employment conditions or even in part-time jobs, which go far beyond normal working hours, will not be able to do away with them! This is a problem, one of the many problems that should also be considered in this context. However, I would also like to make a few comments on the comments made by Mr Silhavy, who have somewhat surprised me, even though they were addressed to the addresses of the Members of the Freedom Party. It was too cheap for me to make the individual right that way! It's really too cheap. Of course, no one – I do not know, however, whether the liberals want to do so – wants to eliminate the works council body. One could still discuss what the liberals are planning, but since there are also some works councils among the liberals, I assume that they also have their experiences. [[Abg. Meisinger: No submissions!]] I must say that my experience of the conduct of works councils is not only positive. They are also heading in the direction that, in some cases – not in many cases, I repeat: in some cases – works councils agree to a termination because it concerns a political or otherwise unloving person. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] There is. There is also the other case – unfortunately the women's minister is not here – and this is also true in practice, for example, that a male works council agrees to the termination of a woman because he represents the opinion: She can stay at home, but the man can't. – Mrs Silhavy! What are we gonna do? What are we doing in such a case? – I can only say: Then, unfortunately, we had bad luck! Then I have no right, then I can only claim the ABGB. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] Yeah, I know, but that's too cheap for me. What I want – and so I have understood the request of the liberals; so if you want to, you could clarify it – is only that this possibility exists. Of course, in the proceedings before the Labour Court, the Works Council should use this opportunity to assert its arguments. If, however, the Works Council has nothing to say before the Labour Court, I have therefore agreed to the termination of this woman because it is easier for her to stay at home! I hope that the judge has failed in this case than the works council who used this argument. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That's a problem we can't discuss away. Mr Silhavy! You shake the head, but I could call you some cases from the post and the train, where personnel representatives made such a thing. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edler.]] Mr. Edler! We do not need to debate much about this. I may limit it to the field of mail, because I have specific cases in this area. These are cases in which persons who, when there was no legal protection in the Chamber of Labour, first went to the union. However, since the staff representative who agreed to the termination was identical to the trade union representation, he said as a trade union representative: no representation by the trade union. This, although the trade union member was involved! As a result, this trade union member went to the Chamber of Labour – in Upper Austria it was; quite specific cases – and said: I want to be represented by you. The Upper Austria Chamber of Labour – which was the case before the Chamber of Workers reform – then said: Not from us, please! [[Abg. Meisinger: This is about political displeasure!]] These cases exist, and there are clearly political displeasures that have been pushed out in this way. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Meisinger.]] I am not saying that this is the case in many cases, but in these cases the individual should also have the right to object to a termination that seems to have been made for economic reasons – just as if it is "only" – under quotation marks – of a woman. He should be able to represent his rights before the Labour Court. There the works council or the body should first declare that this behaviour of a single one, for example, contradicts a planned social plan. It is possible to imagine that there is a well-negotiated social plan which is undermined by the behaviour of a single person. Then you have the opportunity to extract this argument in court. No works council that has negotiated a good social plan needs to be afraid of this before. It is only those works councils that need to be afraid otherwise. I believe that in 1997 we cannot go so far as to challenge this individual right to terminate, simply with such negligent arguments and say that this is a cheap propaganda that is being used against the Works Council. – Only so much is noted. With regard to social assistance, I would just like to say: As we have had a very productive discussion in the Committee, which, however, has led to the conclusion that the majority believe that we do not need a change, and as we have also made a request from the Greens for this law, we will anyway be discussing the reform of social assistance. I hope that the government parties will also change their views on this.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e14006	The next speech is by Mrs Bauer. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e14032	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If the liberals have submitted a request for the Constitutional Labour Act, in which they make the demand for the full abolition of the special rights of the Works Council, this is a proof to me that the liberals have never dealt with the problem in the workforce. [[Abg. Meisinger: Is also entitled!]] [[Abg. Meisinger: You just need to read!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gaugg.]] They talk about the workers, but you really do not know what is happening in the workforce, otherwise you would be affected by the Freedom Party about your application itself and would be scared. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's why more and more employees are choosing us!]] This complete abolition of the rights of the works council would not be better for the worker, but only for the employer. Mr Höchtl is not here now, but I would be interested in whether he has spoken about this to the ÖAAB works council. I should like to explain my point of view. From my daily practice, I can say that the individual worker does not want to come into contact with the court. But, ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party, how to implement at a notice of 50 or 100... – No, that's your statement. [[Abg. Blünegger: According to the party book, it's probably with you! That's how you defend it!]] [[Abg. Gaugg: Enough evidence!]] But you cannot tell me how these workers should claim their right. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Silhavy: (in the direction of freedom) Volume alone is not an argument!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I'm now showing up for the Styria, which was only taken first by the Works Council – the Trade Union and the Workers' Chamber – for those involved in the area of trade union textiles, clothing and leather. In the years 1988 to 1996 it was a total amount of 37 676 744 pp. This money would have been lost without a union and a workers' chamber for those affected. If the liberals think that the workers would be decomposed, I can only repeat that they have no idea of the practice, because the participation of the Works Council can prevent serious damage, whether in human or financial terms. Ladies and gentlemen! We are envied by our system abroad. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Where? Who's envying us?]] That is why we will continue to fight social democrats to prevent the rights of workers from being put at risk by the lack of knowledge of the applicants of the FPÖ. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Marizzi: That's not where Mr. Stadler says anything!]] I would like to say the following from the point of view of my works council: Overtime is not avoidable where you produce a product that is associated with long learning times. In today's time it's like this: The order is coming in, and the goods are already to be delivered. However, an overtime survey concluded that the highest proportions of overtime, over 60 percent, are carried out by directors, businessmen, lawyers and economic advisers. For those persons whose income is not low, overtime will not be regarded as vital for survival. Mrs Steibl is not here now, but I would remind you that she said in committee that overtime is essential for each individual. I hope that she did not mean this group, because for me the question arises: What do those workers who have no chance of working at all? Ladies and gentlemen! In my opinion, it would be necessary to reduce overtime especially in those areas where they are proven to be made regularly and where there is no resumption to save on risk costs, such as in the event of illness or in the case of holiday and Christmas money. [[Call to the Freeman: Why does the employee make overtime? - Because he wants to earn something!]] [[Abg. Gaugg: If the ÖGB officials were to abandon the overtime fee, we would already have a lot of jobs!]] – Something else doesn't appeal to you. Since man has a right to work, it must be a duty for all of us, and in particular for you, to divide the existing work between those who need and seek work.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e14215	Mr Böhacker is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e14237	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President Höchtl! I do not think you have noticed, because Mr President, I have explained very precisely why there is still a need for equality between public and private hospitals. Or you didn't understand – that's the only other way. But now at the health certificate fee. The law on the introduction of a health certificate fee is, in addition to the contract regulations, the most absurd law that this House has adopted. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is therefore absurd because the cost of calculating, collecting, managing and controlling this health certificate fee is much more than the revenue from this health certificate fee. The industrial association has calculated: The handling costs 73 S per health certificate – take 50 S. The Chamber of Economic Trustees says: more costs for the administration than the 50 S revenue. In economic terms, this health certificate fee, Mr Todel-President Höchtl, is at best a zero sum game, yes it is even more a destruction of folk property at the expense of workers and at the expense of entrepreneurs. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: I claim that this is not true!]] It should therefore be in the interest of all of us to bear this health certificate without delay. Signals towards the abolition of this health certificate fee are available from all sides, including the ÖVP, also from the SPÖ, from the union, from the Chamber of Labour and so on. But it is still symptomatic for this red-black coalition that you do not let your words follow. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] To help you, my dear colleague Höchtl, a little bit on the jumps, because your memory doesn't seem to be that good anymore, I bring a few quotes: Group of Socialist Trade Unions: "The health certificate fee has always been rejected by the union." ==References== January 1997: "The health certificate fee of 50 S has already been discussed again. Minister for Social Affairs Humans and Economic Chamber Secretary-General Günter Stummvoll declare himself ready for abolition." – That was already in January 1997! I would also like to quote: ==References====External links== January 1997: "Greens and Liberals demand the immediate removal of the health certificate fee." [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: Dear friend! You wanted it retroactively!]] - Listen! I'm still talking about it. And now it's going to be interesting: The Secretary-General of the Günter Stummvoll Chamber of Commerce was asked why he had agreed to this health certificate fee as an employer. ==References====External links== January 1997: "If not with joy, you have finally found yourself with the health certificate fee limited to a year." [[Ironic calls of astonishment in the liberals.]] – He speaks of the health certificate fee limited to a year! Where is the application of this coalition for the abolition of the health certificate fee? [[Abg. Haigermoser: Overturned!]] Where is this request? – Once again, the "ÖAAB-Höchtl" does not know what the "Economie-Bunde-Stummful" promises everything. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This is politics by chaos, dear colleague Höchtl, politics by chaos in the ÖVP! But not only Members, but also representatives of the Federal Government – so that you can hear it too – have decided on this. [[Abg. Marizzi: Why are you yelling like that?]] I quote from the "Salzburger Nachrichten" of 15. February 1997: "Kanzler Viktor Klima und Vice-Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel" – prepared: Red and black! – “Both have had on Tuesday” – watch out! –: [[Abg. Haigermoser: Feurstein should also be careful, because he is one of the wiredrivers!]] "At the end of 1997 the health certificate fee must be terminated." Climate and bowl, chancellors and vice chancellors have said that. Mr. Feurstein! Where is your application for the abolition of the health certificate fee at 31. December 1997? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Do you fall in the back of your chancellor and vice chancellor yourself? [[Abg. Haigermoser: Sure!]] Do you leave your chancellor and vice chancellor in the rain? [[Abg. Haigermoser: Sure! Every day!]] Or are you verbal, ladies and gentlemen? [[Abg. Haigermoser: That too!]] Are you verbal, or do you leave the chancellor and vice chancellor in the rain? And now to withdraw the health certificate fee retroactively. Mr Höchtl! Please be careful! This freedom of movement comes from the 14th century. January 1997. If the Coalition Government had not been sparse in its treatment, then it could have been decided in January to waive this health certificate fee. – The first. And the second: There is no time limit in the application text. A retroactive withdrawal of this health certificate fee is proposed only in the explanatory memorandum. [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: That's enough!]] And to your reassurance, my dear colleague Höchtl: We will certainly make a request for the abolition of the health certificate fee – in the sense of the statements of climate, bowl, stupid, union and workers' chamber. And then we'll force you to reveal!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e14422	Mr Donabauer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e14466	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The suffering pressure of colleagues Mag. The main and Böhacker are given, of course. I understand, gentlemen. They have submitted applications which cannot be approved, because they are simply in line with the explanatory statement. [[Intercession with the liberals.]] - Listen! I'll talk to you soon. Mr Böhacker! You have said here that the health certificate fee is a misconstruction, and you have said here that it is symptomatic for the SPÖ and the ÖVP that they are not ready to make any corrections. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Right!]] However, I must say to you, Mr Commissioner, that it is symptomatic for you and your party that you are constantly nagging and wailing, but have not made any useful proposals to this day. Mr Böhacker! Listen You should: If you are talking about costs here and demand retroactive withdrawal, think about what costs this would cause! I must also tell you that this would not be feasible at all. Secondly, It is you and the ladies and gentlemen of your party who are always talking about more and more personal responsibility, who are also talking about more and more participation. However, with this health certificate fee, which is certainly still extendable and adaptable in its design, we have achieved one thing – you do not understand it, Mr Colleague: [[Abg. Haigermoser: Hallelujah!]] We have achieved that the extent of the accounts of medical services has been substantially limited. As you also know, pensioners and family members, the children, are exempt from this health certificate fee. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] That is why I am telling you that we will not withdraw or suspend the health certificate fee at your command, but we will be very careful to ensure that our health insurance system can continue to be properly financed in the future. [[Abg. Haigermoser: No polemics from the speaker's mouth!]] We will also be very careful to ensure that our own responsibility will continue to be maintained in the future. You also know that we are on our way to the chip card – Mr. Col. is right! – and we will submit new proposals to you soon. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser]] I'm curious what you'll say. Mr Mag. Head! Your proposal has a proper reason, namely the fact that private hospitals are certainly working more cost-effectively. That's not a question. But I think we can also say that the introduction of the LKF system also means that public hospitals have a very great cost development. I can call you public hospitals in Lower Austria, which are already in a positive position this year! I believe that we should also emphasize this. I can also tell you that we have three pots installed in the introduction of the LKF system. You did it: The one pot with the 37 million is the so-called country pot in which the former KRAZAF hospitals are inside. In the second pot is the general accident insurance with the accident hospitals inside. This amount has not yet been fully negotiated. That's clear, too. And the third pot – now it comes! – is set at 900 million. This was negotiated with the stakeholders of the private hospitals. They also agreed. And in three years we will certainly know from the experience gained so far how the next negotiations will be conducted. Let me tell you something: I believe that public hospitals can also be seen to guarantee a comprehensive basic provision, at all times of the day and night, even on weekends and on Sundays and holidays, which we cannot expect from the private hospitals to this extent and cannot demand. In addition, I can remind you that private hospitals are mainly concerned with a very selected clientele and that there is also a risk selection. You don't have to take all the registrations, while the public hospitals have to take every patient and every patient. You should note this correctly here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Chief.]] In addition, you must also remember that substantial funds are included in private insurance to private hospitals. As a result, there is no public funding at all there. I can imagine, however, that you are suffering a certain amount of suffering because you have to say something. But that was not very glorious. We will therefore not agree to your requests – neither one nor the other. They're just not worth it because they're not up to date.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e14555	The next speaker is Mr Blünegger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e14576	High house! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! What Mr Donabauer said now was certainly not very glorious. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Donabauer.]] I didn't see anything good in his speech, but he just defended one position. Defending the position is still for you, but you won't have success with it. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Of course, of the five reports of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs, which are under discussion today, our three requests have been rejected. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Feurstein.]] I would just like to say that, although justified, the legitimate requests of the liberals are still being rejected. During the discussion of this item on the agenda, Mr Feurstein made it clear today that you will continue to support the position of public hospitals and that the private will simply leave them to the left. That's what we heard today. Mr Hoof has explained this correctly. Mr Höchtl said that it would be a good thing if the Works Council did not have a right of opposition immediately in case of a termination. He said that today, but you want to continue to assert this right. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: I said that too!]] The Socialists have also explained, among other things, that they want to secure their positions there, of course, so that their constituencies, who represent them there, remain secure. Why do we want the liberals not to play a dominant role in the termination of the works council's rights? – We also want to protect the individual. There are enough examples of the fact that the individual is not protected only because the Works Council has objected. And we want to change that. We want to strengthen the freedom of the individual in the workplace. And that is certainly also a rewarding goal and not a deterioration. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] Because what's going to happen now? What's happened so far? – The College of Works has decided that an appeal may be filed at a notice of termination. [[Abg. Fox: That's unlikely! He doesn't like it all the time!]] - I don't disagree. I'm a works councilman myself, I know what I'm talking about. I'm at the base of what you've been away from, because you're not working on the base anymore. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Call the SPÖ:Aha!]] It's just like I'm saying, The freedom of the individual worker must not be dependent on a collegiate works council who determines whether or not a person is allowed to stay in the holding. We liberals want the worker to decide for himself whether to go to the labour court and challenge the termination or not. These are our ideas. Of course, a speaking time of three minutes does not offer many possibilities to expand one or another here, but the following is clear: The Greens' request to convert overtime into jobs, which is also being debated today, is an old hat. We know that there are already other ideas and possibilities in flexibilization. Unfortunately, my speaking time is over. I do not want to take away the speaking time from my colleagues, but we imagine other possibilities in terms of flexibilization and overtime. We shall also make the appropriate proposals. In this sense, we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e14673	Mrs Pittermann is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e14694	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I would first of all like to limit myself to the opposition requests concerning amendments to the ASVG. All those who work in health care know that different benefits are provided by the non-public and non-profit institutions. It would lead to a further cost increase of non-profit hospitals, if anyone wishes to be admitted anywhere, as requested in application 264/A. A stronger selection of risks, i.e. the expensive patients would remain public, would result in cost explosion in the stationary area of public hospitals. Mr President, I should like to thank you It is precisely because we reject a two-class medicine that we must also reject your request. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Especially in the area of Vienna, where there are many private hospitals in the immediate vicinity of the AKH, these live on the infrastructure of the non-profit. Patients with so-called cheap diseases are private. However, if the disease takes a costly or dangerous course, the patients are extremely fast in the AKH. Non-profit hospitals are, of course, working with losses, because they only work without losses in social and health care, possibly even with profits, if on the one hand they require high prices from customers, on the other hand they offer low benefits and saves on the number and wage levels of the employees. Only: Then they are no longer social benefits. There is enough work preparation in medicine and care, yet many find no employment. And I would like to say to all of you, who almost always think of the teachers and lawyers in academic unemployment, that there are more than a thousand self-employed doctors, without any chance of working, and thousands still in front of the gym, also without a chance of training. The patients complain that the grant will be reduced, but they want to maximize private profits at the expense of the general public. As unforgivable as I was about the health certificate fee – I would prefer a minimum contribution fee for all those involved – it is polemic to claim that it is burdening the extramural area. Transfers apply to hospital hospitals as well as to established specialists. It is up to the practical doctors where they transfer their patients. The administrative burden for service providers will only be increased if, as was the case earlier, health certificates are issued to all employees and their families at the first quarter of each quarter, which is unacceptable. However, only one specialist and one practical doctor-sickness per quarter must be issued on the fixed health certificates. The calculation of 50 S is therefore not an additional burden. Some practical doctors complain of a reduction in the number of health certificates issued. Is that not due, however, to the fact that medical check-ups were sometimes paid and billed without return? Practical doctors who never did that told me they had suffered no loss. I don't put in the chip card the expectations that many will meet. For the doctors, it is associated with massive costs without any benefit. A short while longer than two other opposition requests: For us Social Democrats, one of the most important fundamental rights is that people - hit by fate - can fight their livelihood without being dependent on alms. A social state is responsible for ensuring the basic needs. Our Lady Federal Minister will start talks with the countries about the further development of social assistance, because it must not depend in Austria on the place of residence whether one can live in a decent manner. We must do everything we can to ensure that those who have hit fate are not humiliated and excluded from benefits. Last time for overtime reduction: As requested in the amendment, it is necessary to examine how the flexibility of working hours affects overtime benefits, and to note this in the 1997 Social Report. Personally, I am interested in whether the Hospital Employment Act, as expected, induced an increase in the number of posts, or whether it was possible to reduce the impact of the Working Time Act on the hospital holders by increasing the burden of the staff allocated to the service and by being willing to do so. I am in favour of distributing the work to as many people as possible, but I reject it if the loss of overtime does not result in jobs being lost, but rather the burden on workers without overtime costs is equally strong or more severe. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] We all – government like opposition – are required to do everything possible to maintain and expand our exemplary social system. Political change and polemics must be avoided. They harm people in our country. We Social Democrats support workers' protection and a comprehensive social system. We will certainly never allow a reduction in social standards, a disassembly of our social security system.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e14774	Mr Gaugg is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e14795	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Bauer's speech was unsurpassed to adventure. Your patent recipe is: The FPÖ delegates have no idea, while the SPÖ has eaten the wisdom with the big spoon. - That's the first point. [[Abg. Koppler: That's right! The FPÖ really has no idea!]] That is why it is likely that 50 000 people per year leave the Austrian Trade Union Confederation, which is why this SPÖ loses every election, that is why we have 200 000 jobseekers in this Republic, that is why we have 9 000 job seekers, and because of this failing social policy, we have 1 million people living at the poverty line. [[Complaints with the liberals]] [[ongoing calls to the SPÖ]] That is the reality, that is the result of your socialist policy! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Koppler: Where is there a better one? Where's a zero-son round?]] Mrs Pittermann said in her statement: We will not allow a reduction in social benefits. – Yes, what to do You've been in the last two, three years? Except for the reduction of social benefits, non-salt increases, zero-sun rounds and the like, you can't imagine anything at all. That is your understanding of social policy! The fact that 15 percent of the Austrian population live on the poverty line today is the result of your policy! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If, in opposition parties' requests, the strengthening of individual rights, the strengthening of the individual, of course hurts you, that is clear! That's why you're hurt because you're afraid of losing power. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Koppler: Where is a zero son round?]] Colleague Koppler is an example of this: a real monument to the past. There was a state-owned company with 70,000 employees, where he was the works councillor. – Today, not much remains of the emperor, but he is still sitting in Parliament with service car and chauffeur. [[Call at SPÖ: How much have you achieved for employees, Mr Gaugg?]] And that's your policy! I'd just recommend you, dear lady,... [[Prolonged calls to the SPÖ: How much have you achieved for the workers, Mr Gaugg?]] – I have such a short speaking time, don’t always interrupt! What would you like to know? – With the officials and everywhere else too! [[Abg. Koppler: Gaugg, where is a zero son round? Where?- Oh, my God!]] You just take the money away from the people, that's a fact. The fact is that everything connected with individual rights creates the opposition of the SPÖ, which seems to be so. But I would strongly recommend: Give your heart one shot and vote Once again to the reasonable requests made by the opposition parties in this House! This would prove to be a social policy measure!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e14935	Mr Oellinger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. – Second speech, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e14965	Mr President. High house! Since the Minister is here now, I am delighted to present the motion for a resolution in connection with the reform of the pension system. This is: [[Quoted print version removed]] I have every comment on this because of the speaking time. I believe that this is a useful and important issue, and that is why, before deciding on a pension reform, we also want these foundations to be included. This also applies to the second request we are calling for: [[Quoted print version removed]] The same applies to this resolution or resolution as before: We believe that a pension reform in this country is only useful if we take the time to discuss it, and not in budgetary terms, we are trying to attract it somewhere, but rather to tackle a fundamental reform involving all important issues.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e15040	The two just-readed motions for resolutions have been properly put in place, are supported accordingly and are therefore under negotiation. However, the list of speakers is exhausted. That concludes the debate. We are entering the voting procedure because a final word by the rapporteurs does not take place. I therefore ask the honourable Members to take their place. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall come to the vote on the request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 877 of the supplements. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This sign is made by the majority. The application is therefore accepted. In this connection, we shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Oellinger and Mr Comrades on the consideration of the resolution of the Federal Chamber of Labour of 22 October. ==References====External links== In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done by the minority. The request is therefore rejected. We are now voting on a further motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Oellinger and Mr Comrades on the consideration of the White Paper of the Federal Ministry for Women's Affairs of September 1997 on pension reform. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is only done by the minority. The request is therefore rejected. We now come to the vote on the request from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 878 of the supplements. In the event of your consent, I would ask you to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. The request was accepted. We shall also vote on the request from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 879 of the supplements. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is also done by the majority. The request was accepted. We shall also vote on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report 880 of the Supplements. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. The request was accepted. (E 88.) Finally, we shall vote on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report 881. In the event of your consent, I ask you for a sign to be given. – This is accepted with a single vote. (E 89.) 7. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (650 of the Supplements): Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Kingdom of Norway on social security (874 of the Supplements) 8. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (768 of the Supplements): Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Croatia on social security (875 of the Supplements) 9. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (843 of the Supplements): Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Chile on social security (876 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e15206	We now come to points 7 to 9 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker was Mr Oellinger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e15233	Thank you, Mr President. I will not need the 5 minutes because, essentially, it is only a matter of clarifying, given these agreements, that we are refusing to accept the agreement with the Republic of Croatia for a very specific reason: It is about the fact that the agreement with the Republic of Croatia negotiated those parts which concern family allowances and which have been put to the pressure of the Republic of Austria. The Republic of Austria is still sparse in this question. In fact, it is not a matter of – we have already discussed this in another place – with the Minister of Finance – that those who work here in that country and actually enjoy the same rights as everyone – at least tax law – not only deletes the family allowance, but also the maintenance allowance for their children living abroad, who are not recognised or not granted. In the case of this agreement, we consider the Republic of Austria not only due to its commitment to the international treaties, but above all with regard to this tax-law refusal of the maintenance amount, which even the Minister of Finance said in the debate at that time, it is a problem that on the one hand, the family allowance is recognized, because their children are constantly staying abroad, while on the other hand the maintenance allowance is not granted because their children are not permanently residing abroad. The Republic of Austria has to adopt a clearer position than before, and we will therefore refuse to accept this agreement with the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e15271	Mrs Fuchs is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e15293	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! In 1973, as a result of the takeover of power in Chile by the military and the beginning of the Pinochet dictatorship, many Chileans had to leave their home as politically persecuted. Many found their way to Austria and were warmly and gladly welcomed here, because the then political climate enabled this. These were still good old times, if I may say so; today it would certainly be different, I would like to say in the light of today's discussion. At that time, many Austrians supported the struggle for the recovery of democracy in Chile. Many friendly relations and ties arose between the Austrian people and the Chilean people at the time. I too have many friends of Chilean origin who had to flee Chile at that time. In this situation, too, the Austrian-Chileic friendship society, whose President I am, has been established, therefore, there are numerous contacts, and therefore I am particularly concerned about this agreement. Ladies and gentlemen! I am very pleased that this agreement has come about because it will ensure social security for people who have acquired insurance periods in Austria and Chile. These people, as has been said, are politically persecuted today in Austria, fully integrated live Chileans, who can never forget the terrible circumstances that have led to their emigration. We help them with this agreement, but we also help all the Austrians who live in Chile, and these are more than 1,000 people. The objective of this Agreement, through the equal treatment of the two-sided nationals, can only be underlined by calculating insurance periods for the acquisition of pension rights in the context of comprehensive protection in the field of pension insurance. There are similar agreements with other countries, such as Canada and the USA. Because the social security of people is an extremely important concern for us Social Democrats, we also want to appreciate the steps that lead to this goal. This agreement is such a step, a very big step. I would like to say quite clearly that through its exiles, Austria received many new cultural impulses and the assurance that international solidarity could also contribute to the strengthening and development of democracy in the world to its own social security. Agreements such as the one to be concluded today show this solidarity and mutual support clearly and are therefore absolutely in favour. High house! I see the agreement between the Republics of Chile and Austria as an important contribution to international understanding, against increasing xenophobia, racism and intolerance, and therefore my group will join this agreement.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e15338	Mrs Dr. Moser is also speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e15359	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The agreements in 768, 843 and 650 of the Social Security Supplements present to us have a legislative and legislative nature. They do not contain any constitutional or constitutional provisions. These agreements are international social legislation, which regulates social security, i.e. health insurance, pension insurance and the unemployment insurance of persons and their family members who have spent their working lives in Austria and another country. The agreement Austria – Croatia is indeed not quite unproblematic. A new adoption of this Agreement was necessary since, in the course of consolidation measures for the State budget in 1995, the first consideration was to adapt the family allowance for children living abroad to the purchasing power of schilling in the country concerned. So as long as the Austrian government had not yet come to know about savings measures, these children got abundant. However, then these flows of money fell victim to the necessary savings measures. I would like to say that, for Austrian children living abroad, there was never the opportunity to benefit from family aid. Finally, the order for family aid was not adapted to the purchasing power, but, like the Austrian children, it was no longer paid to children living in Croatia for family aid, resulting in a savings of 44 million schilling for the Austrian state. However, in the fields of health insurance, accident insurance, pension insurance and unemployment insurance, the previous provisions are adopted unchanged. All in all, the implementation of the new agreement will therefore not result in an increase in staff costs or a financial additional burden in relation to the legal situation prior to the termination of the previous agreement. At the time of the vote in the Committee on Social Affairs, it was decided by a majority to recommend that the House approve the conclusion of the Convention. To the Austrian agreement – Chile, I can fully endorse Mrs Fuchs' comments. On the Austrian-Norway Agreement, it should be noted that the aim of the present agreement is to achieve a legal harmonization in relation to Norway. It also extends bilateral relations to third-country nationals to the necessary extent and contains the necessary rules in the sub-areas with regard to which EC law allows for a margin of flexibility. ==References== In January 1994, relations between Austria and Norway in the field of social security are governed by the EEC regulations on this subject. These are the regulations on migrant workers, and the present social agreement with Norway has been further developed in addition to the EEC Regulation, in particular with regard to groups of persons not covered, such as the groups of persons who are unemployed, since they are not covered by the migrant worker regulation. However, the Migrant Workers' Regulation is still applicable. If the content of the Agreement is more favourable than the Regulation, it shall enter into force instead of the Regulation. In the Committee's vote, it was unanimously decided to recommend that the House approve the conclusion of the Convention. Our party will agree to these templates.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e15408	Mr Gaugg has also been mentioned on the floor. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e15429	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The Members of this House will vote in favour of these requests. However, we would like to point out to the Government template concerning the agreement with the Republic of Croatia that any abuse should be stopped. That is why I am saying this because recently, in Carinthia, there have been cases where unemployment benefits have been collected by the labour market service, but the person concerned has been employed in Slovenia or Croatia. We would therefore be pleased if, in the event of unemployment benefit from Austrian taxpayers, a corresponding confirmation would have to be given to the local foreign community, confirming that the person concerned is not employed. The second point concerns any illness and accidents occurring during a holiday stay in these countries. Unfortunately, there have already been maladministrations in this context. We propose a stronger control and recasting by local doctors, as is quite the custom of our workers who go into the sick. Perhaps a doctor's willingness to be gracious if it doesn't cost the state, but it's a little bigger. Our request is therefore to introduce increased control in these two things – the abuse of unemployment benefit and the abuse of health care facilities.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e15459	No one has been reported here in the word. That concludes the debate. A final word of the rapporteurs is not wanted. We are entering the voting procedure. I would ask you to take the seats. We shall proceed to the vote. I shall vote separately on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we are voting on the request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to approve the conclusion of the State Treaty in 650 of the Supplements. If you want to do this, I would ask for a sign of it. – This is done with a light of votes. The request was accepted. We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to approve the conclusion of the State Treaty in 768 of the Supplements. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done by the majority. Accepted. Finally, we come to the vote on the request from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to approve the conclusion of the State Treaty in 843 of the Supplements. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done unanimously. Accepted. 10. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (840 of the Supplements): Co-operative Revision Change of Law 1997 – GenRevrÄG 1997 (872 of Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e15536	We're on our way to the 10th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Schreiner. Would you like a voluntary time limit? - 5 minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e15563	Mr President. Federal Minister for Justice! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We are dealing today with a government template that the opposition parties have been trying to make ready for the plenary by means of a resolution since 1990, namely the overall reform of the cooperative sector and thus the cooperative revision. Ladies and gentlemen! Today's government template only redefines the cooperative revision, redefines it, introduces new provisions. However, if one looks at the whole cooperative sector and sees that the cooperative revision is based on a German law of 1903 and the cooperative law on one from 1873, one realizes that these two materials are far overdue. But I mean, if we deal with the cooperative revision law first and not with the basic matter, then we'll pick up the horse from behind. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Barmüller: This is the next item on the agenda!]] This is economic policy, I believe, not good for this country, because we need a functioning cooperative system, and we need a well-functioning revision – that has shown the "consumer" argument – as well. Federal Minister! We have discussed this matter very widely and for a very long time in the Committee. It seems to me that you have kneeled before the so-called Raiffeisen-Lobby in this government template. For example, in the Committee on Justice, the negotiators of the ÖVP Group were not someone who is resident in the judicial matter or who is very often seen in the judicial committee: Mr Schwarzenberger was the one who led the debate in the Committee on Justice with a speech that was a purely defence of the position that the cooperative revision should be designed and designed in such a way that nothing of this Raiffeisen-Lobby would happen. [[Abg. Wormitzer: He knows himself! Good man!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Judge Schwarzenberger!]] Federal Minister! It is remarkable, for example, that your first drafts made it possible for the mixed association to be deleted. The mixed association – in order to explain this – is an association that includes revision, goods and banking, and it can happen that someone as owner of the revision controls his competitors and tells him what he has to do. That's impossible in itself. In a normal stock company, independent auditors, accountants are assigned to examine a stock company, a GmbH. They are completely independent, they have nothing to do with the operating business. They have no interest in ruling in it either. It has been mentioned in the Committee that a revisor in Carinthia has examined a cooperative in such a way that more or less of the entire board has become a little shy and a few months later has become the managing director of this revisor. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It's actually a joke when you're talking about a cooperative revision. We believe that a cooperative revision should act in the service of primary cooperatives, in the service of the owners. These ownership rights must be strengthened – in the service of customers, in the service of suppliers, in the service of creditor security. But the cooperative revision must not be an instrument to channel the interests of the entire Raiffeisen organisation in such a way that it is adapted. That can't be a reasonable revision. Unfortunately, this government template makes a kneefall in front of the Raiffeisen organisation. I miss a lot of time to do this to you. All in all, however, this government proposal alone must be rejected because we first need to reform the cooperative law as a whole before we reform a cooperative review. That is why we shall be free to reject this government proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e15639	Mr Dr. Jarolim has also been reported on the floor. 5 minutes of time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e15661	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Schreiner, try to see this government template more differentiated. They have rightly said that there have been efforts for six years to revise the law of cooperatives, and unfortunately for six years God has not been a corresponding success. I therefore think it is legitimate to have at least taken out the right to review and to try to find a solution here. And I think this solution is basically a good solution. In advance, the question of the mixed associations arises: It is indeed true that the law in itself no longer allows the mixed association, but it is the final and transitional provisions in particular of § 2 Art. 5 provided the opportunity to continue to run mixed associations, i.e., I quote, provided that this does not affect the perception or tasks of the revision. I personally think it would have been more consistent not to create this transitional arrangement. On the other hand, I have to say: If we take this into account and take into account exactly how the revision organisations behave, then a certain correlation has been made to the fact that abuses which Mr Schreiner spoke about and which are possible, of course, are not at all disputed. In principle, it is to be said: The aim was to harmonize with company law, the aim was to strengthen the revision. This has been achieved in principle by the fact that it is now possible for the revisor by means of an enhanced instrument itself to ensure that the shortcomings identified in the revision report are effectively offset. If they are not removed, an extraordinary General Assembly may be convened by the Court of First Instance – the Court of First Instance – to report on the shortcomings and eliminate them, with the Court of First Instance setting up the agenda as well as the chairman holding this General Assembly. I think that if one considers the core matter itself, it has been a great success to strengthen the revision – that was the stated objective – and there has certainly been some adaptation to company law in the area of cooperative law, so that more attention can now be paid to proper management. I therefore believe that consent to this law is a good measure and that it will bring about a further development of cooperative law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e15706	The next speech is by Mr Mag. Barmüller before. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e15727	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Co-operative revision law – the length of this title is, I believe, indirectly proportional to the content or the changes that will take place in this matter. It has also become quite clear in the Committee's discussion: It is a law of political feasibility, because – as honourable Member Schreiner has already mentioned this – it was actually planned, also planned by the Ministry of Justice, to further reorganise and codify this area, but it was simply not possible to carry out this overall project under political pressure. The Federal Minister for Justice has therefore resorted to reorientating at least the field of revision, but also only as far as it is concerned. If you look at the first draft, which has been debated and sent for consideration, you will find that in the future no more mixed associations should be possible, because it seems to have been meant for material reasons: There are difficulties where revision and also direct active activity takes place under one roof, there are obstacles to the objectivity of control. Therefore, from the outset, it was no longer possible to permit the existence of any mixed association. That's changed. In the future, only the re-establishment of such mixed associations will not be possible. This has a special background, which has also been shown in the discussion, because it is true that, although the House of Schwarzenberger has held the discussion for his group, it is not in the first round. When it came to making a first assessment, he abstained because it was obvious that the influence of the Raiffeisen area was very large. It is also the only area that still has mixed associations, and unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, in the discussion in the Committee on Justice and Home Affairs, it was not to be found out exactly why this path has now been taken, why we do not allow a re-establishment of mixed associations to take place in the light of the fact that there could be any disturbances to control, but why Raiffeisen is granted this privilege to continue to be able to operate mixed associations, even if this is at the expense of control. This is something that the Liberals do not accept. We believe that if there are material reasons to be against mixed associations, they must also concern those associations which already exist today, in particular because within these associations the active area and the revision area are already separate in their own departments. That means that it would not have been an unreasonable extra effort to really divide it. But that's not what happened. In this respect, it is a very Austrian law: not consistent, but determined by the actual political feasibility. Ladies and gentlemen! In addition to this matter, however, I would also like to describe the situation in the Committee on Justice that Mrs Fekter, with her chairmanship, is increasingly a real burden of deliberation in the Committee on Justice, because the formal resolution, for example, when it comes to speaking, when it comes to the management of the list of speakers, is being handled by Mrs Fekter – I can say so because you are here, Madame Deputies – in a way that is absolutely unusual in other committees and, at least, should also be in the Committee on Justice. It is not a question of a chairman, regardless of whether he is included in the list of speakers or not, speaking in terms of content, then replicating to Members, if she considers it appropriate, and simply not keeping to the formal procedure. The Committee on Justice has always been a committee in which very factual deliberations have been possible, and this has been the case since the Presidency was chaired by Mrs Fekter. You think back to the times of Graff and wish him again in this position. [[A Member's condolences to the SPÖ.]] - Yes, you're glad. In view of this, it is noted that this type of Presidency is something that is very, very detrimental to the Committee on Justice and the climate of advice there. I therefore say this, ladies and gentlemen, because in the future it will no longer be the case that the Committee on Justice can be an area of factual consultation if Mrs Fekter in her presidency does not consider that she should have a somewhat disproportionate position in this regard too. All in all, once again: We will reject this matter as too little. We therefore reject it, because it is not possible to deal with the mixed associations in a matter of fact, but to grant a privilege to the Raiffeisen sector, which is not granted to others. We will not take note of this from the liberal side. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e15782	Mrs Fekter is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 10 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e15803	Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I understand Mr Barmüller's displeasure. It was true that the session was already adjourned when he spoke, and I did not reopen the session in order to allow him to speak, but allowed his speech only after the interruption and reopening. That upset him. I'm sorry. I'll take care of it in the future. That I have entered the list of speakers, Mr Barmüller, is right. However, I had a very long list of speakers and I was only speaking in the second third of the speakers as a speaker. I believe that this is also the responsibility of a committee chairman. Now, in fact, to the novel that we are going to decide today. In order to do this, it is necessary to know in advance that cooperatives have a very clear set of principles and pursue a specific purpose. The principles of self-determination, self-management and self-responsibilities and the purpose of cooperatives, namely the promotion of members, must be considered in advance when talking about the revision. The revision is the pillar to respect these principles and must ensure the purpose of promoting members. The revision is to be seen as a permanent review by the respective revision body, and the revision, Mr Barmüller, also guarantees the pursuit of the purpose of control by an independent auditor; regardless of why it is free of any direction and protection from announcement. You need to know the historical roots. The revision was always – and still is – a self-protection concept for the interests of the members. The current legal situation regarding the revision has been scattered over many laws, therefore a uniform regulation is of course desirable. Not the lack of legal provisions, however, was the problem of the revision, but the problem was that the shortcomings identified cannot be consistently implemented. For example, the threatening pleite of the "consumer" was very probably recognizable from the revision reports of the previous years. Unfortunately, it was not responded accordingly. [[Abg. Auer: Ten years before!]] The aim of this amendment is therefore to create measures and instruments by law in order to address such identified shortcomings. These measures include: better enforceability of the revision of identified defects through publicity in the company's book, advertisements in court, appointment of an extraordinary general meeting by the revisor through the court or also the validity of the company's reorganisation law. It is also included in this novel – and this seems to me to be very important – for cooperatives in the Commercial Code with the corresponding accounting rules applicable to capital companies, and it is also normized in accordance with EU standards on the level of qualification of auditors. The scope of the audit and the responsibility of the Revisor and the Revision Association as well as disclosure obligations have been laid down, and, of course, the provisions on publications and member information have also been improved. In order to remedy the shortcomings in due course in time, forced penalties are provided for. The Group Accounting Act is also new to this. The fact that the law has standardized the obligation of association has led to criticism and debate. Many have wished for free auditors and no longer cooperative revision associations, but then the formation of cooperatives would no longer have differed from the other corporations and would have been estranged from their historical purpose. That is to say, not only the Raiffeisen sector, Mr Barmüller, but the entire cooperative housing sector has clearly expressed itself very early in its examination of the association. Therefore, the obligation of association has been further standardised. Proven revision facilities have not been smashed. That, Mr Barmüller, is the answer to your question why mixed associations that already exist have been maintained. Things that have proved to be good, with which all members are satisfied, should not be broken down by law. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: But in the first draft this was planned!]] In the draft, theorists have dealt with this matter, in the review practitioners have then given their opinion, and precisely as regards the mixed associations, have come from the smaller federal states, from the smaller cooperatives the wishes towards synergies. In practice, as mixed associations bring savings by the joint use of various organisational and administrative bodies, it is desirable to maintain the mixed associations. Otherwise, the revision for smaller cooperatives – especially for Sennco-operatives in Vorarlberg – would have been far too expensive. And I am expressing my support for the fact that good practice is not to be deliberately broken down by law. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is important for the independence of the control that the carrier of the revision, the principal responsible and the agents of the revisor is not the association. It has been developed in accordance with EU standards with university maturity and, above all, we have better regulations for the enforcement of the shortcomings identified. Of course, in advance there have been a variety of wishes regarding this revision novel, which in part were diametrically separated. Also from the Raiffeisenverband itself, of course, the banking sector, the goods sector, the primary banks against the Landesbanken or central banks have for the time being applied for different wishes to this novel. However, it was possible – and you are right – to provide for a uniform regime with respect to the feasibility. This uniform regulation has brought in the critical points of the Association revision, the mixed associations or also the revision by the Chamber of Agriculture in Lower Austria, where the revision is delegated, and has been laid down by law. Science – I admit – was in some respects different from the practitioners. However, the legislator should not break down or hinder successful economic operators by rules. We therefore joined the practitioners' arguments at the novelle, and the theorists could not prevail everywhere.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e15862	Mr Magistrate has the power to make an actual correction. Barmüller. Please, honourable Member. The rules are known to you. 2 minutes speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e15886	Mrs Fekter! You said that I had spoken in terms of content and would therefore not have been willing to take note of the fact that you had interrupted the sitting. It is true, rather, that you have announced that you are interrupting the sitting because of a change from the budget room to the side room that we had to carry out, because we only had the room available until a certain date, but that the content discussion had not ended at all. You did not allow me to speak to the Rules of Procedure, which resulted in you, although we had to switch from one room to another, then the Committee's deliberations interrupted to half an hour, because the coalition negotiated and formulated amendments at that time. At least the Liberals had the opportunity to get into the debate before, because then you simply put these requests to the vote. And that was the real problem behind it! This change from the budget room to the side hall, for which you interrupted the sitting for half an hour and no longer allowed for speaking to the Rules of Procedure, has, in fact, been used to make further changes to the novel, without the opposition or at least the liberals being able to speak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e15928	The next speech is by Mr. Dr. Michalek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e15949	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The current government proposal on the reorganisation of the cooperative revision is a comprehensive modernisation of an important part of Austrian cooperative law. In the revision law in particular, the legal fragmentation to be regretted in the applicable cooperative law is obvious. Inconsistencies resulting from legal transfers as well as complicated and inconsistency rules make it difficult to access cooperative law. In addition, cooperative law remains in several respects behind the standards of the Trade Code Finalisation Review and does not provide sufficient possibilities for the prosecution of audits, i.e. the possibility of pressing on the removal of defects identified during the revision. It has also been argued that the extended accounting rules of the Commercial Code for cooperatives applicable to capital companies do not apply. In view of these considerations, but also in the context of the great insolvency that we have already mentioned in recent years, we have preferred the legislative work on cooperative accounting and revision within the framework of the approach we have pursued to an overall reform of cooperative law. As with any comprehensive substantive legal adjustment, the Federal Ministry of Justice also had to find a proper balance here between the opposite interests, which are also apparent in the opinions of the review process – here those who, in their opinion, want to hold on to the well-known old people, where those who are not sufficiently far off in the modernisation process, find themselves in a position to do so. The government template has therefore not made itself a task – and did not want to do so – to eliminate the structures of the current right of revision in a revolutionary act, but we probably wanted to improve the right of cooperative revision throughout, with no one in front of us kneeling. On the contrary! On very important questions, we have not complied with the wishes of the revision organisations. For example, the relative obligation of association was found as an essential element of the current revision system and was basically incorporated into the new scheme. However, by expressly granting a right to be included in and remain in a revision association under certain conditions, through clear criteria and a simple procedure for the exemption from the obligation of association and by concentrating the responsibilities for these procedures, the establishment of the cooperative is substantially facilitated and occasionally avoided any disadvantages of the existing system for the future. As for the joint revision organisations, they are no longer provided for in future permanent law, so that new mixed associations can no longer form. It is true, however, that, in view of the outcome of the review procedure and from political-pragmatic considerations, we have reduced the unbundling of existing mixed associations, provided for in the draft review, to the extent that this does not affect the performance of the tasks of the auditors. In view of the various accusations that the Government's proposal would give the so-called 'joint leaders' greater power in the pursuit of the examination, I would point out that the sanctions provided for by this proposal for the failure of the cooperative under review aim only to give the partners or creditors concerned the means to take appropriate measures. On the other hand, the draft does not provide for the possibility of imposing or initiating sanctions, such as, at their request by the Court of First Instance, a fine or any other measure against an "unexhaustible" primary cooperative in its management. Therefore, contrary to the criticism expressed, I do not see in the presentation the alleged deterioration. On the contrary. It makes significant progress and improves the current legal situation. With the inclusion of cooperatives in the extended accounting provisions of the Commercial Code for Capital Companies, with the clear and understandable regulation of the obligation of association, the new qualification requirements for the auditors, the definition of statutory qualification, partiality and selection criteria for auditors, with the strengthening of the independence of the auditors, with the increase in the efficiency of the revision, in particular in the follow-up of audits, with the clarification of the powers in the cooperative revision system and, finally, also with the suspension of the revision associations under the supervision of the Federal Ministry of Justice, so that this can make it possible to provide the cooperatives with a modern, truly tangible instrument for their control. A first, but I think, step in the overall reform of cooperative law is being taken by the cooperative revision law. The previously predominantly rigid front against changes in the current legal situation has been broken down. There is a serious discussion on all relevant issues. Much has already been in motion. There is therefore a fundamental willingness of the parties concerned to make an overall reform. Not only do I doubt the need for cooperatives as an independent form of society. Especially in a global economic environment characterized by an increasing globalisation of economic relations, the internationalisation of markets and, at all events, of increased competition and rationalisation pressure, the idea of Community self-help of economic operators against overpowered competition and power imbalances could only become quite significant. The existing principles of cooperatives – the principle of free entry, the distribution of democratic voting rights, the limited interest rate of the deposit, the orientation of the activities of the respective members, the use of the surplus for the development of cooperatives and for common services, the principles of self-help, self-determination and self-responsibilities and the principle of the priority of the person towards capital – continue to have importance for the economic structure of Austria, characterised by small and medium-sized enterprises. The reform of Austrian cooperative law will also have to be the task of maintaining and improving the necessary framework conditions for a successful economy in an increasingly economic environment. The aim of the cooperative reform is therefore to adapt this form of society to the current needs and make it even more attractive for the future. To this end, an agreement between cooperative law and other company law could make a significant contribution, however, by drawing up and taking into account the characteristics distinguishing the cooperative from other forms of company and their distinctive characteristics, the legalisation of private-sectoral structures, such as the cooperative association so important in practice, as well as the substantive and linguistic modernisation of cooperative law. As an excellent basis for the overall reform of the cooperative law, a draft cooperative law is available to us through my initiative within the framework of the Ludwig-Boltzmann Institute for Legal Prevention and Documentaries, which is also the subject of a survey organised by the Federal Ministry of Justice. January of this year was in Salzburg, where this draft was generally approved of a high standard. Although a major and comprehensive reform project, such as a cooperative reform, needs to be approved a certain time frame for technical discussion and for political opinion-making, I believe, on the basis of the experience and discussions so far, that the work can be carried out quickly on the basis of constructive cooperation between all the parties involved and can be completed during this legislative period. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e16034	Thank you very much, Minister of State. The next speech is by Mrs Mag. Stoisits. Please, ladies and gentlemen. 8 minutes is still available to your club.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e16059	Dobar ve#er! Mr. Federal Minister! Mr President. In principle, we welcome the reform of the co-operative revision law, because it brings about a adjustment and modernisation, a summary of legal sources. However, I do not hide, Minister of State, that there are solutions on some points – and that has already been criticized – which I do not like with which I am dissatisfied. I say it only in terms of the two minutes' speaking time: no immediate resolution of the mixed associations, insufficient data protection, also insufficient criteria for the qualification of auditors; this could lead to problems. These are our criticisms. As far as climate change, operation and work in the Committee on Justice are concerned, I now need 15 minutes to describe to the ladies and gentlemen how much dissatisfaction has been with the procedure, how this law has come into the committee and is now being dealt with here in plenary. I cannot spare Mrs Fekter's criticism. I am very amazed and surprised by the change of climate and the process; I was used to other things for years. This is really very important now and very noble and very reticently formulated. How little the will of the two coalition parties to deal fully with the cooperative law is shown by the fact that a reasonable request from the Free Party – there is something like that in this matter – did not find the agreement which I very much regret. We will therefore reject the Committee's report, but we will vote in favour of the law at third reading, albeit with reservations.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e16097	Mr Schwarzenberger went on to say that he was speaking. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e16118	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Under the provisions of the cooperative law, all cooperatives must, in principle, belong to the relevant and locally competent review association as a member. The revision does not enshrine the administrative bodies of the cooperative, the legal and the constitutional responsibility, nor does it involve the self-management of the cooperative, but rather has a consultative function, a legal guarantee function. The revision can only show deficiencies. These shortcomings must be offset by the Board of Directors or the Supervisory Board of the cooperative company itself. The revision of a cooperative differs in so far as the economic fidelity of the capital companies is examined not only by the legality, but also by the effectiveness and economy. [[Abg. May. Schreiner: That's not true!]] It's a difference: A capital company aims to maximize profits. The aim of a cooperative is, as it were, to promote the member or his holding. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: That's not true, Mr. Schwarzenberger!]] And if, especially in the Committee, the mixed associations have been so criticized, I would like to point out – the example of which was given in the committee of Members of Parliament, but also in the previous part of the House – that it is not possible, in itself, that the revisor is, as it were, a manager of his office and that the revision itself is, so to speak, a managing director. We asked ourselves: There has been a case in Carinthia where the revision has found that the cooperative is a reorganisation case, with the creditors requiring banks to further grant the loans to a rehabilitating manager. However, it must be said that by the responsible bodies of this cooperative, there are five declared FPÖ officials and that the new managing director is then used in just one vote against. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Now it's coming!]] The old managing director, who caused this reorganisation case, had a "bomben" management contract, with a net monthly compensation, which the national councillors could only dream of. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: How much?]] For this reason, this cooperative could not function in this form. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: How much does he get?]] I'm going to tell you a lot about how much this managing director got net. He also received a high discharge when the service relationship had to be settled. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: 78,000 S!]] There are currently two mixed associations in Carinthia, one from the Raiffeisen Association of Carinthia, and the Slovenian cooperatives also have their own revision association. It must be said that the cooperatives are free to set up their own cooperatives, a review association, if they do not agree with the Landesrevisionsverband. Why this has not happened, I can only explain to myself that the primary cooperatives in Carinthia probably have no need in this area. There are also such mixed associations in Vorarlberg, Salzburg and Burgenland. In the larger Länder there are own revision associations. The basic objectives of the reform of the cooperative law have already been listed in part by Mrs Fekter: to strengthen the independence of the revision, the re-regulation of the audit tracking, the clarification of the costs of the revision, the qualification and approval as a revisor and the recognition as a revision body. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! A Board of Directors of a cooperative may, if it does not agree with the result delivered by the revisor, go to court, and then the judge shall decide on the responsible revisor in this field. It is therefore not possible for the Association of Revisions to exert pressure on cooperatives if the business is properly managed there. However, the revisor must intervene if there is a danger of damage to the members of the cooperatives. The fact that no members of the Raiffeisen cooperatives have been harmed in Austria over the last 50 years is due to a good revision, and we certainly do not want to tear it down.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e16222	Mr Ing. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Reichhold. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e16244	High house! Mr. Federal Minister! The example that Mr Schwarzenberger has brought here is a nice entry into my speech for me, because it shows me once again: If you ask yourself from Salzburg how it is in Carinthia, nothing can happen, Mr Schwarzenberger! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In fact, the Board of Directors is not five but twelve people, and if you say there are three of them, that means that nine ÖVPs have still voted on this scheme. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] Secondly, he has shamefully kept to himself who is the crediting bank. The crediting bank was the Raiffeisen-Landesbank in Carinthia, which in turn controls the revision association. And precisely this revision association has carried out a very strict, leg-hard revision at this cooperative, with a single goal: to abandon an unloving managing director because he has pursued an aggressive market policy that is favourable to farmers. That's it! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: And the 100 million debts you hide!]] This cooperative has temporarily been in trouble due to the BSE crisis and is now back and was always healthy in the core business. That is why, Mr Schwarzenberger: Explorers If you don't join my colleague Wurmitzer, he usually doesn't have the appropriate information. If you want to know something, you'll either come to me or leave it to a Carinthian Member. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: 100 million debts!]] But now a few criticisms about the cooperative... [[Abg. Dr. Haider:... the Slovenian Bank 180 million!]] Yes, this is the Raiffeisen Landesbank, a particular problem we would rather not discuss today. The starting point of this reform is the 1995 "consumer" plea. And, among other things, the Minister has also announced that the cooperative law will be amended. Working groups were called up, the mountains cried out, studies were made – and a mouse came out in the form of the cooperative revision law. This small law, which has been adopted here, has an infidelity from the trend, namely the centralization of the entire Raiffeisen sector. The example I have just mentioned is that we are criticising the fact that, with the instrument of revision, unloving memberships acting as competitors on the market are being taken to the kandare in order to create a monopoly situation. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Mr. Reichhold! Pleite has gone the "consumer", not the raiffeisen!]] Our second criticism is that cooperatives have been handed over to the revision associations because they cannot leave without the agreement of the revision associations and do not have the opportunity, like capital or stock companies, to use independent economic trustees for the revision of the company. Another criticism is that the rights of the associations are increased in such a way that the rights of cooperatives to be included and retained in the association are clearly underdeveloped. Nor are the consequences of the exclusion from the revision procedure regulated. The financial settlement of the members of the revision association, which of course also invested there, is not regulated. That is, Mr Schwarzenberger, if you have the kindness to listen to me: Only the threat of an unloving membership group being excluded from the association is enough to force them to kneel because one knows that the financial expenses, the investments in the revision association, will never be recovered. Or, another point: the extensive powers of the revisor himself, who is once again very closely bound to the revision association. A change of statute, a change to the cooperative agreement can only be made with the agreement of the revisor. Or: an expansion of the business unit. Or: Deficiencies may be entered in the company's book, may be published. This can't be done by a capital company! An extraordinary assembly can be convened in order to be able to disaster the image of a non-precious member group in the public. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Are you interested in protecting the members?]] Finally, the review of the suitability of the auditors – contrary to the EU directives – is transferred to the associations. In our view, this is an unacceptable distortion of competition, because it creates a monopoly in the cooperative sector. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! You can scream as much as you want: This is a real centralization! [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: Cry no one at all!]] [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] This creates new dependencies and distortions of competition vis-à-vis stock companies. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: He has no idea!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] This can only be useful for those who call for the consolidation and centralization of the entire Raiffeisen sector in press releases and lectures: the Advocate General Konrad. He does not make any sense that he wants to create a Raiffeisen-AG in order to be able to face a black Raiffeisen-AG to the red bank formation CA/Bank Austria. Whether you like to hear this or not: This is a fact, and all the indications point out that the bowls and dumbly were lost by Conrad and Schwarzböck and the CA deal took place behind their backs. You know that very well, Mr. stupid! Federal Minister Michalek! You yourself have suggested in the Committee that you do not agree with some of the points of this cooperative law, nor do you have any pleasure in it, in particular with regard to the fact that the mixed associations do not have to be escaped and that the situation is clear that a competitor can look into the company's books for membership. Federal Minister! I do not understand why you do not develop a stronger political design force. You're not a notary who can lean back, but you're sitting on the government bank. I would have expected that the draft - if you do not agree with the situation - would have more effect on your handwriting. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I would like to make a corresponding amendment on the basis of the criticisms we have put forward. This amendment provides for the decommissioning of the mixed associations and, above all, the exemption from the obligation of association in order to create a level playing field with the capital companies. [[Quoted print version removed]] In doing so, we believe that freedom to create a level playing field, to maintain the autonomous structure of primary cooperatives in Austria as well as to propose a barrage of arbitrariness and abuse.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e16434	The just-readed amendment has been properly submitted, is supported accordingly and is therefore under negotiation. The next speech is by Mr Auer. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e16464	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! Mr Reichhold's contribution to the debate is forcing me to say a few words about the cooperative revision law and, in general, about cooperatives. Mr Reichhold! Perhaps every law is in need of change, but taking the "consumer" as an occasion is absolutely not necessary. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: This is in the explanations!]] [[Further calls.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The economic situation, which led to the "consumer" debacle, has been known for ten years. At the time, President Hobl said that on the mission "On the matter". It is the task of the institutions called to act, and it is not about preparing things by law. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Call to the liberals: This is in the explanations!]] [[Further calls.]] Mr Reichhold! Secondly, If a managing director of a cooperative works as well as those you said in the said cooperative, then no one – neither the board of directors nor anyone else – will doubt his abilities and make a change, except he leads the cooperative economically into the abyss. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Except you don't get him! Except you're gonna get a political review!]] Mr Reichhold! Thirdly, No one can prescribe a cooperative where it obtains the loans or the financing. No one can prescribe this to cooperatives. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: What about the party friend?]] Mr Reichhold! Fourthly, you said that a cooperative could only be examined by the relevant review association. I'm also correcting this: The Upper Austrian Raiffeisen Landesbank is examined by KPMG because it needs an international test. Please note, therefore, that this is also possible.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e16589	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We are entering the voting procedure. I would ask you to take the places for this purpose. We shall vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 872 of the supplements. The Members of Parliament have Magnificence here. Schreiner and comrades submitted an amendment. I am therefore going to vote first on the parts concerned by the proposed amendment and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Mag. Schreiner and comrades have tabled an amendment to Article I Paragraph 26 para. 1 and Article V. 2 para. 2 refers. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask for a sign to be given to this proposal. – This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. I shall immediately vote on those parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done by the majority. This is therefore accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. The request was accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to give the draft law the same sign at third reading. – This is done by the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report by the Committee on Justice on Amendment 418/A (E) by Mrs Ing. May. Erich L. Schreinerand Co-operatives concerning the re-codification of the whole cooperative right (873 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e16662	We're on the 11th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr Ing. May. Schreiner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e16689	Mr President. Federal Minister! Some of the considerations underlying the motion for a resolution have already been carried out during the debate on the CSCE. Mr Auer! I would like to point out to you, because of the opinion you have expressed, that the cause of the change of the law would not have been the scandal of the "consumer", that the explanatory remarks on page 15: A well-known major insolvency at the beginning of 1995 has caused us to amend the cooperative revision law today. – Please, you also need to read it if you decide something, Mr Auer! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister for Justice! I have listened closely to your debate contribution, in which you have not only explained the cooperative revision law but also given an outlook on your projects. Federal Minister! I agree with you on a wide range of passages that we need a lot of things when we are re-coding. We need to improve the underdeveloped position of the owner. We need clear restrictions on liability, because it is not clear that the owner is liable with up to a maximum of the double of his deposit beyond these, without even knowing it. There is a lack of publicity, and there is a lack of a clear mandate in the current cooperative law, which originates from the last century and goes a means: on the one hand, to promote the farmer, on the other hand, to carry out business tasks. A clear, transparent path must be taken. Federal Minister! I keep wondering what you're actually waiting for. In 1990, according to the Committee on Milk Economics, the Federal Government promised high and holy to address this matter. Seven years have since moved into the country. I believe that economic laws cannot be pushed into the long-term bank, because in the course of the globalisation of the world economy, they do not all wait for us, Minister of State. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] After the government had written it into its government programme in 1991, after having rewritten it in 1994 and 1995, it would be high time that this motion for a resolution was finally adopted in Parliament and that, Mr Federal Minister, you were finally opening up the locks for a re-codification of the cooperatives, and that you were really against the fact that the cooperatives would be re-codified. Ladies and gentlemen! I am also concerned that we do not do much in this rather difficult matter for those concerned. The current cooperative system is no longer accepted by practice. Federal Minister! I checked the company book Krems. Do you know when the last primary association was registered there? It was in 1973, i.e. about 25 years ago, and there was a forest cooperative in the Gföhl district. That was the last entry. That is, we have more and more dead right to re-establish. Therefore, recodification is necessary. Ladies and gentlemen! I would ask you to agree to this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e16759	Mr Kurzbauer, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e16780	Mr President. Federal Minister! We are now dealing with the request of the liberals regarding the re-codification of cooperative law, i.e. an overall change in cooperative law. The Austrian People's Party will, of course, reject this request. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] It will, on the one hand, reject it because it is not necessary to change a well-functioning system. There is therefore no need for action at present. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: But there is a different opinion from the Minister!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Secondly, the Federal Minister for Justice has already pointed out that a working group has been set up and a survey has been carried out in Salzburg and, on the basis of this working group, a modification of the law is being prepared. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Sensation!]] Federal Minister! I would like to ask you to maintain the effectiveness and flexibility of this law in this re-modification and to give priority to the promotion of members. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It is precisely these advantages that can be found in the cooperative law, which was adopted in 1873 as well as in 1934, 1936 and 1974, and this certainly also applies to a few accompanying laws, such as the 1903 revision law or the 1982 cooperative competition regulation. It's a flexible law. Mr Schreiner! If, in the motion for a resolution, you point out that there is a lack of practicality in the field of export transactions or the settlement of securities trading is inadequate, then this accusation cannot simply be left out. The cooperative law essentially regulates the basics, just as the house has a roof, but in the inner relation the regulation is made by the statutes. The Statute is decided by the upper organ of the cooperative, the General Assembly, and the Statute also regulates the powers of the institutions: the Board of Directors, the Supervisory Board and the General Assembly. In practice, I know that because I worked in a bank for a number of years in the cooperative sector, there has been no problems in the areas of securities trading or export transactions. The Raiffeisen money sector, for example, is set up in such a way that you can carry out all transactions on the ground at the primary level. Of course, these transactions are forwarded by the Landesbank on the basis of the three-stage structure. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Reichhold! I almost have the impression that you are so violently opposed to our present cooperative system because you or your group, the liberals, seem to have little influence on it. [[Abg. Haigermoser: There is the party book...!]] [[Further calls.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to thank the many officials and employees of the revision very much. Because of their activities in partnership, our cooperatives are an important partner in our economy.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e16866	There is no one to speak on this point anymore. That concludes the debate. A final word of the rapporteur is not wanted. We are entering the voting procedure. I therefore ask you to take the place in question. We are now voting on the request of the Committee on Justice to take note of its report 873 of the supplements. In the event of approval, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done by the majority. The request was accepted. 12. Point First reading of application 478/A by Mr Karl Öllingerround Co-operatives concerning a federal law amending the unemployment insurance law (AlVG) and the Karenzgeldsgesetz (KGG)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e16920	We're on our way to the 12. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Your club will be available for 6 minutes of speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e16948	Mr President. It's relatively short. Since I have little time to talk about the applications, in my contribution I confine myself to one of the most important applications, I do not wish to bring any hierarchy into the applications. This request concerns the care obligations of the unemployed, particularly women with care obligations. It is essentially a question of knowing the bad measures that have been put in place by the savings packages, but also previously by the rulings of the Administrative Court or by the law itself. We know that there is a draft implementing decision of the Minister for Social Affairs; at least one has been announced. But it has not yet seen the daylight, and I do not think it can see it because it would be counter-empty. In our view, the law must be repaired because it makes very clear requirements and actually acts only against women. That is why I ask you to make these two provisions for which we propose amendments – § 9 para. 3a and § 10 para. 1a) to consider further discussions, because the public debate in recent months has shown that in this case something really is being executed at the expense of women, whereas the AMS considers that it is not part of its mission to make social or women's policies, but that it only punishes women that they take the legal mandate seriously, namely to exercise their care obligations towards children. It must not be the case that women are actually being punished for it. It is of no use to us – I repeat: it is of no use to us – if the Ministry of Social Affairs or the Minister of Social Affairs fails and with a decree of enforcement tries to repair the law if there are already appropriate administrative court judgments or § 9 para. 3 clearly says that these women or these persons are actually to be excluded, because they are concerned with the care outside of the place of residence, as stated in § 9 para. 3 is regulated. The second is not directly related to the savings packages, but concerns one of the major problems encountered in connection with the karenz. According to the current legal situation, the benefit rests on a stay abroad for more than two months. However, it is not to be seen that a person who has acquired the right to karenz money does not claim their nine, twelve or 18 months, depending on how long the karenz is claimed. Why not if care is taken?- Oh, my God! I assume that it is very easy to find out whether the person who relates to karenz money goes abroad with the child and wants to claim the karenz there, or whether it so to speak "puts off" the child at home and places itself abroad on its own. It is absurd to maintain this provision. In my opinion, it is a matter of pure shock or of trying to maintain an element of control that is not justified by anything in this case. It may also be that this has not been considered by anyone, Mr Hums, and perhaps it has not been a problem to date. But I think it is in the course of new life-designs that people take their freedom, quite acceptable to design these life-designs in such a way that it is possible to claim Karenz abroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e16996	Mrs Silhavy is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 10 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e17017	Mr President. High house! Requests 478, 502 and 504 of the Greens deal with the situation of single parents or with an independent entitlement for fathers. On the one hand, a single mother is sought who does not want to mention the child's name – for which there are always understandable reasons – to give the possibility to claim the cash grant in the event of a repayment obligation. On the other hand, the aim is to reach Karenzgeld until the second year of life – or part-time employment until the fourth year of life – for single parents. The intention of these two applications, namely single parents, is to offer the same opportunities that two parents have if they care for a child, we can share social democrats in the basic concerns of applicants. Nevertheless, we also need to discuss advantages and disadvantages on these issues, in particular the problem of increased labour market displacement, which we must also repeatedly note in other areas, but also the question of control. Because we certainly do not want to achieve a state of affairs as it existed in earlier times in the increased karenz money. I should like to remind you that some groups have repeatedly demanded so-called abuse exclusion, and the attempts to prevent abuse have reached the so-called toothbrush control. I don't think that can be our intentions. I don't want to hide here personally. Of course, this also concerns the question of an open, tolerant attitude to life forms in our society. In view of the first meeting of the Subcommittee of the Committee on Equal Opportunities on the treatment of women's desires and the discussion there, I fear that we do not currently find appropriate majority voting in this House for these concerns. I hope, however, that the Committee's deliberations may be in such a way that majority voting is possible. On request 500, I would just like to say one thing today: Mr Oellinger, the problem lies in the fact that karenz money is still seen as a substitute for remuneration. That is why we cannot see this problem independently and not completely detached from unemployment benefit. In my opinion, therefore, we will have to debate it in more detail at the Committee meetings. On Amendment 501, I not only recall the commitment of the Minister for Social Affairs to issue an implementing decision, but I also point out that discussions are currently taking place within the framework of the AMS. I assume that this is also known to you, Mr Oellinger, because you know otherwise about the discussions that are taking place in this area. We all know that the consideration of childcare facilities – of opening hours and conditions – is an essential prerequisite for the compatibility of family and work. In my view, this point in particular must also be dealt with in greater depth in the context of the treatment of women's desires, so that we can achieve improvements. I do not think it can only be in line with the proposal you are requesting with your request. We must not continue to assume that we are demanding childcare facilities which are of high quality and adapted to the needs of children and parents. I would like to see a little less attention given to this advanced period of time, and we will discuss all these requests in more detail and in detail in the Committee on Budgets, which do not deal with individual requests. I hope, however, that, after a detailed discussion in the committees, it will be possible to find a majority that will enable the development of women-specific measures in this House.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e17069	The next speech is by Mr Dr. Feurstein. 10 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e17090	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been said that the basic concerns are undoubtedly properly seen in these applications. I am thinking, in particular, of the request that a single mother, if she does not want to call the father, may also receive an increased pension fund, subject to the condition that she is prepared in writing to repay this increased benefit. Nevertheless, I would like to say that some of the proposals are very problematic. That's what you're supposed to notice today. I see a major problem when you ask for the karenz money to be extended to a full two years in certain cases. The mothers have two years' notice of termination, and this is to remain. But because of the situation as a whole, I would like to point out that it is not possible to extend the pension to two years at the moment. You should not raise false hopes here either. I see your request as equally problematic... [[Abg. Oillings: Part-Time Care...!]] There's part-time care, you know. There is even the possibility for a single person to receive up to three years of part-time leave. This is a very long period of time, and in this period there is, of course, also the possibility of getting the posts again. However, your request is also problematic, in which you demand that you pay karenz money abroad for two months. Ladies and gentlemen! They know that the benefit is essentially derived from unemployment benefit, because the claim is acquired through the payment of unemployment insurance contributions. This is where I see the problem of disregarding this possibility of control. A major reason is that there is a possibility of determining the extent to which child care is provided at all. Ladies and gentlemen! Let me present a point that is directed towards the future. We have long been ready by the ÖVP to clarify the basic question of those mothers who are in Karenz, namely that they can take up temporary employment during the karenz, for example in certain activities in the company in which they were employed, take on a short-term holiday representative or do some assistance work to facilitate their return to work. All these measures, which help to promote the return of women to work, we strongly represent, and I hope that we will soon find a solution, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In any event, I would like to stress that my group is prepared to clarify this problem and also to provide a solution. I believe that we need to deal in principle with the issues in the Committee, and I have already suggested that our view on the one point is very much in line with a specific request, namely that which provides for the repayment obligation in the case of increased pay. I am convinced that, together with the Minister for Social Affairs, we will find a solution in this regard. . In so far as my brief opinion on these requests is concerned.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e17134	Mr Blünegger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). – Ladies and gentlemen, one minute’s speaking time is available to you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e17152	High house! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen. In its opinion on the social state and the word "social", as the Greens' requests show, one can also exaggerate. Mr Oellinger! After your application for a pension allowance, even with a stay abroad for two to three months, there is only an exaggerated commitment of the Greens to foreigners! [[Abg. Oillinger: That beats the barrel out of the ground!]] [[Further calls to the Greens.]] Because if it were you, the spouses of the host workers who came to Austria in the context of the family merger could, at any rate, go to their ex-home at any rate and get there the karenz money, which is actually in the country. I will certainly not agree with your request because we liberals consider it excessive. Your request is also covered, according to which only persons who cannot or do not want to call the child father – with the will in the foreground – are to receive a claim for a karenz money grant. I wonder, Who pays back if the child mother doesn't?
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e17185	Ladies and gentlemen, please accept the final sentence. One minute is unfortunately very short.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e17200	I'll bring the final sentence. – You will say: The child mother commits herself anyway. But this is a green-eye view! [[Abg. Oils: Blue-eyed!]] There would be some example of this, because the question of liability is certainly not clarified.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e17239	Mrs Mag. Mag. has now been mentioned in the debate. Kammerlander. Madam honourable Member, your club has a 2 minute remaining speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e17257	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. I would like to refer my speech to three requests and to go into them very briefly. On the whole, as with all our requests, it is about correcting the savings packages, especially the last savings package. In concrete terms, the question of parental leave in the event that the father wants to take care of the care money because the mother is in training or is unemployed. It cannot be seen that in such a situation the father cannot take advantage of the leave allowance! This is based on the very patriarchal model, according to which women, of course, care for the children, and it is not taken into account that a woman may be in training at that time. The woman experiences double discrimination: It must interrupt training so that the child is cared for because the father cannot, and does not receive payment. We consider that an appropriate arrangement, which takes account of women in such a situation, is a very urgent concern. The two other proposals, as my previous speakers have pointed out, deal with the equality of single parents vis-à-vis married couples or couples living in the community. This concerns, on the one hand, the duration of the karenz period, namely the two years or four years in part-time employment, because it is not to be seen that there is a disadvantage in a single person vis-à-vis couples, on the other hand, about the question of the reference of the karenz money in case the woman does not want to disclose the name of the father and commits himself to self-reimbursement. That's just a small correction anyway. It should be free for the woman to call the name of the father – for whatever reason – or not. Final rate: All in all, we believe that these proposals contain minimum corrective measures to eliminate the worst injustices.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e17295	No one is reported in the word anymore. That concludes the debate. I agree with Amendment No 478/A to the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs. 13. Point First reading of application 500/A by Mr Karl Öllingerrund Comrades concerning a federal law amending the unemployment insurance law and the Carenzgeldsgesetz
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e17335	We're coming to the 13th. Agenda item. There are no words. I therefore agree with Amendment No 500/A to the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs. 14. Point First reading of application 501/A by Mr Karl Oellingerrund Comrades concerning a federal law amending the unemployment insurance law – AIVG
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e17377	We come to item 14 of the agenda. There are also no words available here. I therefore agree with Amendment No 501/A to the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs. 15. Point First reading of motion 502/A by Mr Karl Oellingerrund Comrades concerning a federal law amending the Parentary Vacation Act (EKUG)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e17419	We're coming to 15. Agenda item. There are also no words available here. I therefore agree with Amendment No 502/A to the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs. 16. Point First reading of application 504/A by Mr Karl Oellingerrund Comrades concerning a federal law amending the KUZUG and the Karenzgeldsgesetz (KGG)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e17464	We arrive at the 16th. Agenda item. There are no words either. I therefore agree with Amendment No 504/A to the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs. The agenda is exhausted. Request for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e17500	We shall now proceed to the debate on the request of the honourable Members. Stadler and comrades on the establishment of an investigation committee in accordance with § 33 GOG-NR. As this request has now been distributed to all Members of the House, a reading by the writer is not necessary. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e17549	We are going into the debate. In accordance with Rule 57a of the Rules of Procedure, the floor was first given to Mr Magistrate. Stadler as an applicant. He has a speaking time of 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e17571	Mr President. High house! I have already announced this morning that there will be this request, and I would like to remind you once again of how things in the Ministry of the Interior have become more acute, which has led to the pitfalls in the investigations on bomb terrorism. First of all it was for Minister of the Interior A very embarrassing thing when it became known in April and May 1995 that he himself had known one of the perpetrators of the failed bombing attack in Ebergassing. Although he had said that before, it turned out: He not only knew him, but also donated money to him, so that the perpetrators can finance processes against Dr. Haider or buy printing machines for their Revolverblatt, the so-called "TATblatt". Then suddenly Bassam Al-Taher disappears, and later it turns out – and the Minister of the Interior even admits that! – that this Bassam Al-Taher could disappear because an indiscretion from the Ministry of the Interior made it possible for him to be warned from the scene. Then the Minister of the Interior is the first really big political pan: He's trying to organize a cardiac offender in the scene about Mr. Purtscheller. Purtscheller and scene lawyer Dr. Prader are supposed to organize a heart attack so that he can stand before the public as a successful minister, and to distract the Austrian public from being close to sympathy for the entire terrorist scene and to support this terrorist scene with his own donations. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] That's right! It's all obvious and comprehensible! There is also a fine of Mr. Oberschlick, which has now been placed at the ORF after his "FORUM" has been terminated. Mr Oberschlick even filed a fine against the Federal Minister, because he wanted to fight against the fact that Mr One is trying to organize a culprit, which is then allowed to run again after a few months, only to keep the establishment out of political difficulties. Ladies and gentlemen! It was a problem, however, that Mr Kufner, Purcheller and Neugebauer, through very specific misinformation as a news-difference and false informants – V-people of the Ministry of the Interior; that is obvious, Mr. Leikam, you can ask, that the police will even confirm this to you! – this ministry was able to keep on track. [[Abg. Leikam: Confirmations behind your hand are not particularly courageous!]] It is not particularly courageous in this ministry either! Don't you know your ministry? One doesn't trust the other anymore. That's how it looks in this ministry! Your own comrades come to cry out! Faith You're telling me: Their own comrades cry out to us liberals because they no longer have confidence in their party because they know what repressions exist in this party! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There are repressions there that cause a general general general public security to complain in public about his being put under psychological pressure. Now, hopefully, you have read it in the "NEWS": The Director-General for Public Security, a party comrade of yours, a highly decent man, an official, as one might wish for many in Austria, says nothing less than that he was held under mental pressure, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dietachmayr: It is dangerous to be praised by you!]] You don't need to be afraid! I don't give you any praise. You haven't made a single qualified call yet! [[Congratulations and cheerfulness with the liberals.]] Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his excellent report. I think this is an incredible scandal! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The specifically misguided information and misguided investigations have made innocent people, the disabled and the elderly the subject of criminalisation, for which neither you nor Mr Jarolim nor Mr Cap have apologised with a syllable today, Mr Leikam! You should apologise! [[Abg. Scheibner: Excuse the population!]] Do not apologize to us, but to those people who have been made a subject of criminalisation because of this news disappearance and because of targeted disinformation! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Leikam.]] You as a Carinthian should know: With a family you have entered the balcony, in the storm attack, with EBT methods. When one tried to be particularly courageous, there was a blind woman in the wheelchair. I'm sorry you didn't. To this day no official excuse has been made for these husbands! The spouse, even a holder of awards from the Republic, has said that he has completed with this Republic. With people who treat him like this, who today, after knowing the perpetrator, do not even have the greatness to apologize to him, he wants nothing more to do. He's done with that state. – So if so much has already been said about propriety and apologies today, it would really be necessary to apologise to these people who have been deliberately made a subject of criminalisation! I'd like to show you with which fetzen paper you can get to the crime in Austria. This piece of paper, these two pieces of paper, ladies and gentlemen, is the unmarked elaborate of Mr. Neugebauer from the so-called "Documentation Archive of Austrian Resistance", a communist-founded organization with which a total of 110 investigations against 110 unspoiled, partly highly respected people in this country have been carried out, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Neugebauer had helper helpers in the ministry, he was given an investigation order from the Federal Ministry of the Interior, Group II c. The DÖW is a private club, it lives on taxpayers' money and it is only so that it can be politically instrumentalized! But They do not need to believe that all of this goes without political knowledge. The political leaders are sitting here! This DÖW gets its money from the Federal and the City of Vienna, all this is being handled through a foundation, ladies and gentlemen! It is a very bad practice institution, whose most evil work – and a German court has judged – is the so-called "Handbuch des Österreiches Rechtsextremismus" (Handbuch des Österreiches Rechtsextremismus)... [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: It hurts you!]] No, that does not hurt us, Mr Novotny! You'd like it to hurt us! But this book is so primitive that it can never hurt us, believe me! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This book is such a simple and evil work of the DÖW that even a German court dares to say that it is an evil work of fortification! That doesn't hurt us, ladies and gentlemen. They tried and failed. And then it goes on: The Minister himself admits that he knows that certain confidential papers of the Ministry of the Interior have landed in the scene. [[Abg. Arbitrators: You would probably prefer to be called in the "Pfaffenspiegel"!]] Mr. Schieder! You want to make another contribution? [[Abg. Arbitrators: You would probably prefer to find yourself in the "Pfaffenspiegel"!]] I have nothing against being present in as many publications as possible! I have no problem at all with that! If you want to release a "Pfaffenspiegel", just too! [[Abg. Arbitrator: He's already being published!]] However, if you aim at the same thing with a "Pfaffenspiegel", that is to say, the people in Austria, Mr. Scheider, then you will be You no longer enjoy the esteem and take the position in my scale of values on which you are currently ranking! But I suggest you: Before you turn to the "Pfaffenspiegel", give out a "Einemspiegel"! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr. Author in speculator! The "one-man mirror" should include the complaint made by the Director-General for Public Security in Austria that a minister intends to try to prevent him from making the letter bomb investigations achievable in the Austrian public. – I am not referring to any old newspaper report now, but you can read it in the recent issue of the magazine "NEWS". I hope you've got this issue now. Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council and the President-in-Office of the Council for his excellent report. – literally: I've always said you're going to experience surprises. If I had said that louder, a cry of outrage would have been triggered. The book has helped to reverse the investigations. It contains only facts without political evaluations. – End of the quote. But what was desired in this ministry was not facts, but political assessments against the liberals, and that is fleeting! That was my wish! Put that in your "Pfaffenspiegel"!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e17731	Please put to the conclusion, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e17746	Ladies and gentlemen! There is therefore a pressing situation – which has also been listed by Mr Kiss in an approach of courage, which, however, has already left him in the meantime, – which speaks for a committee of inquiry. I would therefore ask you to agree.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e17777	Mr Leikam is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). From now on, the speaking time per speaker is 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e17805	My name's not Haigermoser, so I can't have been wiped out! [[Cheerfulness and applause at SPÖ.]] Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! In order not to make it particularly exciting, I would like to make it clear at the outset the position of the Socialist Group: We will not, of course, give our consent to the desire of the liberals to set up a committee of inquiry! Not only the current argumentation, but also the one that was presented in the course of the morning discussion by MP Stadler towards the Federal Minister One was very thin. It is a very thin argument with allegations that in no way correspond to reality. I would like to add four points to the written request submitted here by the Liberal Party, because the short time for speaking does not permit otherwise. The first sentence is not right. That's what it says: "Since the first 1993 letter bomb attacks, a climate has been created in public, which made it impossible for the authorities to determine specifically in all directions." Mein Ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party! That's just not true! Both Minister Lösnak and Minister One has repeatedly stressed that in all directions it is possible to determine. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Sika says something else!]] I'll be right there! You yourself, Mr Stadler, will then say on the third side, on the grounds that from 1996 onwards, in all directions has been determined. That means: Your introduction will be rejected by you on the third side! 1993! [[Abg. May. Stadler: When was the first letter bomb attack, Mr. Leikam?]] [[Further call of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] Mr Stadler! Unfortunately, I only have 5 minutes! But that may be a strategy of yours. If it's going to be unpleasant to you, you'll kill time with calls! I am not playing with that, Mr Stadler. [[Abg. Haigermoser: The soup is too thin!]] They mentioned an interview in the "NEWS" published today, in which the Director-General for Public Security gave a very detailed opinion on this matter. . Show me a line in this long interview, in which Director-General Sika Innenminister accuses anyone that he would have stopped investigations! Literally you can read in this interview – and I also have the press release in front of me! – that he in no way of ministers One was suppressed in the investigation of the bomb series. [[Abg. May. Stadler: I'll show you! That's it!]] [[Further lively calls to the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! For the heading, Director-General Sika states that he has never said that he has been put under psychological pressure! In the entire interview you will find nowhere the sentence that an oppression by the Minister has taken place. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Mr. Leikam! That's it!]] Read this! I'll tell you: It's nowhere! [[Abg. May. Stadler: Here it says: "I was put under mental pressure"!]] Second point: You're a culprit's profile. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Put your glasses on and read!]] You can't listen! [[Abg. May. Stadler: But I can read!]] You can't listen, that's your problem! [[Abg. May. Stadler: Read! Read! Put on glasses and read!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] They once called themselves the "Bello". For the Bellos there are own rooms that would be suitable for you! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! To the culprit's profile. The perpetrator's profile has been available to the investigating officials since the first minute. It cannot therefore be said that for one and a half years something has been kept secret or hidden. From the first minute, the investigators have had their hands on this criminal profile, and they have taken up their work after this criminal profile. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] It was also discussed in the investigating group about publishing this. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Leikam! Don't give your name for such a thing!]] It was the majority of the opinion that it should not be published, because it was not possible at the time, just as one does not know today whether it is a single culprit or a group of perpetrators. So this accusation too goes empty, because it does not correspond to the facts! [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Leikam! You're a real man! Don't let that stay!]] Ladies and gentlemen! A third point. I read a letter from Dr Franz Vrannitzky in the morning that there has never been this secret debate in his villa. However, you have the naughtiness and insolence and write in your request for better knowledge that this debate has been held. [[Abg. Dietachmayr: Incredible!]] That does not correspond to the facts, that is false! [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Fourth point: 200 million schilling costs for misleading warrants. Ladies and gentlemen! If such a difficult, extensive crime is to be dealt with, it is not possible to focus the arrests on a few persons, and it may happen, of course, that there is a need to agree that the suspects have nothing to do with the matter.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e18028	Please put to the conclusion, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e18043	This was also the case in these investigations. Ladies and gentlemen! Your request is a flop, it is a political abuse as we are used to it from you. We will not, of course, give our consent to this request.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e18074	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Schweitzer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e18102	Mr Leikam! You've been showing yourself out for the third time today with absolute levellessness. It should therefore not be taken too much into account! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is remarkable that the Austrian People's Party has refused or has refused to discuss the question of the Committee of Inquiry. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Wait!]] This is particularly remarkable because today, according to the report by the Federal Minister Schlögl, there has been a remarkable speech by ÖVP security spokesman Kiss. Among other things, this speech contained the view that the issue of the publication of the perpetrator's profile is a very important one; and it is – and the original quote Kiss – "the neglect of this criminal profile against the intentions of the Director-General for Public Security is a question to be discussed here in this House". Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! Kiss speaks of a neglect of the perpetrator's profile against the intentions of the Director-General and says that one has to follow it. That's where I ask you: Where can we do better than in a committee of inquiry? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Kiss continues literally: "If the Director-General for Public Security warns against political categorisation, from political thinking, and recommends that, in this really biggest criminal mystery in Austria in the Second Republic, an Enlightenment be carried out in a different direction, I must say: The responsible Minister of the Interior certainly did not go the right way! And then he called Caspar One." Mr. Klubobmann Khol! Your security spokesperson Paul Kiss says that this was not the right way. That means: If he didn't go the right way, he'd gone the wrong way. But why did he go the wrong way, Mr. Klubobmann Khol? Where can we better answer this question than by means of surveys in a committee of inquiry? Mr Kiss said today just after the speech of the Federal Minister for the Interior of Schlögl: "I say, and I stand by it: Caspar leaves no one out of this political responsibility!" [[Abg. May. Stadler: He doesn't stand for it!]] Your security spokesperson Pauli Kiss, who now shines in a debate that he should actually be conducting, through absence, which obviously has been banned from the Chamber, said that he is standing for it. That's what your security spokesperson Kiss said, Mr. Khol. He does not want to release anyone from this political responsibility. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Language’s and fell down!]] I conclude that he wants to take another look at the political responsibility of the then Minister of the Interior. In addition, Kiss said: "I claim this here and now, and I also carry the evidence in the following statements... " – Your colleague shows that political responsibility has not been assumed here. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: I've heard that before!]] I bring this to you once again to listen so you can see how you fall over again, how you care for your image as a crasher party again impressively! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] For it is your problem that you are constantly lying down, whether on questions that concern you, or on this security question, Mr Kiss has presented today: You represent your opinion quite differently outside than you show it here by your voting behaviour! Everyone behaves the same way: Muted, cushion, chole – fallen and lying down. That's the ÖVP! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Now there is Kiss!]] In a whole series of personal discussions he has held with the officials of the Ministry of the Interior, Mr Kiss, who now slips around there because he does not want to stand up to what he has said today, has received appropriate information. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! In background discussions, the Kiss Pauli received information that confirmed him.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e18205	Ladies and gentlemen, please accept the final sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e18234	I would like to conclude by saying: Kiss has received information that confirmed him that One has worked against the apparatus. And if that is not to be investigated, what is to be investigated, ladies and gentlemen?
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e18264	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Barmüller. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e18285	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, I cannot see Mr Kiss anymore, but he would be well advised to come back here in plenary and be present at the vote. [[The speaker sees Abg. Kiss in the back of the hall.]] Mr Kiss! Now I've only seen you. They're so inconspicuous back there. In your press release, you were more verbal. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] Indeed, they are the one who meant that the alleged letter - bomb culprit could not be captured earlier, alone being the fault of One. I have already told you from this pult today that, if you think so, you will certainly agree with this request for the setting up of an investigation committee. For if it is the sole fault of a Federal Minister that a suspected perpetrator could not be taken earlier, then it will probably also have to have consequences from you, as a security speaker with dianetic logic. Ladies and gentlemen! As regards the application itself and the claim that the publication or non-publishation of the perpetrator profile... [[Abg. Haigermoser holds his hands in front of the forehead, while thumbs and index fingers, touching at the fingertips, are kept on the eyes like a round frame.]] Mr Haigermoser, who is very popular today, is sitting here in a kind of pre-pubertary manner. But however, Mr Haigermoser, if you claim that the non-punishment of the perpetrator's profile would have been essential to success, I tell you that this had nothing to do with the fact that this alleged perpetrator has now been brought into the hands of the police. [[Abg. Haigermoser: You taught me that!]] Quite the contrary, that was without any effect. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: It was the Rasterfahndung!]] However, the accusations now claimed by the Freeman by the Director-General for Public Security, Sika, read quite differently in an interview. There you can read: "NEWS: Finally, there are some political issues. Is it true that you were put under pressure under the era of Minister of the Interior Caspar? – Sika: I regret that this is now being discussed. Minister One had the wish for the bomb series to be cleared up. He has never given instructions to identify in certain directions. I say that with absolute certainty. It is clear, however, that there have been disagreements between us. We have seen the matter from various points of view – but this has not hindered investigations." That's what Sika says. [[Abg. Leikam: Here you go! That's what I said!]] Another question is: "NEWS: They were under double pressure: the media on the one hand, the lack of ministerial support on the other! ... – Sika: In a way, it was. However, I cannot force a boss to like myself or my function." "NEWS" asks him: "... So you've had this book published behind the back of the Minister's back. Was that okay? – Sika: I have to admit – it was probably a mistake." [[Calls and calls between Scheibner and Leikam.]] I therefore say this for the Minutes because this interview clearly shows that what is claimed in the statement of this request for the establishment of a committee of inquiry is completely wrong. Therefore, once again: Sika says, "I have to admit – it was probably a mistake not to have told him. The accusation he brought against me was not unjust." "NEWS" continues to ask: "How did the pressure on you express itself? – Sika: Publicly, one has sought the success of the campaign only with political extreme groups. First of all, at the right, then at the left." It clearly states that both directions have been determined. "NEWS" says: "Now it's going to be a political hack! – Sika: One we certainly don't need at the moment. I don't want this discussion." [[Call to the liberals: Stop!]] Ladies and gentlemen! If the Director-General for Public Security, who is obviously also interested in clarifying this matter, believes that this hack, which is being held here by the liberals within the framework of this request, is not appropriate, then, I believe, one should not vote in favour of this committee either. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e18381	Mr Klubobmann is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e18411	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The liberals have submitted an application to examine the legal and political responsibility of the former Minister of the Interior. I read from the title of a "Mitagsjournal" of 7th century. October, in which Mr. One says – I quote –: "As regards the question of the perpetrator's profile, it is true that the criminal psychologist Dr. Müller was very intensively involved in the investigations and also brought his specific ability into the production of perpetrator's profiles there. However, it was in the circle of the investigators quite a shared view as to whether to go to the public with the help of the perpetrator profile, or not; and the majority of the investigators felt that one should not do so, essentially because a perpetrator profile of this kind induces them to believe it would be a single perpetrator. There have been both hypotheses in the investigators, namely, the group hypothesis and the individual perpetrator hypothesis; and as you know, even now it is not certain what one is about." [[Abg. Leikam: That's it!]] Ladies and gentlemen! What else are we going to do? – Mr Minister One has clearly said that he has decided for political reasons that he does not want to identify in the direction of individual perpetrators. He wanted to go in the direction of group perpetrators, and therefore he bears the legal and political responsibility for this behavior. [[Abg. Haigermoser: The pillow didn't deserve that either!]] The proposal goes further on: political instrumentalisation of bomb terrorism. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] [[Further calls.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I have followed the debate very closely today, from the first speaker to the last. Unfortunately, at the end of this day, I have the impression that not everyone is pleased that our political system should not have been in charge in this case because some political group would have used the bomb. I must say, as a patriot in this country, that I would be delighted if I could at all enjoy anything in this context, except for the fact that the perpetrator was taken – if not a political group behind it. In doing so, I agree with Mr Petrovic that this probably sick brain has, of course, acted out of harsh political motivation, out of harsh, abominable motivation. But I sometimes have the impression that some people here are feeling that the "evil right fascists" are not behind, and that others are again indignant that the "evil left fascists" are not behind. Ladies and gentlemen! Let's leave the church in the village, let's examine and determine the safety executive. [[Abg. May. Stadler: What is a left fascist? I don't know!]] I believe that this proposal - political instrumentalisation of bomb terrorism - is very clearly directed against those who have put it.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e18487	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We are entering the voting procedure. I ask the honourable Members to take their seats. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request by the honourable Member. Stadler on the establishment of an investigative committee. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request to give an appropriate sign. [[Call to the liberals:College Kiss!]] – This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Pauli!]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00088_d7e18536	I declare that the present session of the Self-employed has brought in Amendment No 603/A (E). Questions 3060/J to 3080/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for Thursday, 9. October 1997, 9 a.m. The agenda can be found in the written communication distributed in the hall. The sitting is closed.
