ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00069_d7e2271	Ladies and gentlemen! I'll open the 69. Meeting of the National Council, which is based on a sufficiently supported request in accordance with § 46 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure for the present day. The official protocols of 66. Meeting of 19 and 20. ==References====External links== ==References== In March, Parliament's management remained inconsistencies and inconsistencies. I may ask you to take the seats. For today's day of sitting, Members are reported to be prevented: Dr. Preisinger, Rosenstingl, Dr. Haider, Wabl, Oillinger, Vergestnitsch, Dkfm. Holger Bauer, Fink, Gatterer, Elmecker and Dr. Hlavac. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00069_d7e2311	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the resolutions of the Federal President concerning the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following communication: The Federal Minister for Economic Affairs Dr. Farnleitner is represented by Mrs Elisabeth Gehrer; Federal Minister for the Environment, Youth and Family Dr. Bartenstein by Mr. Federal Minister Dr. Fassleven. Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00069_d7e2338	The Green Group has, according to § 93 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure requested urgent consideration of the written question 2234/J tabled at the beginning of the sitting by Dr Petrovic and comrades to the Federal Minister for Women's Affairs and Consumer Protection concerning women's desires and genetic engineering. In the absence of an agenda by the hour, the oral question within the meaning of the Rules of Procedure shall be carried out three hours after its submission. I'm going to announce the exact time. Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00069_d7e2362	I would also like to say that the honourable Members have the power to do so. Firlinger and comrades have requested that the Court of Auditors report to the Court of Auditors on application 422/A for an audit carried out by the Court of Auditors pursuant to § 99 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure ==References== There is also the desire, pursuant to Rule 43 of the Rules of Procedure, to hold a brief debate on this request for a time limit. In view of the urgent need to deal with a written question today, this brief debate on the deadline request will take place after the debate on the urgent question has been completed. The vote will take place at the end of this debate. I don't know what to say. I shall begin with the debate on the urgent question at 3 p.m. and I will now interrupt the sitting until 3 p.m. to begin with the debate on the urgent question.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00069_d7e2398	Ladies and gentlemen! As agreed, I will resume the interrupted session at 3 p.m. Request for urgent procedure by Mr MMag. Dr. Madeleine Petrovic, Mag. Doris Kammerlander, Ing. Monika Langthaler, friends and friends to the Federal Minister for Women's Affairs and Consumer Protection on women's desires and genetic engineering (2234/J)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00069_d7e2440	We come to the urgent debate on the question by Mr Petrovic, Mag. Kammerlander, Ing. Langthaler and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats to the Federal Minister for Women's Affairs and Consumer Protection. As the urgent question has now been raised by all the Members, a reading by the writer is not necessary. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] (Please answer on the basis of the 11 demand points. I. Companies will only receive promotions and public contracts if they ensure that women are represented at all hierarchical levels according to their share of the population. ................................................................................................... Equal pay for equivalent work should be sought. This is why a minimum income of 15 000 S gross is to be secured, which is adjusted annually to the life cost index. III. Part-time work and minor employment shall be equal to full-time employment by labour and social law. IV. No account of the partner's income in case of emergency aid and compensation allowance. V. Equal opportunities for women must also be promoted by State education measures. The Federal Government has to produce gender-specific statistics on vocational and education issues and publish them annually. VI. Every person has the right to reconcile work and children. Therefore, the legislator has to provide full-day qualified care facilities for children of all ages. Day mothers must be trained and safeguarded by labour law and social law. VII. Two years of pay-as-you-go for all single-parents VIII. Legally guaranteed right to part-time work for parents until their child enters school with right of return at full-time. IX. Extension of the retention period at the workplace after the karenz period to 26 weeks. X. Every person has the right to a basic pension, which must not be under the minimum of existence. If one partner is not in employment, the other person must pay pension contributions. Children's education and care work have a higher pension. XI. No further increase in the retirement age for women, until there is actual equality in all areas.). 6. Will you submit to the Council of Ministers a government proposal to amend the Austrian food law which prohibits the use of genetic engineering in domestic food production? 7. Will you submit to the Council of Ministers a government proposal to amend the Austrian genetic engineering law, which has a ban on release for genetically modified plants? 8. Will you have a national single entry within the EU with regard to the placing on the market of genetically modified foods and with an import stop? In formal terms, the urgent treatment of this request is referred to § 93 para. 2 G.G. requests.'
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00069_d7e2570	I give the floor to Mrs Petrovic as the first questioner on the grounds of the question. The speaking time shall be 20 minutes in accordance with Article 93 of the Rules of Procedure. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00069_d7e2592	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! On the basis of our urgent question, let me make a few comments on the role of popular desires in Austria, including the debate on democracy, which was and will be held around these popular desires. There was, on the one hand, the talk of an inflation of popular desires. There were popular desires last year, the series continues now, and I think this will not have been the last popular desires – I hope so. [[Abg. May. Stadler: We will work hard!]] In my opinion, this so-called inflation is really because the government has made many announcements, especially in the social and environmental sphere, but in the implementation, in the realization, everything has remained guilty. And that is not an inflation, it is too much of a direct democracy, but a necessary political awakening, which I and the Greens very much welcome. Ladies and gentlemen! However, in the run-up to these popular desires – not only from the government side and also in the context of this special meeting – it has been the talk of a gathering of topics, of an inadmissibility of the thematicisation of popular desires here in this House in the context of a special session. I think this argument is absurd. Ladies and gentlemen! Since its entry into this Parliament since 1986, the Greens have always set the priorities of their parliamentary work in both areas, both in terms of measures to remove discrimination against women and genetic engineering and in general technology assessment. Of course, we remain faithful to these priorities, especially in the run-up to popular desire. More: In fact, we see ourselves as the parliamentary pipe of these excess-party popular desires, and here in Parliament, wherever that belongs, we want to clarify how the Federal Government, like the competent Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, stands on these legitimate concerns of the Austrian population. The clarification must be carried out here in this House during the registration week to a popular desire, because too much has already happened in matters of confusion at government level. There are also voices on both popular desires in the government parties who say yes, we support it, we support it. Our question is: What does that mean in parliamentary implementation? How will you, Mrs Federal Minister, be a member of the government, how will your group behave in the future? – In the past, we have made very, very many proposals from the Greens, actually on all eleven points of women’s popular desire, on all three points of genetic engineering popular desire. So far, all these applications have either been shaken or have been rejected with the votes of the government parties, with the votes of the Social Democracy. Our question now is: How will this be in the future: verbal announcements, verbal support – or actual implementation? That is the central question today. Will the verbal announcements follow actions, or will it be a confusion in the future? Another thing: It will, I assume, also be a request from the Liberals today to vote in order to abolish the right of Members to introduce popular desires. To the colleagues of the Liberal Group: One can, of course, discuss this provision. I just think, especially in Austria and at a time when this democratic awakening is at last happening, we really have to ask ourselves: What about direct democracy in Austria? Do citizens have enough rights – or not? – My answer is a clear no. The condition of direct democracy in Austria is such that – one could overemphasize it in this way – it could be even too happy to do so. Ms. Dr. Schmidt, the gang to the municipal office, the certified signature of 10,000 people is far too high a barrier, as are the candidates of groups to municipal elections, to country elections. And if you talk about this so-called privilege of Members, then only and exclusively hand in hand with a reduction of the too high obstacle for the citizens. This leads to contemplation, which leads to persecution in many areas – at community level, at national level – and that is a duck. That is why we use this so-called privilege as a fist to actually strengthen the rights of citizens in Austria – that is and not the other way! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Now to the two popular desires for discussion. As has been said, the Greens have repeatedly made advances in both fields over years. The government, you of the government parties, has at least in the past always blocked these advances or pushed them to the long bank. Women's policy: You, Mrs Federal Minister, have declared that you support this popular desire. I think that's right, I like it. Just, Mrs. Federal Minister, my question: What does this mean for you as a member of the government, what does that mean for your group, what does it mean for the Chancellor or the new party president who has expressly declared that he does not support this popular desire, because then one could expect from him also in this House legislative proposals, government proposals? [[Abg. Dr Schmidt: He's right!]] Does that mean that there will be no government documents? With what support will you, Mrs Federal Minister, submit government documents if your own Chancellor, your party chairman, apparently does not want it? Mrs. Federal Minister! How can it be understood if your party president says that women's policy is a "new task of the SPÖ"? I understand a lot better then. It seems that women's policy has not been the SPÖ's task so far. So far, there have been savings packages, for which Viktor Klima is also personally responsible, and that they have not taken a single step towards gender equality, which you will probably also confirm: Reduction of the second year of leave by half, not sufficient facilities with childcare facilities, no regionalization of the equal treatment prosecution, although this was even included in the Coalition Convention. Now it's even going to be agitated again. What should this new task look like – without any laws? Mrs. Federal Minister, are you going to bring in these billboards? How do you intend to get this through the Council of Ministers, if not even your colleagues on the government bank, and from your own group, to support these laws? If former Women's Minister and SPÖ Women's President Johanna Dohnal – whom I very much welcome to the gallery – has explained in connection with the statements made by Viktor Klima that it is still the greatest kindness to remain silent for solidarity, I ask you, Mrs Bundesminister, who has taken over this heavy office: How do you deal with this? Where will you look for your alliance partners if you apparently don't have them in the government? What bill will you bring into this house? As I said, The savings packages were women's tax packages, and now in the run-up to these popular desires: The promotions for the independent women who have initiated this popular desire – the Women's Forum – will be shortened. How should there be an infrastructure of women that can enable women to remain active and to control the fulfilment of this popular desire? Without money and without infrastructure, that won't happen. Mrs. Federal Minister! What about the release of the then Social Minister that women who are willing to work "only" – under quotes – half-dayly, women with care obligations, no unemployment benefit, not even women who have disabled children to care for? What about it? This was a release of a SPÖ minister. Such events can be reversed immediately. Will this happen, and when will it happen, Mrs. Federal Minister? And: What are you doing? As I said, We from the Greens have submitted a request for a request, and from the Government the actions have been avoided. Mrs Bundesminister, also in the matter of women's desires: What about the still few women who come to top positions and who we urgently need? Does this continue school now that such positions – the public prosecutor's board, the management of an eye clinic – are simply rationalized because the most qualified application comes from a woman, according to the motto: Don't be a man more than a woman! Is that really so, is that the reality of the SPÖ in its line of government? Mrs. Federal Minister! They owe an explanation here and today to the Austrian women and to those who may still be inconclusive, whether they should sign this popular desire. What about the actions of the SPÖ? We have heard good words for many years, too long. Ladies and gentlemen! Another question to the Federal Minister personally: Will you make use of your veto right in the Council of Ministers in the future when further burdens come to the Austrian women? Will you cross-cross, even if this is awfully difficult, even if you are under strong pressure – or will you, as in the past partly your predecessors, take with you tenacious loads for women? – All these are questions you can answer today, yes, you have to answer today. Second popular desire, genetic engineering: Mrs. Federal Minister! You have explained that this popular desire does not find your support. I suggest today that you have not even kept what you promised. You have said that you think a GMO-free zone of Austria is unrealistic, but you are at least a complete label. – Mrs Federal Minister, I ask you: Why, then, did you adopt such a regulation which does not cover even a third of all genetically modified foods? Why have you adopted a regulation that is violently denied in a study commissioned by your home? Why Have You are not even presenting this study to the public in good time, although it has been completed for weeks? Mrs Federal Minister: Questions about questions. Once again, the party president expresses himself – late, but still. He says: We don't need genetically modified food. - Well, that's a very clear statement. But my question is: What does that mean? Are you issuing a national ban on production? In our opinion, this is possible, in accordance with EU law. Will you do that, Mrs. Federal Minister? Mrs. Federal Minister! Where, then, is the liability regime required by you? A corresponding request from the Greens has been in Parliament for a long time. We have acted, and I ask you, why has the SPÖ pushed these concerns to the long-term? What happened? Mrs. Federal Minister, are you in favour of a national ban on release? And if so, when? When's the ban coming? If the party president says we don't need genetically modified food? Will you become active in this regard, or are the verbal air bubbles in the run-up to a popular desire that is now being put into the world, so that perhaps some undecided people do not go to the voting venues? Mrs. Federal Minister! In both popular desires, we miss the actions of the government. In both popular desires there were formal provocations even in advance. And unfortunately, you too have partly contributed. In the Council of Ministers, it was decided that the Austrian women "must" – under the lead marks – become the German army. Mrs. Federal Minister! This is not the problem of Austrian women. This is not the discrimination they are subjected to. Especially in the run-up to popular desire, this is a bottomless provocation – and nothing else! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In the run-up to genetic engineering popular desire, you adopt a novel to the Seed Law, which will abolish a last privilege of farmers, namely to complete and pass on old seed varieties: This means exclusively for the large seed groups, which will then deliver the spraying agent to the genetically engineered seed immediately in the double pack. Is this the intermediate performance of the Federal Government? – In both popular desires, the government is provocational. We demand the fulfillment of popular desires. Mrs Bundesminister, another word on realism. It is said again and again in discussions: That's not realistic. I ask you, Mrs Federal Minister: What great progress in history, what great social or ecological progress was initially realistic? - None! From the abolition of slavery to the at least formal equality of women, no social progress was realistic at first, and it had to be combated. Even in the field of ecology, the environmental movement did not fall into the lap. The vote on nuclear power in Austria has been taken against violent resistance. Mrs Bundesminister, it is not the task of politics, nor is it your job to describe bad realities. This is the task of statistics, which is the task of history research. They're supposed to make a policy. They are to take people's concerns seriously, and these concerns are expressed with great vehemence on both people's desires. Mrs Bundesminister, one last: Your personal credibility is also at stake. We were very disappointed that you did not become active at this special meeting, that you did not take the opportunity of taking a position as a member of the government, as was the case with many other special sessions – I say, also to areas which are probably far less important in the perception of the population. You've moved back, you'll be asked questions. That's really sad. Mrs. Federal Minister, you have lost much of credibility through these provocations, which you have also condoned with. Now, at this special meeting, and then, in the light of the results of popular desires, you probably have the very last chance to regain your personal credibility. Mrs. Federal Minister, you don't have your allies in the government. If you are not looking for them in the population and elsewhere, you will soon be very, very alone and will not be able to exercise this office in the long run.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00069_d7e2665	To answer the question, the Federal Minister for Women's Affairs and Consumer Protection spoke. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00069_d7e2686	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I have supported the popular desire of women – you all know – since the beginning of my term of office, which my predecessor has already done, both financially and Ideally. I have participated in numerous events throughout Austria and I have also expressed my support in the media. I'll make this clear. Social-democratic women have also supported popular desire from the very beginning, and are known to have taken a similar decision at the SP-Federal Conference, which took place only two days ago, just as it did yesterday at the Federal Party of the SPÖ. It is an infidelity that women in our society are still not equal to men in many areas of public and private life, do not have the same opportunities, but, on the contrary, are often hindered by the exercise of their rights and opportunities. Equal rights and equal opportunities for women were achieved and is the logical goal of the policy of a, of course, Social-Democrat Women's Minister; it was the goal of my predecessors and, of course, of mine. Not only because women's policy is a cross-sectional matter, but because it requires enormous social change to achieve this goal, the decisive support and the serious cooperation of all those responsible for it is necessary. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Those conservative forces who want to adhere to the traditional role assignment of women and thus to traditional discrimination of half the people will also be forced to think about it, I am convinced. Because more and more women across all shifts, across all parties, are no longer willing to deal with their situation, neither in private life nor in working life or in other social areas. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] More and more women will be responsible for those politicians who are taking part in lip recognitions of equality, but who reject all proposals and measures for their implementation. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The sentence will still be very difficult for you, Mrs. Minister!]] By the way, I would like to get to know the ideas of these ladies and gentlemen in detail. More and more women demand that the gap between formal equality and the reality of inequality be reduced or disappeared. This growing awareness and the determination of women's demands is becoming more and more evident. It is a task for the policy to take this into account. We can now say to Austria that although a great deal has been achieved, it has been essential measures to reduce discrimination, to promote women, to achieve equality, many are still lacking. It's clear: It's always too little, and it takes too long. It is therefore understandable, comprehensible, and I expressly welcome the fact that women join together across party borders and other separations and seek a new, hopefully effective way of driving forward women's affairs. In this respect, I see a great opportunity in the women's people's desire. No one will be able to close the articulation of dissatisfaction, dissatisfaction, the clear demands and warnings that many, many women and some men, were indisputable in the preparation period of popular desire. I therefore see the fundamental concern of the women's people's desire as a clear mission to me and to the Federal Government to proceed quickly with the concrete implementation of equality measures. There must be a clear commitment by the political leaders to the fact that in a democratic society it is not a matter of knowingly abstaining from half the population, knowingly depriving half of the population. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I have therefore already made it clear in my opening press conference that I am going to proceed immediately to bind up a new package of equal treatment. In 1993, Minister of Women Johanna Dohnal succeeded with enormous effort in setting a milestone for the cause of women. In the context of the call for the adjustment of the retirement age of women, measures have been adopted and defined which are very likely to improve the situation of women in a sustainable manner. Now it is time – and I see the women's people's desire as very supportive – to launch a new stage. The year 2018, in which the retirement age is to be adjusted, is still far away, but there is still much to do to meet the conditions for it. On the open points of the 1993 equal treatment package, it should be noted that some of them do not cause a budget burden. I would like to mention some of these: EC countries, EC countries, EC countries, EC countries, EC countries, EC countries, EC countries, EC countries, EC countries, EC countries, EC countries, EC countries, EC countries, EC countries, EC countries, EC countries, EC countries, EC countries, EC countries, EC countries, EC countries, EC Others require difficult negotiations in terms of their feasibility – we know that. In any case, concrete implementation requires a large number of legislative changes, which is why I have used a cross-group working group to implement this project. I would also like to say quite clearly in this context: State policy has to create framework conditions that bring about absolute gender equality. Whoever claims again and again, we would have everything in Austria, I would point to a wealth of facts and facts that prove the opposite. The rule of law, which is largely equivalent to the day-to-day struggle of women for their actual equality. The apparent justice of collective agreements is opposed to the fact that women still earn by a third less than men. The formal access of girls and women to all educational institutions is compared to the low proportion of women in higher positions, economics, universities and politics. This and other injustices must be and will be the goal of committed women's policy, as well as of any democratic policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to begin by saying the following: Austria still has enough of its own tasks in the open questions about genetic engineering. As a central task for me, I see the EU's opinions as a critical line in genetic engineering. It is important – and I have already said this publicly several times – that there is genetic engineering popular desire. First of all, the popular desire accelerates the discussion and the processes in the field of genetic engineering, and second, through the great medial preparation of this popular desire – although controversial – a lot of information on genetic engineering was provided to the Austrian population. At this point I would also like to refer to my own information offensive on genetic engineering, for example on the platform on the Internet or on the genetic engineering brochure available in large edition. Now to answer the individual questions: Question 1: I think every signature is serious. It can't be about anyone drawing a border somewhere and saying, so many signatures I take seriously and so many not. This would be extremely worrying in terms of democracy, and it was consistently thought that in Austria we do not take the needs and demands of small groups seriously. It is also a matter of course for me, as Minister of Women, to take care of the concerns of all women. It is also true in previous work that there are smaller groups within women with specific problems that need to be solved as well as those of a majority. That means that the result of the two popular desires is definitely to be taken seriously, regardless of the number of signatures. At least I'll keep it that way! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On question 2: Emancipatory progressive women's policy is a matter which, in many areas, necessarily aims at profound social change. Let us just think about the division of paid and unpaid work. There must be radical rethinking between women and men. Many may think that this is unfulfilled. I'm sure we'll achieve this goal, even if it lasts. I would like to say that in principle I do not consider any of the demands of women, not of popular desire or of others, to be unfulfilled, because they are not overly utopian fantasies, but legitimate, self-evident, long-term demands. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The admission of unfulfilledness at the same time meant that one does not take the demands seriously, that one considers them unwarranted and that one has no visions. But women have such and are not yet unrealistic, as is otherwise often kept before us. In addition, we have already achieved much that has been thought to be unfulfilled. I think it's more about how things are dealt with. With political persuasion, with factual arguments, with toughness in the fight, with consequences in the case of non-fulfilment and, above all, with serious solidarity, we will succeed in creating equal rights and opportunities for women and men in this society out of seemingly unfulfilled wishes. I don't want to be unrealistic. Of course, in some respects it will be a little easier – I do not want to say easily – than in others. The persistence of the dominant male structures of power-keeping thinking and action is great. But at least the same size is that of women, and their impatience is even greater. I will address the demands on genetic engineering with questions 6 and 7. Question 3: Of course, I am prepared to keep the promises of the government members responsible at the time before accession to the EU and, if necessary, to reach national single entrances. I do not understand these promises as promises of future contractual and illegal actions of Austria, but as promises to use all legitimate ways of representing Austrian interests. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This is for me a question of political credibility, morality and loyalty to the contract. Austria has prohibited the placing on the market of genetically modified maize alone. Austria has filed many applications for approval. These were often actions that made us extremely unpopular in many proponents of genetic engineering and pushed us into the role of the outsider. A critical journalist reported on the EU's admission practice from Brussels and called the Austrian approach a "sand in the gearbox of the genetic engineering lobby". As far as women's desire is concerned, it is also important for me to note here that Austria continues to play the pioneering role it has in many social matters. I refer to the laws in the field of professional equality and in the fight against violence against women. Of course, I will continue to seek allies at national and European level to maintain and develop this standard. Question 4: It is important to note that there cannot be women's policy at a zero rate, as there are no other policy areas which do not cost anyone. It is a matter of political priorities, which is being used as a priority in what time horizon and also with what financial resources. And I say it quite clearly now: Women's policy must be a priority, not for self-evident purposes! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There are good reasons why women's policy should have top priority in terms of economic policy, labour market policy, social policy and, last but not least, social policy. We are investing in women's education and we must make every effort to ensure that these investments for women and for our society as a whole are remunerated by the use of women according to their qualifications. We are investing in the integration of women into the labour market and must try to make it possible for companies to reconcile work and family for women and men. We support women on social policy measures and we must try to restore them to their own strength. We know that women do most of the unpaid work, and we must try to ensure that this work is divided between the sexes in order not to establish a second class of female workers on the labour market. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We want to boost our economy, and we can do so by creating conditions for existential jobs, for adequate wages and for stable social security, in other words by creating demand, ensuring price stability and social peace. Women in particular benefit from this. In addition, an economic downward spiral is prevented. There is a need for a common effort to treat women's policy as a priority. For this joint effort, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you all from this point of view. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Question 5: As I have already said in my introductory remarks, I will be determined to address the issues still open to me today in the 1993 equal treatment package. First of all, I am concerned with access to and equal opportunities in the labour market for women. In this context, it is essential to do everything possible to transfer precarious employment into regular service conditions. And as a first step, models for the inclusion of minor employment relationships in social security schemes are already being debated. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As has recently been pointed out by developments in trade, solutions need to be found quickly in order to put a bar on the increasing flight of employers from labour law. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: You decided!]] Of course, these activities cannot be limited to the problem of small employees alone. Finally, it is about integrating all incomes into social security systems. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In the near future, there will be first results of a research project commissioned by me, from which I expect decisive impetus to a women-friendly problem-solving solution. In parallel with the allocation of the 600 million schillings for the creation of childcare facilities, I will also deal intensively with the pre-drive of the vocation of the mother of the day. It is also currently working on models for the transition from the profession to day mother in related areas, so that the profession also has a long-term perspective and does not lead to a dead end. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Maitz.]] In addition, the creation of social security-related employment in the field of care services is an important concern for me. Private care is almost exclusively provided by women. They often need social security and access to adequate training, which also allows them to move into related activities, as does the mother-in-law. In agreement with the Federal Minister for Labour, Health and Social Affairs, first proposals should be made by summer. In addition, work on the proposals for a pension reform continues continuously. It is my concern and also my mission – and I will, of course, do it – to bring in the concerns of women intensively. I will also implement novels of both equal treatment laws, i.e. both for the private sector and for the public service. In the field of the private sector, I will, among other things, work towards the abolition of the maximum amount of compensation in connection with applications and promotions, a shift in the burden of proof and an improvement in the protection of termination and relocation of the persons affected by discrimination. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Public services have been prepared under the chairmanship of the Minister for Women, a proposal for innovation to be introduced to Parliament this year, including improved tendering arrangements, the definition of women's shares in Commissions and the improvement of the legal status of equal treatment officers. These planned innovations will improve the legal framework for effective equality, thus contributing to the reduction of the income disadvantages of women and to the improvement of their career and rise opportunities. It is only in this area that I can list further activities in terms of securing and extending re-entry and qualification measures for women, training and training for girls in close cooperation with the labour market service and the production of specific framework conditions for supporting the creation of women's businesses. The intervention agencies planned in connection with the law on protection against violence in the family must be established and the protection of existing and the extension of women's advisory services still needed regionally. At this point I also appeal to all of you as representatives of the people: We can take a big step in women's policy together. Let us give priority to the legitimate concern of women! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On question 6: A change in the Austrian food law, which has a ban on the use of genetic technology in domestic food production, would not lead to a fundamental change for Austrian consumers – we must be aware of this – since, especially in the field of food, countless products are imported from abroad into Austria. Such a change in the food law could not be applied to these products. It is therefore all the more important to me to work internationally to ensure that the Austrian critical line on genetic engineering is also a school in the European Union. As Minister of Consumer Protection, from the very first hour on, it was a great concern not to preface any of the Austrian consumers on this issue. Currently feasible, taking into account the legal framework in the European Union, is a labelling of genetically modified products. The GMO I recently issued – and I have often said so enough in the public – has always seen me as a temporary preference to the EU-wide Novel Food Labelling Regulation, and – I emphasize this in particular – as a first step towards comprehensive food labelling. I will therefore certainly not be satisfied with the status quo on the labelling issue. That means quite specifically: Food additives, seeds, feed and food, which already have an EU-wide authorisation today, will have to be marked in the future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What, then, is to be done? – The already critical Austrian attitude to the use of genetic engineering in food is also to be made majority in the European Union. In addition, I will use every legal space to implement my own Austrian solutions – I will already work intensively on this. In addition, as Minister for Consumer Protection, I must take seriously the fact that people are insecure, yes, partly afraid. Economics and science must therefore have an important interest in not keeping their findings closed, but in entering into a broad dialogue with the population. I think it is in the interests of Austrian consumers, but also of Austrian agriculture, if I ask that Austrian agriculture should remain free of genetic engineering. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Question 7: According to Austrian Genetic Engineering Act, in which EU legislation is known to have been implemented, it is not possible to prohibit release for genetically modified plants. You all know that. The more necessary, therefore, are strict guidelines and criteria for assessing when and under what conditions such releases may take place for research purposes – I emphasize: for research purposes – at all. All those who have passed the Genetic Engineering Act must know that for each individual release for research purposes a regulatory authorisation is necessary. Applications for releases can only be approved after a democratic-public, i.e. transparent procedures under far-reaching exclusion of security risks. I say quite clearly here: For me, although I am not currently in legal control, it is not possible to imagine such an application, even if it has been strictly examined, without clarifying the indebtedness of liability. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Recent discussions on the sowing of genetically modified seed have shown clearly the importance of its comprehensive labelling. According to the Federal Environment Agency, more than 800 genetically modified seed species are currently authorised within the European Union. We Austrians have the right to know what is going on across our borders. I call on the Minister for Agriculture at this point and invite him to produce a comprehensive transparency in the import and use of genetically modified seed in order to be able to move closer to the principle of non-genotechnic agriculture. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Question 8: By the middle of February this year, I have already demonstrated clearly that Austria is ready for its own national measures. As I have already explained in the answer to question 6, I will continue to benefit from any legal scope for action in order to implement my own Austrian solutions for the benefit of Austrian consumers. I can assure you that, ladies and gentlemen, you will find an active contact in my person for the future parliamentary treatment of these peoples.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00069_d7e2868	I would like to thank the Federal Minister for answering the question. We are now entering the debate. It is known that there is a time limit of 10 minutes each in the light of the Rules of Procedure. In some cases, I am prepared for a shorter speaking time voluntarily. Mrs Ing. Langthaler. Speech time: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00069_d7e2895	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Popular desires are the response of the population to the failure of politics: in these two specific cases, to the failure of the Federal Government and your policy in recent years. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Rider: We have achieved a lot!]] Mrs. Federal Minister! If you are producing yourself here and talking very thoroughly and for a long time about your party's demands in the area of women, I am very glad that these are your demands, only: Who has led this ministry in the last -seven years? What party has it been that has been in this Federal Government for many years? And then why is there this popular desire? Is that not a cry of many women who can no longer live with the burdens? I consider it to be almost perfect or innocuous to try to give the impression, whether at party congresses or here in the house, that it is precisely in the week of registration for popular desire, that all the demands of this popular desire have long been implemented or wanted to be implemented. You can't even put in your own party a programme working group to which you bring enough women! Then you want to create equal conditions for women and men in the Federal Government and in this country? I consider your policy to be highly disbelief and I am very disappointed with your reply in the area of women's policy. My colleague, Mr Pollet-Kammerlander, will address it much more in detail. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would also like, Mrs Bundesminister, that you should have taken for yourself and made half-and-half-half of the campaign I have found very good, your predecessor, Dr. Konrad, Half of your speaking time devoted to the important concerns of women, but the other half would have used it to address the equally important concerns of genetic engineering people. [[Abg. Ritsmer: Did you keep the stopwatch?]] Mrs. Federal Minister! I take your answer from the fact that you seem to think that the demands of the genetic engineering people are completely exaggerated and not feasible, on the other hand, your own new head of the party, the Federal Chancellor, spoke on television yesterday as if he were an environmentalist of the first hour and as if the demands had been implemented long ago. – The exact opposite is the case! The answers you have given are simply wrong, Mrs. Minister. I'm surprised. If you answer Question No 7, it is not possible to impose a ban on release attempts because we are in the EU, that is simply wrong. Of course, we can innovate our Austrian genetic engineering law in such a way that we can introduce a national ban on possible release attempts in Austria. Of course, it would also be possible, for example, to hold appropriate discussions with companies that already have EU approvals for releases, in order to exert political pressure and, for example, to prevent the company AgrEvo from carrying out release attempts on six fields in autumn. You said in your reply – I liked it very well – that we women should have visions. I really wish you a vast bundle of visions and strength so that you can live through these concerns of women in your own party. But I would also like you to show the same visions and the same commitment at least verbally in the field of genetic engineering. Of course, we, all environmentalists, all the signatorys of popular desire, need at least your support from the Federal Government for fulfilling the demands of the genetic engineering people. They also say that it is a matter of your concern to allow labels to be made seamlessly. In this respect too, I must answer that there is a huge difference between words and deeds. Because if you wanted to, why didn't you do it? ==References== We have a regulation from your house on April, which is complete and completely inadequate, and which is determined by the study you have even prepared or commissioned, that the regulation is highly contrary to the intentions. By the Regulation on the labelling of genetically modified food containing 1. April has entered into force, you would have had the opportunity to show you that it is serious with a complete, clear and simple marking. Mrs. Federal Minister! If you think it is not possible to amend the food law in Austria in such a way that it is forbidden to produce genetically modified foods in Austria, I will tell you: It would not only be possible, but it would also be a huge chance for the Austrian food industry and the Austrian farmers. In fact, the products did not need any additional labelling. For then everyone knew, domestically and abroad: If I take a grip on a product produced in Austria, I don't need to look for a pickerl for long, but I can be sure that it's free from genetic engineering when it's produced in Austria when it's "Made in Austria". I cannot imagine a better and more complete label! It would be a huge opportunity for a poor agriculture with major problems and for a food industry with growing problems, not to forget the labour market problems in this area. We have put these requests in Parliament. ==References== In April, you will have the opportunity in the committee to demonstrate in detail whether you seriously mean it in your words with a view to better marking, or whether you have only verbally taken this position. Your colleagues will show the importance of their demands in the Committee's voting behaviour. We are asking this urgent question today because we want both people's desires to be very successful and the concerns of both peoples to be taken seriously by this House. They must not only be negotiated at one session and then disappear, but must be at the heart of the Federal Government's policy over the next few months. Finally, I would like to speak in the field of democracy. Much has been tried to raise the barriers to the signature performance of the population as high as possible and to keep the number of signatures as low as possible. In large cities such as St. Pölten, Innsbruck, Bregenz or Klagenfurt, only one vote was made available. People have to drive miles away, and in these cities – some of which I have been able to convince myself – they have to put themselves in snakes to sign. In many, in almost all houses in Vienna, no corresponding markings were made and no information was provided about where the signature service is possible. With many political announcements and bureaucratic obstacles, it was tried to make the signature performance as difficult as possible. For this reason, we are also proposing: [[Quoted print version removed]] At least one is to be guaranteed in the future: that the women and men who want to sign popular desires in Austria because they are not satisfied with the policy of the Federal Government, find the registration site and have the opportunity to express their protest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00069_d7e2985	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure and is under negotiation. Mrs Konrad is speaking. Voluntary speaking time: 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00069_d7e3009	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! If we are talking about this women's desire today, we are not doing this at the beginning of a long way, but in the middle of it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Above all, we women know that women have long wanted to be women, because we are women or at least their political daughters, and especially the socialist women's ministers have always supported this desire for women against injustice and disadvantage and have taken effective action against it. I mean, this is quite clear and clear, and so is the fact that many things have been achieved. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If we support this women's desire by the Socialist Group, so also because on the one hand many of his demands confirm the demands and plans of the Minister of Women and, on the other hand, those who still do not listen to what women really want shows what the so-called 'normal women' want: rights and not alms. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In women's desire, measures are proposed to eliminate the disadvantages that many women face and to which all women are structurally exposed. Since we have been dealing with the situation of women in our country for many years, we also know that these measures are necessary if we are to be serious about equality. We also know, of course, that equality does not begin with the access of women to the federal army or that they are being completed there. This is quite clear, and we women in the social democrats have always worked intensively to ensure that a whole network, with a whole set of measures, operates equality policy. If I talk about this equality package, or if the Minister of Justice has made it clear that she wants to link a package of equality, that is not new, because I have found a document from last year – "October 1996" is on it – after which we have made very concrete proposals for a package of equality and have also started a discussion on it. I would now like to turn to the right side of the house and also to the coalition partner with the question: Will you agree, for example, if we re-establish the request for the anchoring of the actual equality of women and men in the Constitution? Will you agree? [[Abg. Aumayr: Why aren't you women's minister?]] This proposal for a text has long been in place! The question is whether you agree. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Will you agree if the novelle comes to the National Council for equal treatment soon? Will you agree to use an equal treatment lawyer in all federal states? [[Abg. Aumayr: You must ask your party colleagues!]] It's wonderful! We can implement this immediately, the preparatory work has been done. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Will you agree if we in matrimonial and family law want to anchor the principle of partnership and establish that family work is divided between men and women? [[Abg. May. Stadler: Do you agree with coalition partners? Does your own party agree? Does Mr Khol agree?]] I am also referring to the coalition partner. Listen! I have just said that it is also about the coalition partner, but it is also about others. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Will you agree if we demand a right to part-time work for young children's parents until they enter school? [[Abg. Aumayr: You should have just demanded this at the party meeting!]] Will you agree if legal anchoring of the women's services is required? The documents are available. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: On the other hand, there were you in part-time work! This hypocrisy! I beg you!]] Dear Mr. Klubobmann Khol! You don't even know what the point is. Listen a little more closely! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The right to part-time work for parents with infants until they enter school is an essential requirement that you have always refused. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's not true!]] If we are already with you, Mr Klubobmann Khol, will you agree to promote the further expansion of all day and qualified childcare facilities, including with the provision of the federal budget? [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You just didn't bring a program together!]] Will you agree? All these proposals and other measures are necessary and included in this package of equality, whose implementation we are planning by the Socialist Group. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Thank you, Mr Khol!]] As you speak here, I must remind you that you have so far rejected all of these proposals and are at best about lip recognition. But that doesn't help women! The Minister of Women alone is clearly unable to implement these measures. We all know that women's policy is a cross-cutting matter and that it is a serious cooperation of all. [[Abg. Murauer: That's all wrong!]] If that is the case, then women's demands will certainly be easier to implement. We call for this concrete and serious cooperation! Finally, I would like to say that we will certainly take seriously the outcome of the women's people's desire to which I have specifically reported here – regardless of how many votes it gets. We wish, of course, that it be many. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00069_d7e3203	The voluntary speaking time was 5 minutes, the actual 7 minutes, and the business time is 10 minutes. That is why Mrs Konrad had the right to speak for up to 10 minutes. Mrs Rosemarie Bauer. She'll set the clock for 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00069_d7e3231	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We should not allow a discussion of women against women to take place again today on this very serious issue, namely women, women's affairs, women's desires. The introduction by Mrs Langthaler corresponded to a very jealous drama towards the Federal Minister. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP as well as with representatives of the SPÖ.]] There is a contest between the women and the parties, who could take this women's popular desire politically for themselves. I reject this because I believe that women are far too serious to compete there. In my view, and in my opinion, I do not think it is desirable to wish to have a political influence on women's issues during the voting process. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In principle, all analyses carried out in the direction of women's-people's desires are in agreement. We do not need to talk about the situation anymore, unfortunately it is too accurate. The objective of eliminating discrimination is also justified because there is legitimate dissatisfaction. The fact that this discomfort is being articulated is welcome, as is the debate that makes these things visible. From our point of view, it is an essential concern to help and support women – in addition to reducing existing injustices – to self-employment and independence. So our question was: Does this women's popular desire from its formulations actually support this objective? The central demand of this women's people's desire is one that always provokes us again and again, something we have been talking about for a long time, namely equal pay for equivalent work. This is the third point of the early women's movement, which was articulated more than 100 years ago. At that time, it was about equal opportunities for education and the right to vote for women and also about this point, namely equal pay for equal work, which has not yet been fulfilled. I have already represented the solution proposed in the women's demand years ago, but not at this level, simply the increase in salaries for women. That would solve the problem. I admit that I have done a great deal in this regard today. For if it were also very desirable to raise the lowest incomes – if a person who is working full day cannot live from his income, then this is a social shame; for this we confess, and for that I also acknowledge – I believe – and I want to bring it in – that no one has ever said that the assessment criteria for work are never taken into account compared to what women bring in. In today's times, when work and work have changed generally, one has to ask for this and sue it. It would also be an instrument of qualification and would help women not only in the area of low incomes, but also in many other areas to get into higher-qualified positions. Women have a lot to do with this. The evaluation of the work only by strength and physical effort will not be sustained in the long run. I would like to ask everyone to work for a change, because women do a lot of work, even those who do not consider work in our society, are therefore not paid and socially not rewarded. Dear Minister of Women! I am quite surprised that a large group of women are being neglected in women's desire. In the future, there will be fewer women who only care about the family, that will be the case during a certain phase of life, but one cannot say: That's all conservative, that's why we don't care!, but we also call for a better creation and consideration of that group of women who refuse to work and either for a period of time or full – as said – that will not be so many in the future – dedicated to family work. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In the case of women's people's desire, we therefore complain of the lack of measures, because the solution, namely that the times of child rearing should have a heightening effect, sets the status quo. It is new – and I very much welcome this – that care periods are also mentioned in this context. These could lead to real insurance from a certain level of care if you could purchase insurance periods or pay insurance contributions with the care money itself – that would not cost the state either. This would be an essential factor for women. Both, both care and child rearing periods – in the latter we should certainly have a lot more to consider – should not only be pensionable, but should also be pensionable, so that all women have a continuous insurance course and thus finally get a higher pension, because there is often the reason for the often bad situation of women. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I cannot agree with that, although the problem of women is known to me in this context, I would like to say that single parents should be preferred, which would discriminate against a very large group, namely married mothers. That creates inequality again. We have just tried – and that was painful – to eliminate this differentiation. For women, it is particularly important to have new fields of employment – from teleworking to the activities women are doing in the grey and black market today. I have read that the Federal Chancellor has spoken about the fact that classical employment should include other forms of service. Service Check and Homeservice are two suggestions we have from the ÖVP for this. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to say the following: For us, the tendency of this women's people's desire is to make women's dependence on men's dependence quite a different dependence, namely on the state, on the social network. As a responsible politician, we cannot guarantee that all that is required here will be realized and preserved à la longue, e.g. when economically bad times come again. The consolidation package should be a negative example. The following are still: Those who subscribe to this popular desire will not only send a signal – that would be far from enough – but we take these women's concerns very seriously, and those who sign this popular desire must also have a right to these demands being fulfilled. But those who know that these demands are not fulfilled in their present form, and yet who are animated in signing this popular desire, are negligent from my point of view.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00069_d7e3324	The next speaker is Mrs Aumayr. Voluntary speaking time: 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00069_d7e3345	Mrs. Minister! Mr President. High house! Unlike many other women, I am not disappointed by the women's policy of this government, because my expectations were not great from home. But I have to ask you, Mrs Konrad, because you have asked us for explanations of consent, the other way round: Did you agree to a year ago the reduction in the time of your leave? [[Abg. May. Stadler: Has she even carried it!]] Did you agree, Mrs Konrad, to the reduction in family allowances? [[Abg. May. Stadler: Has she even carried it!]] Mrs. Konrad! Mrs Bauer! Has You agree with the liberalisation of shop opening times, although you know that 80 percent of women are women? [[Abg. May. Stadler: Has she even carried it!]] Have you, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, agreed that Sunday work, at the expense of women and at the expense of families, will now be introduced? – You have agreed everywhere! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Now for genetic engineering folks' desire. Mrs Minister, you said that an import ban on genetically modified seed was not possible because we joined the EU. Complete labelling is not possible, it can only be done within the EU. If all of this is not possible because of the EU, I wonder if you have led the Austrian population into a dictatorship. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Cabaret strip!]] Have we completely abandoned our independence? I'm really wondering: What is the need for genetic manipulation in agriculture? Above all: Who does she need? First argument of colleagues from the ÖVP, also in your brochure, Mrs Minister: higher yields in agriculture. You should know, Mr Schwarzböck, that overproduction is a problem. Farmers are being forced to shut down areas. And that's where you want to use genetic engineering to generate even higher yields? In this context, I mention the billions of tax shillings spent on overproduction. Farmers even pay the token because they have price reductions of up to 50 percent, a 50 percent reduction in the price of cereals due to overproduction in the EU! That's what I'm really asking myself: What is a genetic manipulation in the seed to achieve higher yields?- Oh, my God! The second "argument": The hunger in this world is silenced by genetic manipulation. – The solution to this problem, Mr Schwarzböck, is a distribution question, but in no case a question of genetic engineering! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's it!]] Genetically modified seed, Mr. Schwarzböck, will reinforce this problem, because the manipulation of the seeds – which only large corporations can do – means that a few companies around the world have the power to supply food. We liberals have warned about the use of genetic engineering in agriculture from the first hour on. These companies have tough contracts in their drawers. American farmers must already sign such contracts. If we do not stop this development, there will soon be no other seed, then these companies really have everything in hand. And farmers are given the most important right, namely to produce their seeds on their soil and soil. That would mean the end of free farming. Farmers would be completely dependent. Mr Schwarzböck – unfortunately he has now fled – and all of you from the ÖVP: Gentification in agriculture means enslavement of farmers! Genetic manipulation means new property. 150 years after the farmer's liberation, do you stand for a new property?- Oh, my God! Who are you serving from the ÖVP?- Oh, my God! Why did you prevent the genetic engineering people's desire from being published in the chamber newspapers? Why didn't you turn it on? Which interests do you represent? The ones of Raiffeisen or the ones of the companies? Throughout Austria, the ÖVP politicians fail to provide the farmers with proper information. I'll tell you: Genetic manipulation in agriculture is as superfluous as a crook and as dangerous as all nuclear bombs combined!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00069_d7e3447	The next speaker is Mrs Dr Schmidt. Speech time: 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00069_d7e3468	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! I would like to make a few comments on the democratic side of this special session today. Mrs Petrovic! I also do not think that we have too much democracy, you are absolutely right. As far as I know, no one has said that this special session requested by you would be inadmissible. That is not the case at all. The question is only whether such a special meeting serves the matter at that time or rather the interests of a party. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I am sorry that I assume that it should serve more of the interests of a party, namely yours. [[New congratulations to the Liberal Forum.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Langthaler.]] Mr Langthaler! I'm telling you that, too, because of your speech. I am really the last person to believe that the Minister of Women must defend it, because there is no objective and no subjective reason for me to do so. But if you tell her that it was almost perfid – I think I understood you correctly – that she was making herself and pretending as if she would underline and support the demands of the women's people's desire, I wonder: What did you expect at this special meeting? Did you expect you to distance yourself from this? Then I wonder: What would you have answered her? Then you meant – You have to decide for one thing or another if you are already talking about credibility – why it has not articulated certain things in connection with genetic engineering here at least verbally. At the same time, however, you accuse her that her verbal articulations in connection with women's policy are almost perfect. That's what I'm really asking myself: What's that angle of vision you want to reach here? [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: This party has for years failed in women's policy!]] That's where we agree! Of course she hasn't done anything for years. The women's desire has become necessary because this party has failed. There we are completely in agreement! Only: What do you want? Then you reach with this special meeting – exactly in the middle of the registration week? You want to show that? Now I ask you: If the Minister had now made a blank statement on what you are going to do – apart from the fact that you would rightly say that this is unbelievable, then what should you do? – then at the same time it could be the signal to all those "outside" – under quotation marks – who are: The Minister has already promised that she will do everything, so I don't have to sign any more. – It would not be illogical if people were to think about it if they believed it. Then what do we let them talk about here at all? But if she is now quite clear as to why she is against one or the other, then she is emphasizing herself. Then I wonder: Is it not even worse for those who sign this popular desire if the Minister has already decided on something during the registration week and then has to look for a way to find out again because they are forcing the signatures to do so? What's that supposed to mean? That's what bothers me: the time of this special meeting. If you are rightly blaming the SPÖ for lack of credibility, I must also blame it on you in this regard. That's not the thing! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would now also like to address your proposals in connection with the introduction of a popular desire. I can personally support the motion for a resolution you have tabled here. They have mentioned two points that are really necessary, and it is an evil that, depending on whether you fit things or not, the government is dealing with the way it actually does. However, you have announced even more requests, which, as I hear, will be made by you, ladies and gentlemen. But I would also like to deal with Mr Petrovic's statements because I lack logic in that. We fully agree on another question, namely, when it comes to having to declare ourselves before the local office or before the notary for something, but in connection with election. And that must be kept apart if one is to reason honestly. In elections, it is so that we are fortunate to have a secret right to vote. The fact that I have to declare myself in support of a party that wants to act as a candidate party can rightly be understood as a fading out of this secret right of election. It is also used as instruments of the powerful. I think that this is an urgent need. But if you apply the same argument for popular desire, you make a mistake of thought, because in popular desire I must also declare myself in the performance of signatures, except you are so consistent – but you are not in your request – and say that the signature performance must also be kept secret among a popular desire. Only then would it be logical for you to stand up for the abolition of signature before the congregation. That is why I am saying this because I believe that I am simply guilty of the seriousness of the debate. The second point is that you think in the number that you should facilitate access to popular desire. I have nothing to do with this, because I too believe that the instruments of direct democracy should be strengthened. It is only necessary to look at how popular desires have been handled since 1964, and then we can see that this is not an objective need. That's not a need. Those popular desires initiated by declarations of support have far exceeded the 10,000 obstacles. Even that – I now call it so – "minorities" people's desire "per motorcycle" has also come to almost 13,000 declarations of support. That means presenting something here as a necessity simply disregards the image in reality. That is why I do not object, but I do not see at all the need to act here as if one were to make something easier, which is not perceived as a difficulty at all. On the other hand, I think it is very necessary, and this is the elimination of the privilege of national councillors and countrymen, but not because it was now easier for women's and genetic engineering people's desire to initiate it, but because it simply contradicts the spirit of an instrument of direct democracy, to create privileges for Members. This instrument should remain an instrument of citizens and should not be launched and taken into account by a party in whatever form. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] In any event, we MEPs have the opportunity to sign a popular desire – I did so yesterday in the women's desire, with conviction – but it is not necessary to calculate that process that serves to initiate in such a way that the signature of one of us is worth as much as 1 250 signatures of other citizens. I just think that's not allowed! It is precisely because of the way in which this instrument is increasingly handled – and the inflationary announcement of the liberals speaks a clear language; that is only a catchment light on the future – I believe that this provision, through which Members are treated privilegedly, is abolished. We have therefore tabled such a request. However, this does not come to the vote today because we want it to be assigned to the Committee. Let me say a few words about the two people's desires, which are the subject of this special meeting. My colleague, Mr Barmüller, will make further remarks on genetic engineering. In fact, I just want to explain why I did not sign this popular desire, unlike the women's desire. I believe that genetic engineering is also a very important thing. I have long considered the reasons for and against a signature and have come to the conclusion that more reasons are against it. I cannot identify with all the demands of both peoples, but I do not believe that what the popular desire is to trigger, namely to raise awareness of the state of consciousness, to this extent of genetic engineering, is not necessary, because this situation in the population is already present. That there is a need for regulation is clear and is not actually challenged by anyone. I believe that the ethical dimension, something I believe to be a key problem in this area, cannot be related in a popular desire. That is why I believe that the signal effect, which I am in a fierce contradiction with you, Mrs Bauer, which is based on the signatures of a popular desire for women, is even very important. I think it is negligent not to recognize this signal effect. For the saying that we are all for equal rights anyway, we know him and he has caused that indifference and discriminatory situation in which we are today. I would have liked to say something in concrete terms on one point or another, because I believe that there is a need for action not only on those points contained in popular desire. I do not believe that some points are necessary, but I think it is necessary to take action in the event of a change. I believe that it is necessary to bring the woman out of the dependency into which she is going when she is willing to start a family. That's the evil! By the way, it is an evil that you are still supported in another matter – not realizing what you are doing with it for the woman. I believe that it is a key problem to introduce the insurance obligation for the non-working partner. This is usually the case with women, and they would not have to argue for any social assistance, but would have a right to a basis if they were to leave the family association or if they were to separate themselves from the man. I believe that it is also necessary, in the federal constitution, to make a provision that the preference of women with equal qualifications – an important concern for me to underline – is in line with the principle of equality and does not contradict it. As long as we do not have this in the Constitution, we are in danger of all relevant measures being successfully combated at the Constitutional Court by those men who do not yet have this consciousness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00069_d7e3539	The next speaker is Mrs Kammerlander. Speech time: 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00069_d7e3560	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. First of all, a brief answer to my previous speaker, Mr Schmidt. She has asked what we really want to do with this special meeting. What are we really talking about? . We want to point out how the government behaves on this issue. It was yesterday the head of government in the TV studio who said: I am of the opinion that genetic engineering in our food has not lost anything, it is right what is happening against it! and he has pretended that this is, as it were, the government's closest concern. At the same time, however, it has been kept silent that this government has adopted a seed regulation, that this government has approved discharge attempts prevented by the NGOs, and that this government takes the view that Austria is unable to make national single channels. To this end, I must say: That is so unbelievable, and that is exactly what this special meeting is supposed to show! [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: It's the time!]] In my opinion, the people have a right to a parliamentary debate and a debate on the contents of the two peoples' desires. We have the right to point to the discrepancy between what the government says and what it does and to ask people: Look at what's really happening! [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: We criticize the choice of time!]] Another last thing about genetic engineering people's desire. You, Mrs. Schmidt, meant that there is awareness in the population for this. That may be true. Only: The government lacks awareness of this by far, and that is why there is this popular desire and why it is important that it is also signed. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt nodds with his head]] [[Congratulation with the Greens]] Then there shall be resuscitation and resuscitation. It's similar with women's people's desire. The latte is long. The Minister of Women said - and I am not surprised - that I am glad that she is standing for it. But it is of course our role and our task to say: Well, the women's minister says she's on it, but how does it really look, how did it look in the past? It is not only legitimate, but it is also politically right to say: What about the savings? It is justified to accuse previous women's ministers, unfortunately waited so long and to have found out that a German chancellor said that a man said: Thank you, that was it! instead of saying through a veto in the Federal Government: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, It would be better, in retrospect, for women's ministers to say: I am no longer a minister because I voted against it, but I cannot represent it! That's how it stays: The man spoke, and it was done that way. But now to the long list that has not been completed. I'm just taking out the little things. – colleague Silhavy, you can do it like that, of course. [[The speaker makes a hand movement.]] But who today promises that there will be a regional attorney in Tyrol in 1998? Who? The Minister of Finance? There I am curious. We'll ask him, I can only say, sure enough. We will also try to nail him there, and I hope that the two government parties will be supported, because that is what the Coalition Agreement says. It should be a matter of course that this should be respected and that this point should also be respected, as many others are, in which you, Dr. Khol, are much more emphatically behind it. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: I am pleased that you are defending the Coalition Agreement in this way! That's nice! I hope you will also agree to the implementation of the Coalition Agreement.]] Where, then, does the small law on equal treatment, which is still not in Parliament, remain the major law on equal treatment? Where, for example, is the protection of termination in the event of sexual harassment at work? What about the social savings we have repeatedly shown? Mrs Bauer! There come to you the crocodile tears, when you say there is a preference of the single parents. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: No, no, you're not a crocodile!]] I don't know what category I'm going to enter words like that? In tragically, I'm supposed to put this in order. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Khol! You yourself have celebrated the savings package and the cuts as a victory of marriage. I wonder where the single parents are preferred? They've been punished! You have to take a shorter time of leave, cuts in emergency aid and and and leave. Where is the preference of single parents? You will not be able to enforce your clerical world view in this way. That's my only consolation. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Then I have to hope for the Stadler!]] Let's stick to the savings. How does it look in the public service? It is eye-catching what the two coalition parties say that they will do so that women are better represented at all levels and in all hierarchies. We know there's the "glass" ceiling, so many of the women don't come, they stay on the track. Or: What about the savings in the public service? Who, then, remains on the line with the restrictions on public service posts? So by chance it is once again the women who stay on the track, and strangely you can't even prove it because it – you hear and marvel! - there are no statistics in the Ministries. It can hardly tell a ministry what was saved from last year on this occasion, where the then Minister of Finance announced a great deal of what will be saved in the public service. After a series of questions on our part, we Greens found that it was not possible to find out at all. What did we eat women's crotch for? I'm just asking. For what? We know from the women's representatives that there are countless single stories of women who are not employed, who are not taken over to the Federal Service, who cannot return to the service of Karenz, who find their job in any Bezenkammerl and no longer where they were. But as a government, as ministers and ministers, on the one hand, you say: We will save a lot, because it has now been consolidated! On the other hand, you cannot prove what this has done to the budget. But countless women – I will tell you again and again, and I will give you the examples of this, I will be annoying, I will have to pay you for making such stupidities. I find no other word for it.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00069_d7e3671	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I had already reached the border with the expression "perfidy". I really ask you to hold back in terminology. The green club, in particular, is always concerned with combating the proliferation of the language. That's true for you, too.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00069_d7e3692	Against the rabies of language and the rabies, especially the customs, when it comes to women's policy. That is what I am telling you, Mr President. But let's go on in my list. There are just as few savings in education, and I can't say everyone here because of the time limit. In the paper we were only able to read yesterday or yesterday that 27 000 students will have to come out without family support in the future. What do you think about how many women this is again? What do you think about the reinterpretation of sexual compatibility in these savings measures? I can give you the answer. It hits the women! Why is it the women? – Look at the education statistics! It is still true that 50 percent of women only have compulsory schooling. You can look at the statistics on how this development continues. How many women come to study? How many women do they even have until they finish their studies? How many women fall under the drop-out quota? And then look at where your savings take place and how the result looks! It looks simple and touching – I tell you that – devastating. Finally, I would like to ask you once again for this urgent question. Mrs. Minister! It is really praiseful when you say you are behind these demands, but you will be examined and you will have your great examination when it comes to the budget for the next year, about which the negotiations are now under way. I can tell you: We support you! We have also supported your predecessors. No one has failed that the Greens were against what they wanted. They have failed because they have not been able to enforce themselves in your own federal government. They failed because they could not stand up against the men in the Federal Government. And they have failed to ensure that the solidarity of social-democratic women and the solidarity of women in the People's Party towards men in the government has always been greater than with their own concerns. That's what I really want to convey to you today and here. As a new minister, you can still use credibility for your statements today, which your predecessors can no longer be, but the question is whether you will still be credible in half a year. In my opinion, the Social Democratic Party has no credibility anymore. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] After 20 years of women's policy, the Social Democratic Party has no credibility because it has no backbone and has not been able to enforce itself. I hope only one thing: that with the help of popular desire you can at least prevail to the extent that 50 percent of women are in your party at the next election. Then it would probably look a little different.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00069_d7e3744	The next speaker is Mrs Reitsamer. Voluntary speaking time: 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00069_d7e3765	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Kammerlander was once again able to present Austria as the developing country in the back of the list. I rely, however, that people do not have a short-term memory, that they know very well what has been going on in the meantime. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I also think it extremely worrying to ask for the opinion of a member of the government during the current registration period. Mrs. Langthaler, who in her urgent question has mingled both people's desires, here presented herself and proposed to the Minister how much speaking time she has measured with the stopwatch she has devoted to women's popular desire and how much time she has used on genetic engineering people's desire. I think this is very strange! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I think that it is positive to support extra-party initiatives from parties, but I think it is negative if one wants to attract this as a party. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Langthaler.]] No, we certainly didn't. The Minister for Women has clearly stated that there was financial and intellectual support in the run-up, but she never wanted to do so. This has not been done by the Social Democratic Party either. It would also be good for you not to do so. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In this debate on the two popular desires, we have the problem that the initiators have been pushed into the role of listeners that they cannot participate in the discussion, and I think this is unfair. If Mrs Kammerlander said that the reason why this must be discussed today would have been the German Chancellor's comments yesterday, I must say to her: Anyone who knows the Rules of Procedure of this House knows how to apply for a special meeting. I believe that this argument is certainly ad absurdum. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The Wabl signed it before Christmas!]] [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: We've seen this!]] I can also remind you of the law on genetic engineering law. During the negotiations on the genetic engineering law, the Greens questioned genetic engineering even in the pharmaceutical sector. Today, the medical application of genetic engineering is beyond dispute. But shattering fear and maximum demands, that's always their foreign exchange. The political actors should not give up – I say quite consciously – to be afraid of the population. This does not help the population, and this does not help the initiators of these two popular desires. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I think a good one has both popular desires, especially the genetic engineering people's desire: A discussion process is under way, and information is also being collected. There is something like a hollow debt if you want information, and that works very well now. However, genetic engineering cannot be supported or rejected on a flat-rate basis. In each case, the benefits must be weighed down. [[A few members of the SPÖ and the ÖVP were in favour.]] I am for controlled research and for a complete label as possible. If you look at the food research institutes today, you sometimes question whether the existing methods of analysis are fully exploited. They should do so in the future, and they should also work consistently to improve the evidence of genetic change. I also miss the differentiation between release, which is intended to serve the purposes of research – since I was last interrupted – and the sowing behind which quite commercial motives still have to be questioned. As regards liability issues, ladies and gentlemen, I can only say one thing: We have a product liability. However, there is a lack of plant liability. We have put too great expectations in the Environmental Liability Act. Not everything has been fulfilled, and we will certainly have to change it. However, in this debate process we want to include the initiators of popular desires.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00069_d7e3865	The next speaker is Mr Schwarzböck. Speech time: 8 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00069_d7e3886	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I noticed that, at least from my point of view, as the tenth speaker, I took the floor as the first representative of the male sex in this debate. I particularly ask the ladies of this House and all those interested in women's-people's desire to understand that I will deal exclusively with the concerns of the genetic engineering people's desire, for a single reason: because I have too little time from my point of view and from my point of view is very short. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: This is very informative!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Rarely has a subject been discussed in Austria in the fields of politics, society and media as emotionally, passionately and sensitized as is the case with genetic engineering, especially in recent weeks. I am therefore surprised because, when comparing the discussion in Austria with the discussions that are being held worldwide, I notice the following: No government of any comparable country is so close to the opinion of the initiators of popular desire to apply or prevent genetic engineering such as the Austrian Federal Government, and yet it is almost impossible to discuss this issue publicly. I believe that this is a comprehensive outline of the peculiarity of the discussion on this subject in Austria. I personally can live very well with the position paper of the Austrian Federal Government as a critic of genetic engineering in the food industry, and I have also, as a farmer and as a basic person, basically not a problem with much of the popular desire at all, either personally or as a representative of the Austrian People's Party or as a farmer's representative. [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: Only: Advertise you may not be in your newspaper!]] I will refer to this later, Mrs Langthaler. The issues of labelling and liability in the application of genetic engineering and the prohibition of patenting of living beings lead to relatively few different views in the discussion in the Austrian public. I have visited many events on this subject and have also followed their discussion and presentation in the media very closely. Essentially, the passions, emotions and awareness-raising are inflamed, especially by the fact that, in my opinion, this is the main point of genetic engineering popular desire, with political measures, with legal provisions, with the administration, that in the field of the food industry, especially in the field of plant production, where things are most immediately to be decided, Austria remains a GMO-free zone. Since the beginning of today's debate, I am no longer surprised by the fact that the Federal Minister has left a position which I have respected and shared so far, as I see in her personal position and in her position of responsibility as Minister of Health, many parallels to my personal position, and has for the first time expressed here in the debate or in her reply to the urgent question that she would work to ensure that Austrian agriculture remains free of genetic engineering. Since we have no differences in the medical field at all, in the animal genetic engineering sector – I say thank God – it is so clear and undisputed that we have no problem with this in Austria, there can be a discussion on genetic engineering basically only in the fields of plant production and the food industry. Mrs. Federal Minister! If you are in favour of genetic engineering freedom in this area, you are no longer in the position of the Federal Government's resolution and the position you have held for weeks and months, and then we must expect that this will result in further uncertainty and over-sensitizations. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Langthaler meant - and I have to comment as a farmer's representative - that the freedom of genetic engineering in the Austrian food industry would be a huge opportunity for farmers. It has said: 'For agriculture which lies below'. I would like to share some experience here from the point of view of my personal access to this subject. As a young farmer's officer, coming from the country youth and from the field of the educational work of the agricultural chamber, I have visited and even moderated a number of discussions when, in the mid-1970s or the end of the 1970s, we almost discussed the way to the organic farming from the point of view of conventional agriculture. I see a huge progress in the fact that we are no longer discussing these issues in a controversial way, but we are taking a very reasonable course, based on an comprehensible legal order, a clear code in order to be able to live and administer organic farming at all. However, I have to say today that we can only sell fractions of agricultural products produced on organic farms and associated with higher costs in a slightly higher priced or higher priced way than those produced from conventional agriculture. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] I have been given the numbers of bioorganisations, by the organic farming associations. Mrs Langthaler! Today, after decades of effort, we are so far to the point that of 300 000 tonnes of milk production on organic farms, 80 000 tonnes are marketable with price increases. I could now call you 10, 15 such sectors in agriculture. For me, it was one of the most shocking insights given the social awareness that 85 percent of Austrians say they do not want genetic engineering in the Austrian food industry, but we have basically found almost no market partner to date who would be willing to respect this route, which Austrian agriculture is prepared in part to go on its own responsibility. For me, then, the question of how far we are when we discuss a decision that is almost global, so emotionally and with a very strong ideological approach and then have to take note that a considerable part that represents this ideology is not even physically ready with a great deal to realize this ideology as well. I invite you to discuss this with us further. Then we are guaranteed to be able – similar to in other areas – to pursue and continue pioneering developments in Europe. Certainly, however, this will not go into a reality-stricken, sometimes even illusionist discussion process, which is reminiscent of wars of faith. I therefore hope that we will soon stop this kind of discussion and develop the high level of common ground among the critics of the application of genetic engineering in the Austrian food industry with the most restrictive position on this technology, which a government in the world takes – I read from the point of view of the Austrian Federal Government – in a scientific discussion in the interest of all those who fear this technology, and in the interest of all those who believe that under the most restrictive rules of application, under the greatest ethical and safety arrangements, this technology in ecological and in many other valuable areas – probably only in very small segments – could also help solve major problems of this world. I personally do not expect anything in the direction of solving the hunger problem at all, but rather something in the very, very many high-quality ecological issues. This certainly brought us further than the emotionalisation of a population that, most of it with a simple compulsory education like me, may not be able to evaluate this decision rationally in its own right and naturally.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00069_d7e3948	The next speaker is Mrs Haller. - Please, you have the floor. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00069_d7e3970	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In my view, popular desires are instruments for citizens to stir up politics. Two are currently on the signature: one against genetic engineering and one for women, and I think so. It is right to call for the reduction of the disadvantages of women to be more comprehensive than before, and it is also right to focus on the right to the realization of self-determined life for women, for for men this has long been a matter of course. The two savings packages of the government and the economic situation have been carried out largely on the back of women. But one thing you have to say: Above all, this women's popular desire is an admission by SPÖ, which for 27 years has been the leading force in this government that it has not gone on in women's policy that it has failed. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It's really weird and not right when the same SPÖ goes here and embraces and gathers with a party decision of this women's popular desire – probably only because of this to distract from these decades of failure. The fact that opposition parties are attached is very understandable and a command of democracy policy reason. Unfortunately, in these economically difficult times, most of the demands of this women's desire cannot be implemented at all. In view of the resulting costs, far beyond 50 billion schillings, they are more likely to be understood as a letter to the Christian Child, and I will look at Mrs Bundesminister, whether you are still as confident in half a year as you are today. I also believe that part of the demands, for example part-time work until schooling, the longer retention period after karenz age and the minimum statutory income of 15 000 s, are more likely to worsen or improve women's chances in the labour market. The same opinion is also the Federal Chancellor and Chairman of the SPÖ, and thus, Mrs Federal Minister, he is opposed to your statements. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Above all, the first point of these demands is really very peculiar, which reads as follows: Public contracts and promotions for businesses should only be awarded if women are represented at all hierarchical levels according to the population. Even if Mrs Rossmann takes this back a little bit now and says that at least equal opportunities plans should exist – I have read your statements, Mrs Rossmann, in the "feminista" – I still wonder how this should happen in the construction industry. In addition, this means quite simply a violation of international competition rules. And where does the political correctness so often quoted remain at this point? Mrs Rossmann and Mrs Prammer agree that in future they want to have the full involvement of minor employment relations in the general social security obligation. But they are aware that this will mean even less income for women with low incomes, because half of these contributions would be paid back by women. It will not really be believed that all of this will take over the economy. Further: Child rearing and care work are not pensionable, you want this only to have a high pension effect. They seem to have forgotten the unemployed women in this popular desire. Also on the farmers, even on the entrepreneurs you have forgotten. So this popular desire is not valid for all women. Unfortunately, a part – most of which I would say – of this content is simply unsolicited. On the one hand, you shoot beyond the goal, and on the other hand, you do not speak of a genuine freedom of choice for a self-determined woman's life. It's a lot of hunch in there, and I really think it's very, very bad. You could've done more of it.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00069_d7e4036	I now give the floor to Mr Magnette. Barmüller's word. Speech time: 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00069_d7e4057	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Although I will focus on genetic engineering, at the beginning of my speech I would like to say a few words about women's people's desire: As important as it is to keep in mind the economic impact of the demands contained in the women's desire, one thing should be recalled: If there is an economic structure that is built up in a certain way, then it also entails quite certain costs, and there are economic opportunities distributed in a certain way. If we argue today that we cannot afford equal treatment for women in the economic field, I can remind you that there have always been such arguments in history when it came to those who have fewer opportunities to equal those who have more opportunities. The southern states in the United States of America have also argued against the North States that they simply cannot operate their cotton plantations without slaves because their structure is so structured that it must be so. If that has an inner logic, it is far from fair, it is far from fair. As a legislative body, we must ask ourselves whether we want to keep the current distribution of opportunities that exists, or whether it is a political concern for us to change that. The Liberals are a political concern to change this, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I should now like to turn to Mr Schwarzböck, who has said that Mrs Prammer, in the field of genetic technology, is not at the stage of the debate within the Federal Government. But I could not hear from his remarks what is now the state of the debate on genetic technology in the Federal Government. Is it the state of the discussion that you want genetic engineering used in plant breeding? I would ask you, Mr President, whether you are actually aware that for the structure of agriculture in Austria, this means that we cannot keep the small-scale structure, the family farms. This is something that will lead to the depopulation of entire regions in Austria, that is something that will make many areas uninhabitable in alpine regions, that is something that will negatively affect our tourism, and that is something you have promised (a) before joining the European Union) not to want to go as a way, and what b) is missing any political logic. In Austria, it does not make sense to use genetic technology in plant breeding because it will only increase the dependence of farmers because it will increase our overproduction, for which we have to spend almost half of the EU budget in the area of the European Union at present to get rid of it. If we were to spend this money, which we are putting into the exploitation of surpluses, on the promotion of organic farming, then, ladies and gentlemen, we would have much more tolerable social consequences in the same monetary costs than it is at present. It is necessary, Mr Wurmitzer, to get rid of these old bands and take a new path. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wormitzer.]] Mr Wurmitzer! I'll tell you: Don't be afraid, not even as ÖVPler, there are other ways, for example those who propose liberals, and they also work. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] It is also a false hope that genetic technology will solve environmental problems. True is the opposite. If a company makes its own seed immune to its own herbicide, it does not mean that it will use less of this herbicide, which the company sells next to its seed, but of course one will use more of it. Have you ever considered, ladies and gentlemen, that perhaps large corporations could come up with the idea of saying that we are not only making our seed immune to our own total herbicide, but we are also making it vulnerable to the competition firm's herbicide in order to ensure that those who use its seed are actually fixed on this area and the farmers are brought into the dependence of individual companies? Why are these companies travelling in countries like Albania today to find new varieties and to open up genetic resources? But that is because, with our kind of agriculture, we are in fact doing a mono-culture that is harmful to ecological diversity and that in the long term will only bring instability to our ecological systems and will not ensure a stable sustainable supply. Therefore, the ecological problems with genetic technology will not be solved either. It is, of course, undisputed – and that is precisely true of the Greens – that the popular desire, especially the genetic engineering people, which has only been started with signatures by Members, namely the Green, of course, also pursue party-political interests, but that must not... [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: What? – 43 liberal signatures!]] So I got a different information about this. [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] Karl Schweitzer! Perhaps it is not properly represented by those – and there you have to agree with the Greens – who are engaged in popular desire. It may be. But no matter what. I do not think it makes sense, as has already been said by Mrs Schmidt today, to mediate through parties an instrument which is quite consciously intended to be an instrument of citizens, and thus, in fact, to finance only a cheap inter-election campaign. [[Congratulations on Members of the Liberals.]] Nevertheless, ladies and gentlemen, this is not to be taken away from the fact that there is a question that is justified and that needs to be dealt with. Here in Parliament, we need a debate on genetic technology again. This discussion has been completely interrupted by the adoption of the Genetic Engineering Act – but not because there would be no such requests in Parliament that could be discussed, but because a debate in the parliamentary field is simple and simply not desirable. That is why, while Liberals have not supported the introduction of popular desires, they have certainly supported popular desires because we want to have this signal effect. We also want to make it clear here in the House that this is an issue that needs to be dealt with, that we have to force a discussion about it again, and that the people's desires which are now being raised and, hopefully, strongly supported are an opportunity to raise this awareness in the house. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! No one has to consider the popular desires to be complete, 100 percent, correct to be able to support them and to achieve this political signal effect. The decision on the individual points must be taken here in the House, and we must not let that happen. It is necessary that we take the decision here, but then it is also necessary that we hold the discussions here. If Mrs Petrovic has only looked at her own proposals, which are already on the agenda for the Committee on Health, I tell you that the Liberals, too, have made a very comprehensive request for the directive on genetic engineering, but unfortunately this is in the Committee on Justice, and Mrs Fekter has not yet been prepared to allow or move forward a discussion in the Committee on Justice. I am surprised that this is not done by the ÖVP, but it is now. We need the political break-up of popular desire to revitalize the debate here in Parliament and to dispel Parliament from its rigidity, because these issues need to be re-examined. In conclusion, therefore, the positions taken by the Liberals on the three points of the genetic engineering people's desire in the discussion: When it comes to not allowing the sale of genetically modified food in Austria, we think it is wrong. We believe that, just as the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection's report on the technological impact assessment in the field of genetic technology calls for, there must be clear and understandable labelling, and then consumers should decide what they want to buy. This decision must be left to the consumer, and then you will see what is going on. But the products are to be clearly and comprehensiblely marked, all the products that have been proven to have been genetically engineered. This is something that all five parties of the House have decided. But to this day, ladies and gentlemen, it has not been enforced by the Federal Government. When it comes to not allowing the release of genetically modified organisms, we believe that this has been fulfilled, as long as the promise not to standardize liability schemes, which are also contained in this report by the Committee on Inquiry. It cannot take that to promise on the one hand, to decide the first part, to take the first step and to stop taking the second step and to say: We're working on it. It is true – and I am now saying this in the direction of my previous speaker – that we do not have the debate in Parliament, there is no such thing as it is. That's why I'm saying she's not wanted either. Ladies and gentlemen! The third point: No patenting of living beings, the Liberals also say: Yes, that's right! There should be no patenting of living beings, because this is a value decision. The genetic plan of living beings is not intended to be granted exclusively for exploitation. And you're not supposed to come with the killing argument and say, If there is no patenting, then there is no more research. It is true that the discussion could also be creatively about other means and possibilities. There should be no patenting, but who says that we should not allow licensing? Why not admit something in genetic engineering that corresponds to copyright? Ladies and gentlemen! Even then, economic profitability would be possible. It would be protected by intellectual property, and one would have the advantage that all discoveries in this area would really be published, and the ethical aspect, the dignity of every creature, which excludes the patenting of life, would have been preserved. And last but not least: The ethical aspect was hardly mentioned by us in the discussion so far. Ethics could perhaps help this in future discussions. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00069_d7e4136	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Stoisits. The speaking time available to your club in this debate is 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00069_d7e4157	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, who are here to blame us for making use of this special meeting and of the discussion on the two people's desires to capitalize on parties. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: That's it!]] [[Abg. May. Barmüller: Terezija, don't be so sensitive!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Barmüller, in particular, has rightly said that the political debate on these two popular desires – and I do not see any appreciation that is more important and which is less important – is necessary and should happen in this House. Yes, if not in times when these issues are also in public debate, should the representatives of the people also present themselves in a public space and a public framework such as this one? I regret the fact that we have to limit ourselves to spotlights today, so to speak, to 7 minutes, to 5 minutes, where two such essential and two fundamentally different topics are discussed and information is to be transported. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Barmüller.]] Mrs Klubobfrau Schmidt has been alongside others who have spoken against the fact that Mrs Bundesminister, who is by chance responsible for both issues, is reporting here and allowing for a deep discussion on this. Ladies and gentlemen! In short – because, as I said, it's only 7 minutes, which is why you can only throw thought-splitters into the discussion: The instrument of popular desire is so essential and so important to a country's sense of democracy that it seems essential to us – and this is also the subject of today's initiative – to make changes to this instrument. In particular, women's desire and the desire for genetic engineering are two examples where independent groups have come together, NGOs, so to speak, to take this initiative, and have shown themselves to be the weaknesses of the current legal situation: We need certified signatures for the opening procedure, and there is also no need for sound financial resources to be able to deal with it at all. In contrast, the political parties receive their election campaign sponsored by the citizens, the taxpayers. The citizens are placed in the way of stumbling stones in the introduction of popular desires. But it should be reversed: The citizen and the citizen should be encouraged to join forces and initiate a popular desire. That is why our second motion for a resolution goes towards facilitating the implementation of popular desires. I would now like to make this motion for a resolution so that it can vote: [[Quoted print version removed]] In turn, the principle must be reversed, then it is a really efficient basic democratic instrument. That is one of the concerns of this special meeting today, and we ask you to support it. But now I'm coming to the women's people's desire. I have not been surprised because I have already thought that the Federal Minister will confess himself here to women's policy. She did it, too, by signing the women's desire on Monday early, and by giving massive support to it in advance. It was interesting to have your answer, Mrs Bundesminister, which you gave us to our question 4, which was the most crucial for me in this catalogue of questions. This is the question of what the principles are, when it comes to money and the financialability of women's policy, because – and some have already said this today – lip confessions are not enough, it must also be the "Marie" vote! And we women are used to hearing a lot of demands whenever it comes to money, but the stock exchange is never easy, it's always closed. Mrs. Federal Minister! That's why your answer has been interesting and encouraging to me, so to speak, as a confession, but reality is quite another. If you have told us here that the first political priority of the Socialist Group is women's policy and that women's policy cannot be made a zero rate, then that is quite a contradiction to what the Federal Government and you, as part of the Federal Government – but you will have the opportunity, perhaps, to oppose yourself in the future – are doing so in large politics. In fact, it is only seen that the Maastricht criteria are met, with savings package I and savings package II, because there is only one effort: The highest priority is not, for example, women's policy and employment, but rather, on the contrary: The highest priority in this international and EU policy is monetary policy and price stability, which is the highest objective. In view of this, I do not know if you can enforce what you imagine for your future term of office, I do not know how you will reject this threatening savings package III – and the word "sparpaket" is that has triggered the initiative of the Independent Women's Forum for This Women's People's Desire. And you're right about that when you say the women are no longer going to deal with it. Now, women have taken a step to show that, even if politics does not care what women no longer want to do, they want to act themselves. That is why they have initiated this popular desire. Your task now is – and not yours alone, also the task of the House, in which laws are passed – to create the necessary framework conditions for the implementation of these confessions, so that they do not remain lip confessions. A test stone will be how much Austria feels connected with Articles 2 and 3 of the Maastricht Treaty and how seriously this contradiction to women's policy is ready to resolve. This is going to come more quickly than you believe, and the Intergovernmental Conference does not expect what you believe to be a failure to make women's policy a zero-rate can do to break through. That will be the crucial questions. That's why I mean today, looking back: From the point of view of the women's people's desire, we should have started this special meeting today with a statement by the Federal Minister for Finance, because he really has the power to make women's policy. I hope he's just as ready for it as you are.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00069_d7e4245	The motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member, Mr Stoisits, is in business and is included in the negotiations. The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Worm. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00069_d7e4270	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that we are discussing women's issues today is that we have to thank the initiators of the women's people's desire. [[Abg. May. Kammerlander: Today the Green!]] And one thing has already been done by popular desire: Women's concerns have once again become the subject. Land up, landab is discussed whether in the inn, on the street, in the family. The woman has met these posters or these living ligaments with women's demands everywhere. It was discussed, it was known. I myself, for example, was standing on the street last Saturday with employees, and the reaction to this popular desire was largely positive. I would like to briefly report on a group of young students whose comments have already affected me. These 16-year-old gymnasiasts have articulated themselves as if my grandfather would speak. They have announced what they fear: They're afraid of what's anchored in this women's desire: This is a question of distribution, this is a question of the distribution of power. To change the current situation is the target. I have supported this since the beginning, and this also supports our group. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Heindl, so applause!]] Ladies and gentlemen! But if, in the run-up to this women's people's desire is already being discussed here in the House, I am already afraid that there will also be a party-political calculation behind it. If the process of popular desire had initially been abandoned, the initiators would have had the best opportunity to discuss and participate in the discussion process, as one of the previous speakers has already said. Now I would like to say briefly that Mr Langthaler, by Mr Haller, criticised the fact that the Social Democrats had been in power for 27 years and had had enough time to bring about equality, which is why it would be unbelievable for the SPÖ women or the Socialist Group or the whole party to jump on the train of popular desire. But I would like to make it clear: If there had been no social democracy in Austria and Europe for the last 100 years, the points of popular desire would look quite different if such a thing were allowed at all. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] The name Johanna Dohnal stands for decades of riot in the male world and also stands for continuous improvements in the life situation of women in society. Again: Thank you for that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This tough little work has also continued the next Minister of Social Democratic Women, Konrad, undamaged, and she will continue in a continuum with the new Minister of Women, as she has said today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Especially in economically difficult times and with a coalition partner whose world view is often not as encouraging and friendly as I would wish, women are blowing an icy wind, if not hurricanes, and not by chance the employment rate among men has increased in recent times while women are falling. That is why it is now necessary that women no longer depend on benevolent men, but begin to show their desire for power and influence at all levels. Women's desire is now necessary. It is to be understood as the foundation of not only an emancipatory and independent women's movement, but also as a supremacy platform requiring equality. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That a more equal rights is possible is shown by the Scandinavian states, and in order to achieve that, all women inside and outside the party – I limit: all advanced women – must take one step. We social-democratic women – like many others in their sphere of activity – also have a lot of conviction in our group. I am convinced that, thanks to the work of many dedicated women, who are also present here, these people's desires will be a full success. Implementation is the more difficult part. It must be enforced by us women immediately. We will try and support it together with Barbara Prammer, our new Minister for Women.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00069_d7e4360	Mr Dr Schwimmer has now been reported on the floor. - Please. Voluntary time limit: 8 minutes; Overall speaking time for your group is 9 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00069_d7e4382	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mrs Dr Petrovic, as a political leader in the Green Group, obviously knew exactly what the background of the special session, the urgent question, is. Therefore, according to the motto "attack is the best defense" it referred to the terms that apply to it as in the first sentence of her speech: "Inflation of popular desires" and above all "consumption". She opposed it and said that it was not at all true to immediately betray herself in the next sentence I wrote down, because in it she referred to the Greens as the "speech tube" of these over-party citizens. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: This is collection!]] What's the other thing, Mrs. Dr. Petrovic, as a collection? [[Aufgaben bei der ÖVP und as well as Abg. Dr. Antoni.]] Collection on Thursday in the week in which the two popular desires have been signed since Monday! [[Abg. May. Kammerlander: An ÖVP representative understands nothing of this!]] You can't tell me – and I don't think anyone in this country is thinking about it – that you want to give more information to citizens who don't know if they're going to sign up if you do this on Thursday in the registration week. I might have believed it to you – because I always believe in the good in people at first – if you had done so before, if You would have said that this debate should take place before the registration week, before you see the opportunity to give more information. I would have believed that you would have put these questions in one of the meetings before the registration week. But you didn't do that for good reason, Mrs. Petrovic. It is not for you to secure the material information, it has been about uncertainty and disinformation to you with this special meeting and with this urgent request. I'm telling you what we're saying: We take every citizen and every citizen seriously, no matter how many signatures it will be. I also take seriously someone who signs a popular desire that does not reach the hundred thousand. It is a citizen with concern, it is a citizen with concern, it is a citizen with fears. [[Abg. You still do what you want!]] What you are doing, Mr Anschober, is not a policy aimed at taking the citizens’ fears through solutions and through answers, but rather at causing fears. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the Greens.]] Whoever deals with the green position – Mrs Petrovic, the laughter will pass you immediately – on genetic engineering for several years will see how unbelievable you are on this question. Today you stand out and speak of the national ban on production, which you want, but green voices also sound different – I quote –: "There are legitimate applications, there are sensible applications. Swimming has also called them." – I have the honour of being quoted. – "Where products that are necessary can be produced better, cheaper, the greens also demand that research and the economy work." And today you're talking about the national ban on production! [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: You don't care about genetically modified foods!]] Today, you and others in your group are talking about the national ban on release, i.e. practically the national ban on research. A green voice on it: "I do not think anyone here in this House, not even the Green Group at all, believes that research, including genetic research, can be banned, suppressed, banned, or prohibited." And today, Mrs Colleague, you are talking about the national ban on release, which only serves for research. You have to explain to people what you want. Today you're talking about the free genetic engineering zone in Austria. A green voice in the Genetics Act, Ms. Dr. Petrovic, said to the EU standard and to the EU directives: "Now the Austrian genetic engineering law does not reach the current European standards, especially in three areas." And you announced you'd fight for it. Mrs. Dr. Petrovic has said that all that has been said for producing cheaper and better products of a genetic nature, and Mrs. Petrovic has voted in favour of not prohibiting research. [[Abg. Head: Oh, that's it! Has she forgotten?]] Ms. Dr. Petrovic did not want Austria to decouple from EU development, but has criticized us for not reaching EU standards. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: That's why the popular desire is only about genetically modified foods and agriculture!]] Dear Dr. Petrovic! For me, with today's urgent inquiry and your position, you have left the path of honesty. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You just want to make other people forget what you once said differently. I believe that the Federal Government, the coalition and, above all, the ÖVP are going the right way. What can be forbidden in Austria is the cloning, the creation of transgenic living beings. The wool milk sauce or the monster mouse would not be allowed in Austria. We do not need a popular desire to do this, which is clearly forbidden by the genetic engineering law. This is forbidden in Austria. What needs to be monitored in Austria is the high safety standard. He's controlled by the genetic engineering law. You can talk about what is to be labeled in Austria. In Austria, we have a very large labelling requirement in Europe. To improve them is quite discussive. In addition, you are also opposed to your own positions, which you have made very clear in the creation of the Genetic Engineering Act. What we need is more European chords in the sense of our ideas, in the sense of our high standards. This has been confirmed by the European Parliament in its resolution, in which Austria, alongside Luxembourg, has been expressly mentioned positively. What we need is, as in the Council of Europe – not enough yet; I was one of the greatest critics – to be tried to create higher standards with the Bioethics Convention, which all have to comply with at the end. I think that's the way we should go. With pure demagogy, with pure collection and with a catch of votes à la Petrovic, à la Grüne, the problem of genetic engineering in Austria will certainly not be to be solved in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00069_d7e4506	Mrs. Dr. Petrovic has referred to an actual correction. Ladies and gentlemen, you know the Rules of Procedure. 2 minutes of time limit. Start with the presentation of the facts you want to correct. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00069_d7e4533	Mr President. Member of the Swimmer has just represented the thesis that I would have changed my opinion in the field of genetic engineering. [[Abg. Dr. Schwimmer: You can't correct a quote!]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] [[Abg. Dr. Schwimmer: You can't correct that, Mr President!]] [[Further calls.]] He said I had changed my mind. This is wrong. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: She stays with the same theses!]] [[Further calls.]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign the other day.]] I didn't change my mind on genetic engineering. She was and is the same. Better products were mentioned in connection with insulin. I am of the same opinion today. Research was the subject of medical research. I am in favour of a strict ban on agriculture and food at the time, as it is today. And with regard to EU standards, exactly the three points where EU law is actually superior to Austrian law have not yet been taken into account and improved.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00069_d7e4633	Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like You want to make a personal response? [[Call: He was addressed]] - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00069_d7e4662	Mr President. Mrs. Dr. Petrovic has said to me that I would not have properly reflected her in her change of opinion, and she has now claimed that she would have brought the cited quotations relating to insulin in connection with medical research. [[Inter-call]] [[Abg. Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign again]] Mrs. Dr. Petrovic! If You yourself do not know what you said, so protocols are available. Neither in the previous paragraphs nor afterwards there is talk of insulin. I did not quote this out of context, but literally just quote what you brought. Neither is there talk of insulin here, nor is there only talk of research in a single intermediate or secondary set of medical research. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Cite the place!]] On the contrary, they have also said that the key technologies of the coming millennium are here, an area of research which cannot be banned like any research. – You really said that, Mrs. Dr. Petrovic.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00069_d7e4725	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Schweitzer. Please, honourable Member, you have the floor. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00069_d7e4746	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Stoisits complained that there was only one spot light discussion on these two important people's desires. I must remind you that it was also the Greens who agreed to a circumcision of opposition rights by amending the Rules of Procedure, Mrs Stoisits. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You should not have forgotten that you have cut our rights here with your consent and that only more such mutilated discussions are possible. [[Abg. Böhacker: That's it! But then cry!]] Mr. Schwimmer! Genetic manipulation does not have much to do with research in the sense of her colleague Petrovic, especially with conventional breeding methods, because it is the first time that species borders are exceeded without any technology impact assessment. Profitable corporations now want to secure the return on their investments, and the ÖVP supports these profitable corporations against the interests of consumers and against the interests of the representatives of rural agriculture in this country. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The ÖVP simply builds on the principle of hope that no mistakes occur that no technical failures in connection with this genetic engineering occur. No one can say today whether changes have been made and their effects can be recovered, Mr Schwimmer. No one can say this today, but in particular here is the great danger of your desired release attempts. New organisms, the genetic components and compounds of which are unknown, cannot be controlled. You know that, the researchers know, and therefore we are against this technique and will be against this technique for so long as there are no answers to these questions. Who can guarantee the exclusion of a threat to genetic diversity, Mr. Schwimmer? Can the genetic engineering advocates, can you predict and describe all the secondary effects that can occur in 20, 30 years? – Of course you cannot, Mr Schwimmer, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Khol.]] Or is there – and I am convinced – hypothetical risks that are not affordable at the time of change, Mr. Klubobmann, because they arise only later? – Of course, there are these, of course, there are these, only nobody knows how large these risks are. Then you'll say again, there's only a small residual risk. We have already experienced how such a small residual risk can be. Ladies and gentlemen! In order to ensure that this so successful popular desire – I already know today that this genetic engineering popular desire will be a particularly successful one – I would also like to pay due attention to it and that it is not as much as other people's desires, which were also clearly supported by the citizens who may have received more than a million signatures, I would like to make a motion for a resolution which actually ensures that the Austrian people have a broad consent to the popular desire. [[Quoted print version removed]] So, ladies and gentlemen, there is a broad dialogue on such important issues in the public. I call on you to support this request accordingly.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00069_d7e4827	The motion for a resolution, by Mr Magistrate, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Schweitzer has just presented a statement of support and is included in the negotiations. Member of the Commission. - Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Schwimmer, for his excellent report. Mr deputies, you have the floor. 2 minutes speaking time. Please begin with the presentation of the facts, which you think should be corrected.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00069_d7e4857	High house! Mr President. Mr Schweitzer spoke directly to me about the efforts I wanted to make to release. He has assumed to me that I would have expressed myself in some way, whether today or sometime, for releases, which simply does not correspond to the facts. [[Abg. Böhacker: That's not a correction, that's an evaluation!]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] There's none of me "so desired release attempts." [[Abg. Aumayr: That's what the whole ÖVP wants!]] On the contrary: In a previously irregular area, the Genetics Act, which was drawn up under my chairmanship in the Subcommittee of the Health Committee, has for the first time introduced a regulation and an authorisation requirement for release tests. Only by this could releases be prohibited at all.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00069_d7e4912	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Maier. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00069_d7e4934	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank my colleagues, Mr Schwimmer, who has clarified the position of colleague Petrovic in reality. I can assure you, I'm joining this position. I also consider biotechnology to be a key technology of 21. I also believe that research in this area must be absolutely strengthened. But I would like to hold on to something more democratic. Unfortunately, Mr Langthaler is not here. She meant – I quote literally –: "People's desire is the expression of the population for the failure of politics." Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! I remind you of the foreign people's desire. If you were to follow your logic, we would have failed, and this popular desire would have to be supported. I cannot follow this argument, Mr Langthaler, in any way. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Schuster.]] I believe that a popular desire is a basic democratic instrument and a complement to our constitutional system. We must not abuse it, we must not take it. I mean the political parties, so I mean you who have tried to get the genetic engineering people's desire. This must be clarified with all clarity! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I am sorry that the genetic engineering discussion of the last few weeks has been so inaccurate. I read in the media that it would be a protest against the Federal Government, it should be a mark for politics. Today, some of us have already pointed out where Austria stands in this genetic engineering debate in Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We're leading! Luxembourg and Austria have issued a ban on Gen-Mais, not the Federal Republic of Germany, nor France. The MEPs of the Social Democrats and the Greens in the European Parliament have fought for tougher regulations in connection with the Release Directive or the Novel Food Regulation. We therefore need a clarification of the discussion. Advantages and disadvantages must be balanced, benefits and risks balanced against each other. Only then, if the benefits outweigh, can we verify the use of genetic engineering in food production and in agriculture. Perhaps some basic words about genetic engineering people's desire, and very critical words. I am losing the European dimension. I believe that many of these demands cannot be addressed to the national legislator alone, but they must be addressed specifically to Europe. The questions are as follows: How do we deal with the procedures in the European area? How do we keep it with the so-called comitology, with this secret science, where scientists meet in secret circles and then disclose their opinions that decide whether or not to place genetically modified food and products on the market? However, we must also deal with the effectiveness of national and international controls. What about it in Austria? What does it look like in the context of our research institutes? Are they able to carry out the relevant investigations in order, for example, to control compliance with labelling rules? What about research in Austria? – If biotechnology is the key technology of 21. At the end of the century, as Mrs Petrovic has said, we must do more. Then we have to take action to ensure that releases can also be made in the controlled area, and we Austrians have to focus on risk research. How many techniques can genetic engineering become a blessing or a curse for humans. It depends on their application, and for that we all bear the full responsibility. The Austrian consumers must be given a credible view that the benefit benefit can be outweighed and that health and environmental risks can be excluded. We need an objective discussion in Austria, and we, the Social Democrats, will lead them!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00069_d7e5012	Mrs Madl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00069_d7e5033	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I will deal with women's issues, but I would like to start by submitting a request for genetic technology, which reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] As far as genetic technology is concerned. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If I let go of all the explanations of the three women's ministers I have experienced so far in this House, they have a common sense: Except for food, I'd like to say. And if I am thinking of the person of the current Minister for Women Prammer's declaration and of the fact that she has for years also agreed to the women's tax package for women in Upper Austria and beyond, when she was presented with the place of residence of women in Upper Austria, she has rejected it and is now directing and holding a man of this district in Upper Austria, we know what we have to hold of the credibility of this minister. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Koppler: The acceptance in Upper Austria is very great!]] But not only is this minister unbelievable what is happening to her past, but also the other two ministers. I can still remember very well how former Minister of Women, Konrad, when she came out of the budget debate on reducing the leave allowance from two years to one and a half years, said: Well, you can't do anything, I can't stand it. End of the discussion! – And now a women’s people’s desire must take place, in which exactly that is what is required, that is to extend the karenz money back to two years. This popular desire is a witness of poverty for socialist women's policies over the last 20 years, a documented evidence of poverty. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Swimmling: What kind of witness can you present?]] We will probably continue this testimony for many years, because it is a loud knowledge of the lips that comes from these ladies and goes beyond the real and real problems of women. I do not read anything in this popular desire as far as women who really want to be in the profession are concerned, I do not read about equality between self-employed, self-employed women and farmers with the employees. The freelancers can't go to Karenz, they can't get maternity money. There is nothing inside about flexible and family-friendly working hours, but you have agreed to liberalise the opening hours. There is also nothing in it about tax deductibility of training during educational work. There is nothing in it about tax deductibility of household or child care. I'm not reading any of that! The Upper Austrian Government, in the form of Mr. Landesrat Hiesl, ÖVP – listen! – a study commissioned that 47 percent of the Upper Austrian women wish for two children and a third of the Upper Austrian women even – you hear and marvel! – wish three or more children. The fact is, however, that it is only – Mrs Minister, you should know that as the Upper Austrian, but You don't even care about the oberösterreichian women, otherwise you wouldn't have rejected the women's resort – 1.6 children per family in Upper Austria. [[Complaints with the liberals]] In fact, there are only 1.6 children per family in Upper Austria. Mr Hiesl has recently given a press conference on the basis of this study and called on the Federal Government to take measures to provide tax-free income per child, as well as a kind of education allowance, to provide monthly support for childcare. Since these demands have been in line with our ideas expressed for years now, we make liberals today with heads and submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! Show flag today and support this request!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00069_d7e5167	The two motions for resolutions tabled by Mrs Madl are sufficiently supported and will be included in the debate. The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Posch. Please, honourable Member, you have the floor. The speaking time available to you and your club is 4 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00069_d7e5192	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! The initiators of the Women's People's Desire are in an APA issue of 4. In April, as a latte for the success, the result of the popular animal welfare request was signed with 460,000 signatures. I mean, it's not just the initiators, but all the women who want this latte to be significantly exceeded, because as many signatures, or as much as the "pockets" – in order to formulate them sarcastically – women should be worth men and society already! [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Dr Gredler.]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The fact that the matter as such has its right not only proves an exact inventory, but also the many anti-female statements of the last days, such as by Mr Haider, which said: "I don't basically agree with stupidities. We don't want to organize a race of the Sufratten." Even if there is no direct discrimination in legal terms and anti-discriminatory provisions in collective agreements have long since been eliminated – that is the merit of social-democratic state secretaries, ministers and women; this is to be said here in spite of the frequent accusations – there is still a wide field to be worked out in the practical implementation and in the application of the laws until we come to a really the same situation of women and men. The truth is concrete, namely, economically concrete: If the average gross income of female workers, with the exception of officials, reaches only about two thirds of the male's income, I mean that the popular desire has its right. It is a fact that women, apart from men and women, are much higher in the low wage segment of the service sector, that women workers in the production sector are employed in low-paid sectors, that women workers on average have a hierarchically lower vocational training, which is why there is usually only a small proportion of female skilled workers. It is a fact that women in equal training must make more efforts to ensure that part-time employment is almost exclusively concentrated on women and thus the entire economic risk and social security is fully at the expense of women. The fact that women in senior or leading positions are equally rarer than men has already been discussed in this House several times and has already been pointed out several times that in this respect, unfortunately, times change slowly. That means: Despite an increasing approach to the formal level of education and formal qualifications of men and despite legal equality, women still have a substantially more unfavourable position. In the course of gender-specific job segmentation, women tend to be paid worse, working in more flexible areas, especially in typical women's occupations. Therefore, the demands of the women's people's desire for more justice are largely economic. When it was proposed that promotions and public contracts should be awarded only more to those companies which prove that women are represented at all levels of the company according to their population, I believe that this is just an approach. Of course, this is not going from today to tomorrow, but the submission of appropriate plans and stages could be an effective means of reaching this goal. If the initiators of popular desire for a minimum income of 15 000 S were criticized grossly and were referred to as unrealistic, I believe that the difference between women's and men's wages in Austria is still a third! – When some years ago the Austrian Trade Union Confederation demanded a minimum wage of 10 000 S for the workers and later for 12 000 S, this was, of course, only a revised objective. That is why I consider the demand for a minimum income of 15 000 S even if it cannot be reached tomorrow and the day after, for an excellent trade union demand. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Mr Posch! Is that what the farmers get?]] It is a fact that, in particular, the single parents have to make a very high percentage of the contribution to be made by the reduction in the amount of Carenz money for a year and a half in the course of the consolidation package. The need for a sufficient number of qualified childcare places is therefore all the more necessary. Some of the demands of this women's desire may not be reached from today to tomorrow, and some of them may not be eligible for funding immediately, but it is an absolutely right step in the right direction! That is why I am in favour of many men signing this women's desire!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00069_d7e5247	Mrs Povysil has spoken. - Please. Voluntary limit on speaking time: 4 minutes; Total speaking time for your club is 6 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00069_d7e5269	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Two hot topics this afternoon – two hot topics especially for me as a woman and a doctor! Two themes, in which the picture of a perfectly cloned twitter pushes me up. This living being unites the best qualities of man and woman, is insanity, all issues of equality and equal treatment would thus be from the table. - A horror vision? An ideal image? The advantages of a number of possible risks, especially in the field of genetic technology, are faced. Let's just take my subject area: No genetic technology – no genetically modified insulin, which is much better tolerated and cheaper; no genetic technology – no interferon for cancer therapy; no genetic technology – no protease inhibitor in AIDS therapy; no genetic technology – no progress in preventing hereditary diseases. – On the other hand, the risks: Abuse of genetic data, possible consequences in prenatal diagnostics, intervention in human inheritance, patenting of genes. With regard to the question of responsibility in genetic technology, opportunities and risks of their application should not be weighed down on a flat-rate and ideological basis, but only in detail and project-related! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Failure to use can also be a serious error. Ladies and gentlemen! On all these issues, politics was required. It was required to give science and research legal framework for genetic technology. And what happened? – There was no adequate information for citizens, there is no legal framework and no freedom for citizens to live as they wish. That is why I welcome this popular desire. I do not welcome it to incite emotional panic, nor to use it ideologically, but to see it as what it is, that is, a commotion of the citizen against unsuspecting, unvisionary politicians who followed the progress. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] As a desire of women, I also understand the desire for women's people, as a fully justified and necessary desire. A woman must have the freedom to take her life into her own hands and to find the same conditions as a man. This freedom of choice, for example, between family and profession, with or without family, should not, however, be ideological, and this presupposes, primarily, a substantial improvement in the social status of women. In my opinion, we women do not need a quota scheme or the promotion of farms to hire us! We're neither weak nor stupid! We are strong enough, we want equal treatment and no improvement! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I cannot therefore go along with all the demands of the women's people's desire. Some of the claims are covered, especially the financial objectives are desirable, but simply not feasible. It is true that women and men are equal, and that after 20 years of socialist women's policy, this is the meaning of this popular desire for women. I would like to conclude with a sentence from Goethe that said: What a happiness to be a man without equal! – I urge you to act as a political leader in such a way that we can say, here, that women are self-confident: What a happiness to be a woman!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00069_d7e5338	Mrs Rossmann is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Ladies and gentlemen, you still have a speaking time of 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00069_d7e5359	In the short term is the sausage. Mr President. High house! I would like to draw attention to point 6 of the women's desire. It says: Every person has the right to reconcile work and children. – The ladies who have initiated the popular desire are now not all present, but I wonder and I also ask some other Members here: Are not self-employed women people? – The self-employed women do not appear in any point in this popular desire! The blatant disadvantage of the self-employed woman in this Republic is not mentioned with a word! I would like to point this out by an example. If a self-employed woman has had a child, she will not receive a pension in the conventional sense. A self-employed woman receives a so-called weekly aid, a weekly allowance eight weeks before birth and eight weeks after birth – but only if she can prove that, in order to replace her work force, she employs a non-profit person in the farm. However, it is not possible to hire a person for the weekly fee, the amount is not sufficient. That is, de facto pays the woman to pay for the so-called weekly money. [[Abg. Silhavy: That's why you can't sign the popular desire?]] – Mr Silhavy, we will discuss this in detail in Graz. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Second point: I would like to maintain the disadvantage of the self-employed woman in the payment of the family allowance. Each woman in Austria is paid the family allowance monthly, but the self-employed woman receives the family allowance three months later. I wonder, Are the children of the self-employed worse than the children of the self-employed? Third point – this was set out in the Structural Adjustment Act –: The increase in the retirement age for self-employed women to 60 years in the form of an increase in the half-rate of the sale profit was confirmed only from 60. In the case of a person who is a resident of a Member State who is a resident of another Member State, the competent authority of the Member State of the Member State of the place of residence of the Member State of residence of the Member State of the Member State of the place of residence of the Member State of residence of the Member State of residence of the Member State of residence of the Member State of residence of the Member State of residence of the Member State of residence of the In other words, a self-employed woman can work before the age of 60. Don't go to retirement for a lifetime. Many women already wanted to finance their retirement in part with the sale profit of their farm. But this has not been possible since the last load package. [[Abg. Silhavy: That's why you can't sign the popular desire?]] – Mrs Silhavy! You have still not understood that entrepreneurs are creating jobs and not you!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00069_d7e5411	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Please put the final sentence to the vote. In principle, ladies and gentlemen, I find the popular desire to be supported in a number of points. [[Continue]] I cannot, however, sign it because some of the demands of the self-employed women do not exist in it and some other demands have been covered.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00069_d7e5459	As the last speaker in this debate, Mrs Gredler is speaking. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00069_d7e5480	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I can agree with the comments made by my previous speaker insofar as the text of the popular desire of these defenceful women is of course not complete. But I see that, because these women would have brought in a text that reads, for example: "One should finally implement equality!" then everyone would have said: No, no, no, no, What kind of text is that? – Once you start to provide details somewhere, you will of course be incomplete! I therefore find it unfair to justify the rejection of this text by saying that it does not take into account all aspects of women. If one wanted to take all aspects into account, one would probably have to draw up 120 claims, a list that would be too long and therefore difficult to read, could not be adequately assessed by those concerned and in which everyone found any pass that he did not like. I say it openly: I too have difficulties with some points, but I have to say, on the whole, that this desire should be recognized in so far as it is finally to be implemented within the framework of the possibilities that are now available in the Federal Government, Mrs Federal Minister. Mrs. Federal Minister! You said the right thing. It took a lot of women. – Since Johanna Dohnalheute is here at the gallery, I would like to thank her very much for bringing her to the whole whole thing – though sometimes too radical! [[Demonstrative applause at SPÖ as well as at the Liberal Forum towards the Federal Minister sitting on the gallery other than Johanna Dohnal.]] If you criticize – listen to me, I don't have much time! – that a minimum income of 15 000 S is simply not feasible economically, I have to admit, in principle, that, of course, it is not possible to implement such ultimate demands in such a way, but also to say: [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Talk more about it!]] In my opinion, this demand goes in the right direction, in the direction of basic security, according to which no one in Austria, whether man or woman, should be exposed to social distress. Everyone should have a pension claim, regardless of whether he has raised children, whether he has worked or was partly out of work outside, whether he or she has ever worked or not, that should not matter! There must be no reason for suddenly being subjected to social distress at an old age – that in a society that can otherwise afford much dispassion, which spends a lot of money on things that are actually completely absurd! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] The direction to be pursued in this respect is that work must be re-evaluated. Why are some of the work that men can do very elegantly with new technology simply rated higher than some of the work of women? – If, for example, I think of the cashier in the supermarket who has to do monotonous work in a tedious atmosphere, I think that one should come to a re-evaluation of the work. Mrs. Federal Minister! In order to achieve this goal, there is a huge effort by the entire Federal Government! Then the issue would be 15 000 S minimum income at last from the table. On the topic of genetic engineering: Yes, I also find the demands of genetic engineering popular desire partially exceeded. But it goes in the right direction, and the signal that there is now massive resistance in Austria has been observed in Europe. We have once had to resist massively. At that time it was about nuclear technology. We have been a lot of smiles, but we have nevertheless taken the right direction. It is true that genetic technology is not yet known what the results of research will be, what will happen at the end of these necessary research, what releases will happen, what the impact on the insect world will be, what the effects of pollen flight will be. It is only before we can say a final yes or no before we can make final decisions in the European Union. On this point I regret to criticise Commissioner Bangemann, although I very much appreciate him and think he is a very talented Commissioner, but he has approached the matter too uncritically, on this issue he is too open. I think it is really high time for Austria to show Europe: Attention! We need research priorities! – We cannot say: Austria should remain free of genetic engineering, because that would mean that all researchers should withdraw. On the contrary: I would like the Federal Government to put a focus on research, which can also be verified in the weighting of the financial resources it makes available for research.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00069_d7e5533	There is no more word message. The debate is closed. I ask you to take the seats. We are now voting on five motions for resolutions. First of all, we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Langthaler and Mr Comrades on the increase in the number of places of registration in popular desire. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution may give a corresponding sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. The second request is the motion for a resolution by Mr Langthaler and Mr Comrades on the abolition of bureaucratic outrages against popular desires. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution may give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. The next request on which we shall vote is the motion for a resolution by the honourable Member. Stadler and comrades concerning mandatory referendum due to successful popular desire. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution may give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Next, we shall vote on the motion for a resolution by the honourable Members. Main and comrades concerning the labelling of genetically modified products. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution may give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. Finally, we are voting on the motion for a resolution by Mr Aumayr and Mr Comrades on measures to promote families. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Short debate on deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00069_d7e5645	We are now entering into a short debate. It concerns the request of the honourable Member. Firlinger and comrades, the Court of Auditors of the Court of Auditors for reporting on motion 422/A by Mrs Rosenstingl and others for an audit carried out by the Court of Auditors pursuant to § 99 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure In June 1997, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to turnover taxes. After the end of this debate, the vote on the motion for a resolution will take place. We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that according to § 57 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes. The first speaker has a speaking time of 10 minutes for reasons. Similarly, opinions from members of the Federal Government or State Secretary should not last more than 10 minutes. First of all, I would like to inform the applicant, Mr Mag. Firlinger, the word. Speech time: 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00069_d7e5679	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Time-limitation applications are usually for urgent matter to be dealt with before it is done by itself. That is true in the present case. Ladies and gentlemen! Over a period of four to five years, three transport ministers have pursued a policy of public concealment with regard to the economic conditions of the railway tunnel at Semmering, which is partly under construction. Climate, Scholten and Caspar One of them was from the party: three ministers, ladies and gentlemen, who, in their statements, based on an opinion of the Swiss Prognoss AG, should now be well-known that the planning premises in it are very far from reality; three ministers who, with some kind of salami tactics, have misplaced their political will towards the formation of public opinion. . I am referring to Salami tactics, ladies and gentlemen, because one can easily understand how the initial reluctance of the Federal Government has gradually turned into a conditional yes and has finally developed into a clear decision-making process in the government. I can still remember how the situation was three years ago when today's Federal Chancellor and then Minister of Transport announced that the Semmering base tunnel will only be built if appropriate private funding can be put on the feet. – He spoke initially of a purely private funding, ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Minister of Climates has obviously been guided by the extremely "successful" tunnel project through the sleeve channel. – As we have seen, you, ladies and gentlemen, in the international daily press, have certainly been able to track international economic press. After it became apparent very soon that the purely private financing of the Semmering base tunnel is not feasible, the Minister came up with an idea which also comes from England, namely the model of mixed, private and public funding, the Private Public Partnership, in order to close the financing gap. However, the protest of several movements of citizens has increased significantly in the meantime in contours. As a result, HL-AG, the planner and founder of the new South Railway, apparently knew nothing else than the most militant speaker of this citizen movement, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Schuhböck, as a representative of the Alliance for Nature in front of the Kadi. So we have not been afraid of resorting to such a means. One who has difficulty in defending himself in court is brought to the pranger, torn in front of the court, so that he has only quite serious difficulties. – This is the policy pursued by the Ministry of Transport! This is the policy of HL-AG, which seems to have to do "better" than to carry out its tasks, for example, its planning tasks on the West Railway, it must tear someone in front of the Kadi! This is the naked reality, and I regret it, ladies and gentlemen, because this is not the way to make politics. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In the third phase, I believe that the decisive step was taken by the Federal Government in order to make the concealment policy on the Semmering base tunnel completely irreversible: In the course of the last Structural Adjustment Act, the so-called Railway Infrastructure Finance Society has been created – a tonguebreaker, but it nevertheless gets me through the lips very well, I get used to it – and here, Mr. Finanzminister Klima, who was still Minister for Transport at the time, has briefly stated that the funding is assured that the Semmering Base Tunnel will be built – punctually, without any additional restrictions! Since the spring of 1996, the question of whether at least partly a private financing model should be put on the feet was no longer relevant at all, ladies and gentlemen. This must be seen with all clarity! And the ÖVP, my esteemed colleagues from the ÖVP side, has watched as it was pulled over the table, she has not looked through this little game, but has participated more closely. Transport Minister Scholten was not really at home on transport issues, so he also preferred not to expose himself in this hotly disputed question, which was done by him, because if he had done the opposite, he would certainly not get it well. For this, the new Minister of Transport, number three, Caspar One, has nothing better to do than citizens' initiatives for incompetent, incompetent, incompetent, inadequate, unqualified, unqualified to qualify as unqualified, to cancel dates with tunnel opponents in the last minute, and to put all the warnings of the opposition into the wind at all. Also the recent survey, according to which an overwhelming majority of the population is across Austria against the construction of the Semmering Base Tunnel, seems not to be particularly interested in Mr Caspar. We will see what he will do with the outcome of this survey, how he will interpret it. In the end, it will probably still come out: The majority of the Austrian population is for this! - We know Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen! There are now three financing options, but it seems that these are not private participations with appropriate risk, but only because, in the course of the financing, the building company coming to the train replaces the banks and offers a foreign financing model. This is not a private financing, however, because all bidders will be required either by the federal government or by a company in federal ownership, by HL-AG or by the railway infrastructure financing company, and therefore it is completely clear who will pay the invoice if it becomes tight. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, it would also be necessary to clarify how the ÖBB can accommodate a cost of use of 300, 400 or 500 million schilling – perhaps 700 million schilling next year – in its calculation. I can well imagine the lively debate that will take place when the next dramatic increase in the price of travel is in the house – and to the cash register, the counterparts are again asked. It will therefore be interesting to learn how the user charge will be accommodated. I am convinced that once again the passenger who cannot defend himself will be left – just as in many other areas where a monopolist has been "put down" and the customer has not been able to defend himself. This too is the naked political reality of this Ministry of Transport. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Reichhold.]] In order to clarify all these accompanying circumstances, we want to deal with a special audit to the Court of Auditors. As this project is so controversial, we consider it necessary for it to be subject to accompanying control, even before the award of contracts. If you, ladies and gentlemen, of the other parties, which you have quite shared opinions on this issue, really want an objective procedure to be carried out here and assessed objectively whether this project makes sense or not, then now you will be taking the opportunity to vote with us. But if you don't want to, we'll pay you home to the voters.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00069_d7e5772	I would draw attention to the fact that from now on every speaker a speaking time limit of 5 minutes applies. Please, Mr Sigl, you are the next speaker.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00069_d7e5796	Mr President. The Semmering Base Tunnel is urgently expanding to deal with international freight traffic flows. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: We pay!]] Only with an attractive offer are actually market shares recoverable from the road, otherwise in the east of Austria there is an unexpected congestion in transit on the road, and there could be conditions such as on the Inntaltrasse. The "hole of emotions", as mentioned in the APA, has since 1988, since there is the electronic database, been dealt with 336 times under the keyword "Semmering Tunnel" and by early April 1997 under the heading "Semmering Base Tunnel" 412 times. This is important and useful only because the road builders also want to hit a rock tunnel through the Semmering. Mr Firlinger! I think you want to come to the "book of records" because today you will certainly have reached the thousandth APA issue on this project. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The Semmering railway tunnel is not only necessary to strengthen Styria and Carinthia in infrastructure, but also because modern economic sites are unthinkable without corresponding railway lines. The construction of the Semmering Base Tunnel creates a strong regional employment development for the construction phase. For this I also have an example at hand, namely the construction of the country house in the Lower Austrian capital of St. Pölten. There, too, there has been a positive expansion of the number of employees for years, unlike the other districts. The legal basis for tunnel construction is given. Now the Federal Minister has the legal mandate to grant tunnel construction to a building consortium quickly after the tender evaluation. The Federal Government, the state governments of Carinthia and Styria as well as the SPÖ Lower Austria and parts of the ÖVP Lower Austria have said about this project. It has therefore already been examined very much and very comprehensively. Several Federal Ministers have already discussed this project and have said yes to it. Ladies and gentlemen! The further course of the Italian railway is already largely geared towards high-performance route management and route management. It is therefore necessary to expand the part of the South Railway with the Semmering Base Tunnel on the Austrian side. It must be prevented from being questioned by individual interests of this overall project and thus degenerating the South Railway to a slow-track train in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! The S & D Group will therefore not agree to the "F" deadline request for all of these reasons which have already been mentioned for the time being.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00069_d7e5838	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kukacka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00069_d7e5859	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian People's Party, too, sees in this deadline proposal only the 99th unfit attempt to highly stylize the Semmering theme to a scandal. Mr Firlinger! There is no need for a deadline at all. Obviously, only your need to profile here is urgent. In the backwind of the "Kronen Zeitung" you want to catch some popularity. But it comes out at most populism and no popularity. Be sure of that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Don't insult the "Kronen Zeitung"!]] The wind of the Lower Austrian "Kronen Zeitung" blows from one direction, the wind of the Styrian "Kronen Zeitung" blows from another direction, and they meet above Semmering, and then there is a whirlwind. And you think you can benefit from this whirlwind, Mr. Cot. They want to take advantage of this vortex. But not with us, Mr Firlinger. I should like to make that very clear. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Headmaster.]] Two points have always been important to us. It can start a construction... [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Once for it, once against it!]] Be quiet, you know how it was with you and your Mr. Head of State regarding Pro and Kontra. The FPÖ, on the other hand, was Mr Firlinger, and the head of state was for this as long as he was head of state. You can't do it that easy! These cheap females have long been exposed, Mr. Cot. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: I was against it, also in the government! No idea at all!]] It's clear to us: There are two points. First: All administrative procedures must be completed before a start of construction can occur. But not all the administrative procedures have been finally completed. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: You should inform yourself properly once!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.]] The nature conservation process, for example, has not been finally completed in Lower Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Böhacker.]] Secondly, It was always clear to us that large-scale private financing of the Semmering base tunnel must be possible. All the Social Democratic Transport Ministers have always known about this. Now was the invitation to tender, and now let's look at the result. The Minister will put an overall funding on the table. We will examine this critically, and then we will make our final judgment on this tunnel. That is a proper and reasonable procedure, and you should join this reasonable procedure as well!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00069_d7e5971	Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Schweitzer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00069_d7e5998	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! There have been some who have learned about the Semmering-Base Tunnel project in the discussion that has been taking place for years now. Clearly nothing has been learned by the representatives of SPÖ and Mr Kukacka, who, contrary to better knowledge, which is represented in his party, for example, by the head of state Pröll, and who is still holding on to a line which is simply no longer worth keeping, because this tunnel is neither economic nor economic, nor ecological. For all three points mentioned, evidence has already been provided several times. I quote ÖBB director Draxler. In April 1997, Schilling said that at least 600 million Schilling would be required annually as an operating fee, so that this investment would be somewhat bleak. The pain limit for the Austrian federal railways, which are the only ones who will pay for it, is far below 300 million schilling. Mr Kukacka! There is a hole of more than 300 million schillings a year. This shows how pointless this project is at the moment from an economic point of view. Economically, it has never been expected, even if you have tried to add various studies. And that it is an ecological insanity, the water is broken down from the 26th century. In October 1996, it was strongly underlined. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Kukacka! A problem for a large part of the Austrian population is the fact that the financing effort for this project is shifting further investments in necessary rail links on the Sankt-Nimmerleins day and that a project called for by your party, SPÖ and all other parties such as the South-East spange cannot be financed for decades. They therefore assume responsibility for the fact that for many Austrians there will be no reasonable railway connection that many Austrians will have to continue to be commuters because they are not provided with an offer by which they could become day commuters. The South East Spange would make this possible, for example, for the Southburg and East Styrian areas. I think we should discuss this objectively and honestly. There would be far better than this Semmering base tunnel. The South East spange would be an example of this.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00069_d7e6046	I now give the floor to Mr Dr. Hazelsteiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00069_d7e6068	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Apart from the content of this request, we are debating today whether or not a deadline should be set here. It is now clear from this request what it aims to do: It calls for a Court of Auditors report before an important decision is taken. You can be for it or against it. This should then be discussed in the Committee. Ladies and gentlemen! But one thing, I think, is unacceptable to say: We agree on the urgency of this request. If we want to discuss whether the Semmering base tunnel is subject to audit of the Court of Auditors, then of course now. When the tunnel is semi-finished or largely completed, no such examination will conclude. You can, of course, still reject this from the committee's content. Ladies and gentlemen! I have heard the contributions to the debate today, and I must say: Too much expertise does not seem to exist in this circle. But we can then discuss and exchange arguments in the Committee. However, if we believe that this request has its power, then it should be discussed in time, that is, before irreversible decisions regarding the Semmering base tunnel. I am of course in favour of carrying out such an examination, including the HL-AG. What's bad about that? This can only mean additional information for those who have to take this decision. [[Abg. May. Stadler:... Special knowledge!]] – Mr Stadler! I know that I have much more knowledge in this and also in many other matters than you. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Where is the final bill for the Inntal Tunnel?]] They don't understand anything about building or closing accounts! Restriction: You're looking at what you understand, that is to polemize. We from the Liberal Forum will agree to this deadline request.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00069_d7e6143	The last speaker in this debate is Mr Anschober. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00069_d7e6164	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Of course, Mr Haselsteiner is right – I do not mean now, as far as Mr Stadler's assessment is concerned; I do not want to say too much – as far as the two points to be clarified in this request for freedom of movement are concerned. [[Call at SPÖ: As far as Mr Stadler is concerned!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] Mr Stadler! More let alone, that would be positive! The first point on this FPÖ request is the question of urgency. Mr Haselsteiner is right, and the liberals too are right: When, if not, of course, should the question be urgent? When, if not now, will the question "Court Court exam: yes or no?" Is it possible to decide? Of course, this request must be accepted if one considers it to be serious. That's not a question at all! Second point: Should an audit of the Court of Auditors take place at this stage: yes or no? Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would remind you of many, many debates on Court of Auditors reports. In countless Court of Auditors reports, especially in the construction sector, where the Court of Auditors was under investigation over and over again after the construction of the building, 50 million were diagnosed, there 20 million, because 100 million, there 200 million schilling losses. And in the final effect, we have been in the situation of having to say: After that, we can't do anything anymore, we can only try to get better in the next building. We can implement reforms in principle, but nothing can be changed about the actual loss of taxpayers' money. That is the point in the question of Semmering-basistunnel. We have many experts who, in economic terms, in terms of transport policy and in environmental terms, warn with strong arguments. When, if not now, should you check these warnings? When, if not, in a situation in which the price of a probe has gone from 440 million schilling to over 1 billion schilling? When, if not now, where have dozens of opinions in the field of geology and the entire estimates and calculations of HL-AG proved to be wrong? When should one examine, if not in a situation, in which well-known transport politicians and transport scientists find clear and clear arguments towards opposition to the Semmering base tunnel? When, if not now, where the economy of this project is most controversial? Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If this Parliament does not want to have a twettendorf effect again afterwards, if it does not want to assess and assess the project and does not want to take principle decisions only if it is actually too late if it does not want to regret a huge loss of tax money again afterwards, then the Court of Auditors must examine in time, and now. Mr Löschnak is already noding. But I think he means the time and the necessary conclusion. I will now approach this intuition and conclude by saying: We recognize the urgency of this request and see the need for the Court of Auditors to examine it now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00069_d7e6203	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. I ask you to take the seats. Ladies and gentlemen! We shall now proceed to the vote on the request, the Court of Auditors' report on the motion for a resolution (Doc. 422/A) by Mrs Rosenstingl and others, on the conduct of an audit by the Court of Auditors pursuant to § 99 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, a period of up to 10 years. In June 1997, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to turnover taxes. Whoever is in favour of this request for deadlines, I would ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00069_d7e6244	With regard to the negotiating items and their allocations, I refer to the written communication submitted to you at the beginning of the meeting. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00069_d7e6431	I would also like to say that at today's sitting, the self-employed were brought up with applications 429/A to 434/A. Questions 2234/J to 2271/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council, held on Wednesday, 16 May. It is expected that it will be called up in writing on April 1997. The sitting is closed.
