ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e2368	Ladies and gentlemen! I can invite you to take a seat. I'll open the 57. Meeting of the National Council. The official protocols of 55. Meeting and the 56th session. Meeting of 14. January 1997 has remained inconsistencies and inconsistencies, they are considered approved. For today's session day as prevented, MEPs are reported Dr. Preisinger, Mag. Frieser, Mag. Chief, Mag. Trattner, riding and aumayr. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e2405	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the resolutions of the President of the Federal Government concerning the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following statement: The Federal Minister for Health and Consumer Protection Dr. Krammer is appointed by the Federal Minister Dr. Schools represented. I would ask you to take note of this. Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e2432	We shall come to the current hour, which the Green Group will be discussing. Vignette scandal In the case of a request, the Commission shall The first speech is by Mr Anschober. His speaking time is up to 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e2465	Mr President. Minister Farnleitner! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! From the very beginning, we Greens have not made any hazelnut out of what we think of the introduction of a vignette in Austria. However, this was before the term of office – that is to say, you have to say honestly – of the current Minister for Economic Affairs Farnleitner. We have always said that, in our view, this vignette is, among other things, a transport policy and ecological idea of the very first kind, for several reasons. Through the Vignette there is a massive shift from the motorways to the districts, to the federal roads, to the transit areas of the towns, villages and municipalities of Austria. The Ministry of Economic Affairs itself predicts up to 20 percent. Perhaps this interests your voters, you obviously only to a very modest degree. This shift to urban areas naturally reduces the quality of life, the environment in cities is being burdened, and the number of accidents is increasing. Secondly, many drivers are rewarded by such a vignette system and people who consciously use the car are punished for the same amount of money they pay. Thirdly, it has been a purely government fund-raising action, although it is now clear that at the beginning it has not been taken into account the fact that the introduction of the Vignette on the other hand reduces existing toll collection to the extent of some 400 million schilling annually. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Even in the Ministry of Economic Affairs, there were experts who warned of the introduction of the Vignette in Austria, as the Austrian situation was not comparable to that of Switzerland, according to a study published in 1993. But even as the main critic of the Vignette, ladies and gentlemen, we have not believed that such a miserable idea can be implemented so devastatingly. This is actually a piece of art that the Ministry of Economic Affairs has created in its responsibilities up to the special society and the ÖMG, that is, the Austrian Mauterstrichtsgesellschaft. For example, the professional blunders of Ö 3 – Oliver Baier and Consorten – try to present themselves daily with the "Vignette Man" as Satire can look out. However, the real satire is much bigger than they are able to present cabaretists. This is actually a situation in which reality overtakes the satire, but a situation that is not really fun because it goes at the expense of the taxpayer and the taxpayer. All of Europe is now laughing at the Austrian Vignette chaos. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The contract for the Vignette did not go to the lowest bidder within the framework of the companies that came into the final selection, namely to an Austrian company with Austrian jobs. Austrian quality companies were excluded from the tender without real justification, only with the argument that there was a best bidder, a printing company in Chicago, whose quality was not attainable by competition. How does this quality look? – First of all, the quantities of packaging have not voted, which has led most of these 10-packs to contain not ten vignettes, but sometimes three, sometimes seven, sometimes 17, sometimes 19 vignettes. The scale of the letter has been balanced and counted. Minister! Is it true that one of these major counting companies, which has carried out this counting process and weighing process, has now come up with a requirement of about 3 million schilling for this narrative? Second thing: They have been printed in some areas. From October there is a report by ASG, Alpenstraßen AG, that 450 000 pieces were initially held back because of optical defects. Third area: The pickerl is actually no longer a pickerl in many areas, but a "slipper" because it doesn't hold if you stick it to the windscreen. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! You have to do this, too. I wonder, Is it really a best offer when the pickerl becomes a "slipper"? The last section: There were too few vignettes, which is now known. 5.5 million were written out, awarded and printed. Meanwhile, you want to reprint 5 million pieces. And what did the Austrian Mautering Society say yesterday? – She’s excited about the big demand for the pickerl. Now the market laws have been passed. You heard a picker handle. That's why Austria's hearing toll vignettes? That's why every Austrian driver – "Motor driver" – has probably four, five, ten pickerl at home, because they are scarce because you have to "beat". Or, as I believe rather, we have calculated ourselves incredibly in this case, Mr Minister, by 23 million schilling, which is now supposed to cost this new printing order for the 5 million pieces. I wonder, Minister: Where's political responsibility? Is this form of exclusion – and this is significant for this Austrian privatisation route – by creating an Austrian toll company that is the subsidiary of the two special companies, but which, according to the Supervisory Board Protocols, has no budget and according to the Supervisory Board Protocol – I quote literally – is "a purely legal entity outwards", privatisation and exclusion à la Austria? So you can't clean yourself up politically! There you, Minister of Economic Affairs – the Ministry of Economic Affairs, have made massive pressure on the Ministry of Finance towards the enforcement of this tolling society – are politically fully responsible. In the political sense, you are the "Vignette Man" of these days, Minister. In the political sense, you have to ensure that this affair, that this chaos and that this scandal are clarified very, very quickly and without any rest, and that above all the necessary consequences are drawn. The ÖMG, the Austrian Tolling Society, is not only responsible for the Vignette. Actually, one should believe that is a relatively safe matter. The vignette is technologically not absolutely a high-tech product, I would now be careful to formulate. This company is also responsible for the introduction of electronic road pricing for the truck. We now know that the introduction of electronic road pricing for the truck is already delayed for a year and a half, that the introduction will not take place during 1998, but at the earliest at the beginning of 2000. This also means a follow-up cost of 2 billion schilling. Minister! You have to give the following answers today. First: What personal consequences are being drawn? Secondly, Will you be able to guarantee that the truck road pricing is actually realized in 1998, as the legal order is? Thirdly, Who assumes liability for the existing damage? Fourth: What total damage has already occurred? Is it true that the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Finance, has already complained of 15 million schillings via financial procuratorship? Fifth, you open a bottle How does the reform which you want to draw and draw as a consequence from this series of scandals in the context of road construction in recent years? I just remember: Arlbergstraßentunnel, Pyhrn motorway, Karawanken motorway, East motorway – and now the Vignette history. This is a scandal series in which it is not possible to make a sham reform behind the ministerial walls, but in which you personally bear the political responsibility for finally having a reform in this House, which prevents cheap bidders from passing over, that questionable contracts are awarded and that taxpayers are sluggishing taxpayers. You personally bear the political responsibility for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e2557	The Federal Minister has made a statement on the matter. His speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e2578	Mr President. High house! First of all, I am grateful for the opportunity to be able to describe briefly in this House the processes around the motorway vignette. However, I would like to point out that this information is available to the Ministry and is reported by the road companies. I do not wish to go ahead with this in any way with the audit I welcome by the Court of Auditors. In view of the many incomplete and partly confusing media reports, I would like to begin briefly with a chronology of events. They will remember that the 1990 Labour Convention agreed to take measures that should lead to more cost-effectiveness on the market. This was based on initial considerations on the importance of the high-level road system. Both in the Government Convention In 1994, as well as in that of 1996, it was established that a comprehensive "road toll model" should be introduced to finance the gap closure and conservation measures in the high-level road network. In the summer of 1995, my predecessor set out the following way: first: Introduction of a vignette as a transitional solution; second: Introduction of a driving power dependent toll in a second step. Due to the tight timetable, action at several levels had to be taken at the same time. At the political level, clarification talks were conducted mainly with the Federal Ministry of Finance. A draft law was prepared and an EU consultation procedure followed. At the same time, the selection of a consulting firm was carried out by my department to draw up a basic concept. In mid-October 1995, preparations were suspended due to the resolution of the National Council and the subsequent re-elections, as the decision to follow the toll plans had to be pending. Following the introduction of the project "Vignette" into the coalition agreement of the new government, the work was quickly continued and the Federal Road Finance Act was passed in the National Council as a budget accompanying law and on 30 July. ==References====External links== ==References====External links== January 1997 – it should be made clear here that no transitional period was foreseen – was set as the beginning of the toll obligation by means of vignette. Furthermore, it is established that road pricing for trucks should be introduced during 1998 and for passenger cars from 2001 onwards, provided that collection by electronic equipment is possible at that time and that a reliable toll development is guaranteed overall. On the basis of the high time pressure, the necessary consultation procedure with the European Union was made immediately after the decision of the Government template in the Council of Ministers on 1 January. It was launched on 4 April 1996. The Commission's opinion was originally expected at the beginning of June, as the Directives provide for a two-month period. Since the European Commission did not respond until the end of July 1996 and asked Austria to introduce a weekly vignette for passenger cars in addition to the planned two-month vignette, substantial changes to the basic concept had to be made. In order to introduce the vignette with specified date by law 1. At the end of July 1996, contracts for production, distribution and communication had already been made. High house! The amendment of the Federal Road Finance Act required by the EU wish was made in the form of an own-initiative proposal on 19 March. It was introduced to the National Council on 1 September 1996 as no earlier treatment was possible due to the summer break of the National Council. ==References====External links==* Official website ==References== Nevertheless, and despite all the problems, the sale of the vignettes in Germany and abroad was only possible two days later. On the basis of the legislative innovations, the exemption regulation was adopted in December 1996 – on 10 December 1996. On 11 December, in accordance with the resolution adopted by the National Council and the Toll Regulations, December – announced and created all legal conditions for the timely introduction of the vignette. To the special companies and to the ÖMG: High house! In principle, it must be stressed that it was considered by the Ministry to be the target of putting the entire initial work into control from the outset. The law adopted in April 1996 already commissioned the road companies ÖSAG and ASG to organise and collect the time-dependent toll. From this point on, the Ministry of Economic Affairs' activities focused exclusively on dealing with fundamental legal problems, contacts and coordination with other ministries, as well as cooperation in a governing body, which was set up to decide on fundamental issues. All other competences were exercised by the societies entrusted by law. Mr President. High house! My influence on the Bundesstraßengesellschaft is based on the share law. This restricts the influence in contrast to a GmbH in which the Board of Directors is linked to the owner, essentially to the convocation of the Annual General Meeting. In the context of how a uniform procedure and the production of clear responsibility of the two federal road companies with regard to the tasks entrusted to them can be ensured, the road companies considered the model of an ARGE in the form of a civil law and the establishment of a subsidiary. The decision was in favour of a subsidiary, with this principle being decided at the Annual General Meetings in June 1996. The registration of the Österreichische Mauterstrichtsgesellschaft – ÖMG – was made in the company's book on 25 July. ==References== Its purpose is to produce, sell and settle the motorway vignette and prepare the road pricing. The ÖMG then entered into all contracts concerning toll concluded by the road companies until then. The management staff of the ÖMG are made up of employees of the two road companies, who have already been able to contribute to the society in a very specific way. This clear legal structure should also ensure the mutual cooperation of road companies which have a clear competitive behaviour. I can now come to the orders relating to the vignette. In the context of the Vignette, four major contracts were awarded by the road companies to outside companies: first consultation, second production, third distribution, fourth communication. The production was awarded by the ASG and the remaining three orders were awarded by ÖSAG. After its creation, the ÖMG entered into all these contracts. First of all, to consult: The advisory mandate was designed in two stages. First of all, it can be used to create a basic concept. This basic concept was awarded by the Ministry of Economic Affairs by way of a two-stage procedure under ÖNORM to the Munich company CMG. The order amount is net 1.9 million schilling. As one of the few consultants, the company CMG was able to refer to the relevant toll know-how from European project work, for example, on Stockholm and Dutch toll projects. Building on the basic concept, the company CMG was commissioned by the ÖMG to carry out the project work, as due to the urgent procedures resulting from the short schedule, the specific expertise and personnel resources of this company had to be used. The order amounted to 2.5 million D-Mark, i.e. about 18 million Schilling. To production, High House. The award of the Vignette production took place in the course of a two-stage selection procedure with prequalification under the Federal Procurement Act and an EU-wide tender. Stage 1/Preselect: This was about the exclusion of tenders which could not, or only partially, offer the advertised service. Stage 2/End selection: Supplement to the best bidder on the basis of the contract law. A total of six companies came into the final selection, including the producer of the Swiss Vignette, each of which had at least one Austrian ARGE partner. The production itself, Hohes Haus, would have been at least to a significant extent abroad, in Switzerland, in the Federal Republic of Germany or, as at present, in the USA. In the award procedure, the complete Austrian-owned ARGE Swarco Futurit/American Decal/Bayer emerged as the best bidder. Order volume: 34.8 million schilling. In principle, it must be made clear here that the Austrian contract law does not depend on the cheapest, but on the best bidder. The aim of this orientation is to select the best appropriate tendering conditions. The criteria for determining the best bidder and thus for the best performance of the task have been clarified in the tendering conditions. In particular, quality characteristics, safety features, delivery capacity and price were considered as award criteria. In the present case, the following criteria for awarding were therefore decisive in addition to the price: the experience and the delivery speed, the security of counterfeiting, where it was a matter of not repeating the Swiss example where 10 to 15 percent...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e2672	Federal Minister! The speaking time is a scheduled time! One, two minutes exceedance or you'll report for a second time.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e2688	I will speak for a second time, but I will do so briefly. The security of counterfeiting is essential because we know from Swiss experience that 10 to 15 percent of fake vignettes are in circulation, which is a big problem for fiscal policy. We have tried to ensure that distribution is as broad as possible. I can give it back later. Mr President. High house! It is striking for me that companies that make large profits with the distribution of this product are among the main critics of the entire project. For communication: Whatever you do about advertising is too little or too much if you put a new product on the market. I should like, Mr President, to say something about the problems that have arisen in particular, but I would like to conclude by stressing: Ladies and gentlemen! In the field of public administration, it must be clear that this can only have the purpose of establishing clear responsibilities. I have ensured under the Stocks Act that the Supervisory Boards of both companies have immediately convened special meetings. We have received their report. We have been in contact with the Court of Auditors' office at the same time to work on an audit. I am glad that this has been caused in the meantime. Following these results one will have to speak clearly about the consequences.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e2730	I would like to thank the Federal Minister for the opinion. In the course of the further debate, speaking times are now 5 minutes in a uniform manner. Mrs Petrovic is speaking. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e2757	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! A lot of answers, Mr. Federal Minister – except for a long chronology – you have not given us now, especially as to what is going to happen. [[Abg. Auer: You didn't want to hear!]] [[Abg. Schuster: That's not true!]] They have been based on reported information. They have been based on media reports that you do not think are appropriate. I, Mr Federal Minister, want to tell you about your own experiences, and I believe that these are experiences as they have done many Austrians. This pickerl or – as my colleague Anschober rightly said – "Rüscherl" was not only in Western Austria, but almost nowhere in Austria to get smoothly. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: That's not true!]] When I tried to buy this pickerl myself around the turn of the year, I was in traffics, at gas stations, depending on how the operators were recruited, only met with great cheerfulness or anger. What has been given to me in the address of the government parties to embassies there, I cannot repeat that here in this House, because then the President will no longer be able to comply with orders. That we have once again managed to make Austria an international mockery is really sad, but what is even more important, Minister of State: [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Mühlbachler]] In fact, we should not only think on, but also on, cost-truth in the direction of transport and also in the direction of meaningful privatisations. This shielding of the Vignette regime has, on the one hand, completely discredited a sensible principle of transport cost-truth – from the plant, namely, how this pickerl is designed, but much more because of its implementation – and on the other hand, the privatisation philosophy has also been severely damaged. In this area, Mr Federal Minister, privatisation has lost nothing. The cost-effectiveness of transport is one of the most important environmental tasks. There is no doubt that there is market failure in this area, so the State would be required. It is an absolutely unreasonable excuse, Minister of State, if you say you would have handed over the companies that have their responsibilities – I ask: Where? – and you are limited to share law. Firstly, Mr Federal Minister, that is not true. I ask you: What has Mr Hessle done in the field of tolls, in the field of awarding this contract? What are the two members of the Advisory Council who belong to your place of business? - Turn the thumb? Or what is their task? Secondly, If one already realizes that this is not a private task, but rather a cost-truth of transport by the State, then a regulation must also be found in which you do not say afterwards: I didn't know what to do. It would be your responsibility to ensure that a sensible system is introduced within the framework of state administration, including with strict official liability. Federal Minister! They have, at the same time, abandoned the rule of law and efficiency. They have accumulated all the disadvantages of different systems at once. If it continues to be so that new millions of contracts will be distributed without a tender – that is, a clear breach of the laws – then I believe that you will probably not be looking for the next contracting partners in Chicago, but probably in Palermo, according to the motto: [[Intervocations at SPÖ and ÖVP]] "This government alone against taxpayers." Ladies and gentlemen! Obviously you already have the job creation in mind, but this seems to be only a job creation in the area of cabaret and in the cabarets. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Oberkabarettistin!]] Those who will benefit from the creation of jobs are probably the team of Ö 3, because it is probably not only the feminists who ask when the "Vignette Man" will finally follow the "Vignette Girl". In my opinion, we still need many such central figures. We also need the "Employee Contract Man", the "Court Fee Man" or the corresponding "Girl", and if this goes on, then the Cabaret will no longer comply, then we probably only need the "Chaos-Man" or the "Chaos-Girl" for the federal policy. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: The green cabaret!]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I'm appealing to you: Let's not run in the next such scandal! Clean up this scandal first! This task belongs to this inefficient society removed! And an appeal to the President and the President: We don't have the same chaos in travel fees! Because I think we should also create jobs elsewhere in Austria, not only in the cabaret.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e2866	The next speaker is Mr Eder. He's got the floor. Same time of speech.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e2888	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that it is now enough of the cabaret and we can get back to the matter. The legal basis for the introduction of the obligation of vignette in Austria was already established in April of the previous year by a decision of the Federal Road Finance Act. First technical implementation problems, namely the delivery of the Vignette from Chicago, were already in place at the end of 1996. I just remember the false breakdown of the ten packs, which had to be re-counted, which has led to considerable additional costs, which are not yet included in the costs known to us. On a dominant topic, which has occupied both domestic and foreign media for a number of weeks, the problems have then become when introducing the obligation of vignette. ==References== In December 1996, there were numerous complaints that the toll-vignette was not in stock. Finally, at the beginning of January, it was clear that the weekly vignette was almost completely sold out, especially in tourist regions. In the media reports, the award of Vignette production to Chicago was critically questioned by Alpenstraßen AG. We therefore expect, ladies and gentlemen, from the Minister responsible for Economic Affairs to make a comprehensive statement on all the problems and issues that have arisen in connection with the introduction of the Vignette. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, I do not want to address the circumstances of the award of contracts by Alpenstraßen AG, because these will certainly still be fully examined by the Court of Auditors, but simply explain that I think the causes of the difficulties have been behind for a few years and that there is really the real dilemma to look for there. In my view, this is a reason why the Minister responsible for Economic Affairs has failed to implement the reform of the management of the high-level road network. The problems in the implementation of the time-dependent toll would certainly not have occurred if not two societies were responsible for it, but only one. There would have been clear competences and responsibilities, not the now fixed division of tasks and division of competence. The merger into a company has failed, among other things, to resist the leadership of today's Alpenstraßen Aktiengesellschaft, three years ago, from which the two German road companies were now established. Ladies and gentlemen! I hope that the experience now gained will be sufficient for the relevant Minister of Economic Affairs to take as soon as possible all the necessary measures to ensure efficient management of the high-level road network. These measures are urgent in order to avoid similar barriers to Vignette launch in the future. I would remind you that the legal date for the installation of the road pricing is 1998 for the truck and 2001 for the passenger car. I very much share the view of my predecessor that only a driving power-dependent delivery makes real sense in the environment. Another delay in the introduction of road pricing for trucks, as already announced by Alpenstraßen AG, contradicts both the intentions of the law and the political agreements. We therefore expect you, Minister of Economic Affairs Farnleitner, to have a clear opinion on this. In order to reform the management of the high-level road network, my group has drawn up and presented direction-setting concepts. In essence, our concept provides for the introduction of road pricing in the course of a reorganisation of road companies. The breakdown of the debt of the ASFINAG, which was taken into account for the construction of the high-level road network, should be taken into account in the budget for the reduction of public debt. In the case of mergers of ASFINAG, i.e. the financing company of Austria's expressway and motorway AG in the East and Alpenstraßen AG in the West, this new company must, according to monetary union, be able to cover at least 50 percent of its costs from its own resources. Ladies and gentlemen! However, as these criteria are already met by the revenue of the existing tolls and the vignette, the Minister of Economic Affairs is now required to take all measures to implement the merger. But above all, he is also responsible for the fact that in the future there will no longer be any such problems and loss of revenue for the budget. One of the main tasks of the Minister of Economic Affairs will be to convince the countries of the sensibility and necessity of the merger of road companies. Cross-scores of the leadership of Alpenstraßen AG – I am familiar with some of these letters – I do not think that it is a goal-leading and, after the problems in introducing the Vignette, it is not very credible. I can therefore ask you, Minister of State, to accept these important things in the interests of our people. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e2961	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kukacka. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e2982	Mr President. Minister! High house! Of course, there have been shortcomings, mistakes and shortcomings in the issue of the introduction of the toll vignettes. Of course, we also believe that all these errors should be identified and eliminated and all inconsistencies fully clarified. Ladies and gentlemen! The Court of Auditors is already working in this direction, and I am convinced that if it has resolved all these questions, then what is to be blown up here as a big bubble of soap is going to be what it is, namely, as a bang frog, with the big catcher on top of it only more than the big inflater on top of it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Let us leave the church in the village and stick to the facts! First, the entire implementation was handed over to the Austrian federal road companies and their subsidiary. The idea behind this was the right political motto that there should be a breakdown of tasks which the public administration does not necessarily have to carry out itself. In this case, the Federal Minister has complied with the law, because we have decided to do so here in the High House in the Federal Road Finance Act. [[Abg. You've decided!]] Ladies and gentlemen! In principle, the distribution has also proved successful, as the administrative costs for this vignette are only 0.3 percent of the revenue. This is a Europe-wide top performance, because in Switzerland and France it is much more expensive, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] There is also a lack of international experience. Nowhere has such a complex system of decoration been introduced, for in Switzerland, for example, which deals with the beautification through a vignette system, there is only an annual vignette. If you use the Swiss motorway for just one day, you have to pay an annual vignette, ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian system is much better and much more just, and we should confess to that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In Austria, the needs of drivers have been addressed, and a total of twelve different types of vignette have been introduced. Of course, distribution problems may arise. But this also has to do with the decision here in this House, ladies and gentlemen, because the problems with the pickerl began with the late call for the EU to introduce a weekly vignette, with the legal conditions only to be created by law, and the decision-making took place... [[Abg. Arbitrators: We are probably also to blame that it does not pick!]] Mr President, I should like to thank I do not want to conduct and pool party policy here, but please consult the managing director of this tolling company. The Commissioner should not be very far off from you politically. That is what I would like to say if you believe that you can qualify the matter here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Live calls at SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The invitation to tender for the vignette was politically correct and in conformity with the law. They also know that the EU-wide call for tender was necessary and that it was therefore not possible to award this contract alone in Austria. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Parliament is not to blame!]] And the fact that the best bidders have been commissioned will, I am convinced, prove to the Court of Auditors. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! All defects that have appeared and may still appear will also be dealt with in accordance with the Product Liability Act. The producer must cause damage to all product defects, to all delays in time, and therefore there will be no financial damage to the Republic of Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In addition, ladies and gentlemen, there will be little left of the overdue accusations. In addition, I have already said this, the Court of Auditors is on the train. He'll check everything, and we'll leave him the last word. In no way should we further scandalize and panic, because it has already resulted in enough psychological and political damage to Austria's reputation.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e3091	The next speaker is Mr Rosenstingl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e3113	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank Mr Schieder for his interlocutory call at the beginning of my speech to Mr Kukacka for having clearly established from the pult that there is also a red and black proportion of the motorway toad company. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the coalition parties! You cannot speak out, because you have here in Parliament jointly passed the law on the motorway toll. And this law says how the distribution path will be. It is therefore clear political responsibility. Federal Minister! You have read us well how the process was, but you cannot escape political responsibility. They are the Federal Minister responsible for this and are therefore involved in the fact that Austria was ridiculed with the introduction of the toll-vignette abroad. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! It is in need of clarification why Austrian bidders, who have made some cheaper offers, have been passed. There is a need to explain why companies have been excluded from offering without any real reasons. It was not even told the entrepreneurs who were excluded why this happened, but they were usually satisfied only with the sentence: We cannot approach your offer, your offer. It is, however, the Federal Minister, the first-class Austrian companies, who have great experience in the production of such vignettes and glues. Ladies and gentlemen! We have to look at what is going on in Austria in such offer-making. It is amazing for me, for example, that the rubbleless were printed by a society in Montreal, as if there were no companies in Austria that could do this. I was also amazed at the fact that the head of state representative of the Styria Schachner-Blazizek did not let the brochure for the 1996 national exhibition be printed in Austria, but in Slovenia. – I ask: Is it really true that there are no Austrian establishments that can and are also favourable to this? . I know that it is not so, and I believe that in this area there are serious errors of the public hand. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! Already the tendering process was exceptional. In the first phase, which served to establish possible suppliers, it was not objective. At the time, there were disadvantages or advantages of companies. As I have already mentioned, some companies have been unjustly excluded from offering. Federal Minister! Since you have political responsibility, you should have intervened with all the means available to you, even if this is perhaps only possible through the Supervisory Board. They should have been involved in this area, since Austrian companies were unfairly eliminated. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Herbs.]] Mr President, I should like to thank It is very interesting that you do not work for Austrian businesses. We of the liberals will always work for justice in Austria and, secondly, for the Austrian companies. I take note that this is not your concern. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! They bear political responsibility for these incorrect actions that have taken place in connection with the tendering process. Due to the incorrect operation, by favouring a provider, the vignette production became a debakel for Austria. The production of vignettes was granted to a company that could neither deliver the necessary quality nor fulfil the extensive delivery order. The damage caused by the ridicule over the holiday country of Austria cannot be remedied. Federal Minister! They should have made sure that competent professionals were entrusted with the introduction of the toll-vignette. But they were unable to meet this need. We expect you to be informed and a comprehensive report here in this House.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e3212	The next speaker is Mr Barmüller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e3233	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The SPÖ should take very seriously the words of Mr Rosenstingl, as regards the concentration on Austrian companies, because he speaks out of experience. In fact, neither Mr Meischberger nor Mr Haider have had their election videos made in the Czech Republic and once in Hong Kong. That wasn't a good idea, I agree. You really shouldn't ignore this experience. [[Abg. Ing. Meischberger: Where do you get this? – They lie as always!]] But, ladies and gentlemen, if the bar-on-handler-Meischberger now through intermediate calls...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e3260	Mr Meischberger! For the term "lying" I must give a call for order. I ask Mr Barmüller to continue.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e3281	As far as political scandals and the evaluation of these political scandals are concerned, I would like to stress that the Liberals are not of this opinion. For we do not consider all the processes surrounding the Vignette to be a political scandal, but rather the simple continuation of the inability which we have already found several times in this Federal Government, including the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, on such issues. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Eder has made a gentle statement here of the criticism which his colleague Parnigoni has formulated much more strongly. He also asked the Minister of Economic Affairs to take the necessary consequences because this approach – and Parnigoni speaks of the inability of Minister Farnleitner – caused a massive damage to Austrian tourism. It is not easy to disappear, Mr Kukacka, to say: Now we have to play for time, the Court of Auditors is already checking, we are going to find out all this mercilessly. – It is not a question of merciless detection, since the errors are clearly apparent, but rather of consequences being drawn, and not only from the speaker’s mouth, Mr Kukacka, or from Mr Eder: Let's not wake up, the mistakes have already happened. We're really sorry, the next time we're gonna do it better. Ladies and gentlemen! We are sure that the road pricing, which from an ecological point of view would be a very targeted measure, will only be needed by you to get the Austrians into the bag. You will not do anything but push forward on the part of the budget recovery, which you promised on the part of expenditure, Mr Lucisch, but did not succeed. That's what you're gonna have to confess. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lukesch.]] Mr Lukesch! Mr. Federal Minister Farnleitner has also brought about a chronology of origin. He quoted federal laws and said that already in the 1990 Labour Convention there were the first considerations. Of course, you have to ask: Why, then, has it not been possible – we have already done so in 1997 – to carry out a smooth process? In addition to this quotation of the federal laws, which was a very formal one, I understand, because when it comes to someone who has been socialized in a large chamber of Austria, I assume that he is quoting only very formal things, a political chronology, and this actually begins with the abolition of the purpose of the mineral oil tax in Austria. Mineral oil tax was a tax imposed on the financing of road construction. The great coalition, however, has abolished this commitment of purpose, the money is encapsulated in the budget, and you have no longer had money for the financing of road constructions. Then you said we had to do something with a toll. – This is the political chronology that exists in this matter. The fact that we have a toll today and therefore also these problems is due to the fact that the budget implementation has not been made fair, not proper, not transparent. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] And this, ladies and gentlemen, by Mr Farnleitner, cannot be erased from the table by saying: I'm sorry, we've distributed this, I don't have any influence on this society anymore – we want to depoliticize it. The question of the proportion has already been raised. It should be added, however, that two representatives of the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs, of course, are sitting on the company's Supervisory Board, namely the ÖMG. In addition, Federal Minister Farnleitner, there is such a thing as a debt of choice. If it is true that the vignettes are not properly packed in the 10-packs – once they have 6, once 4 and the other time equal to 19 or 17 pieces inside – you could have told the people that they should buy letterless for the 550 S in the year. It can't be that you choose people who can't count up to ten or put something into the world where the quotas don't vote, and then you clean yourself up and say: I'm really sorry, but how should I have known? – This is not the way in which, as we believe, a party that is always acting as an economic party in Austria. You can't say you don't have anything to do with it either. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] A non-bureaucratic solution has not been found either, Minister of State. I can quote the ÖAMTC so that it is not said that the opposition is exaggerating. What happens if someone sticks his vignette to the windscreen and holds it – contrary to what usually happens – but unfortunately the windscreen breaks? [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] It is then, Federal Minister – that is my last sentence – that the drivers are asked to put the receipt of the old vignette into a envelope with the receipt of the new vignette, together with the invoice of the company that repaired the windscreen, and with the piece of the windscreen on which the old vignette sticks, and to send it to the ÖMG to replace it. – That, ladies and gentlemen, cannot be economic policy in Austria! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e3379	Mrs Langthaler spoke; then the Federal Minister. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e3400	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I start my remarks with a passage from a letter from a company that applied but did not come to the train. This passage is significant for the image we have received through our research, through the information we have received from the companies, from the experiences they have made in the context of the call for proposals around the Pickerl scandal. The company writes: "As an export-oriented high-tech company, we deliver more than 70 percent of our products abroad and are subject to the strongest local competition there. Activities such as they are constantly taking place here would be unthinkable abroad, namely that a state-owned company can repeatedly turn out to be cheaper offers from local companies, award contracts to unqualified companies, and have no consequences for them." [[Abg. Großruck: Which company is that?]] As it was said – I heard this in the course of the debate, just as my colleagues spoke – this was a banal problem, and was asked why we put it this way: It is absurd, because this supposedly so "banale" problem shows exactly the system errors that have existed in this area for many years. How many times have we discussed errors in the field of road construction, in the field of special companies operating there, in the development of officials from the economic sector and employees in these special companies when it came to awarding various contracts? How many times have we discussed possible illegal party funding here – especially with regard to the two major parties? How many times have we tried to draw attention to the system that has existed for decades, after which everything has previously been given in proportion, politically decided and not asked whether something is justified on the subject? – And now it is the same as in all the other areas in which it is about road construction scandals and the development of the individual special companies. It is therefore not a single case of this vignette scandal, but this problem unfortunately has a system – and that has been the case for decades; it has obviously not changed at all. It is basically inconceivable that the responsible managing director of the ASG is still in office. He has now gone on vacation and has abstained from the discussion. At least, the holder of this position would immediately withdraw. In response to the position of the liberals – because it was said here that no Austrian company came to the train –: In the context of the Court of Auditors' examination, it will also be clear that an Austrian has benefited particularly from this award of contracts, namely Mr Swarovski as the owner. He has not only very good contacts with the ÖVP, but, as we all hear over and over again, also very good contacts with the FPÖ. It is hoped that the Court of Auditors' investigation will also show how much good friendship or good acquaintance with the highest dignitaries of this state was decisive for the award. Often the award is made in this country – we know this for all the highway scandals of recent years – for totally banal reasons: Officials just sit somewhere and think: Man, it's much more classic to go on a mission trip to Chicago than to the Mostviertel. And this has no significant effect on how it is decided. Of course, it is finer to drive to a city that is very beautiful – even though the liberals have been warning us for years and say: Vienna can't be Chicago! [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: Was it nice in Rio?]] For many officials, it was probably a lot more attractive to travel to this city than to travel around Austria to make sure that companies that have a lot of experience and who have made it far better. The Court of Auditors will examine this. Another thing, because road pricing was also discussed here: The Greens – you know – have been working for years to ensure that there is no vignette, because they reward the many riders, but a kilometre-dependent tax, the so-called electronic road pricing. But one thing I wonder: If you are not able to produce and distribute such pickerl, how do you want to be able to introduce an electronic road pricing in this country, which really works, which actually accounts for the kilometers exactly and calculates the many drivers accordingly? I think there will have to be some discussions about the extent to which the Ministry of Economic Affairs and, above all, the downstream societies are in a position to ensure a real road pricing in this country.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e3453	President. — The debate is closed. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e3474	Mr President. High house! In the first place, I would like to say: One should not necessarily drop all the terms of laws that are passed in this House when it comes to debt allocation. I did not invent the share law, it was not introduced by me, it will not be changed by me either, but in share law the responsibility of a general meeting is clearly defined. As the Annual General Meeting is about to come, I have caused both Supervisory Boards to hold Supervisory Meetings. I have the two Supervisory Board reports in my office, I came back from China early today, and we will see them. After that, it must be decided – and this is independent of what the Court of Auditors is doing – whether something has happened. The second point: It would probably be reasonable and real – if we were not in a country like this – that a management, which insists that some things are wrong, also confesses to these shortcomings, and not only appears in the public – between quotation marks – "bamstig". – I am not going to let that happen, because all the rulers are paid enough. Third point: For the future, we need to do two things in terms of road pricing, as we learn from this incident. The time pressure was there, there is a risk, is never gone, and our risk of road pricing – that of Mr Eder – is once again EU in this context, because if we are to commit ourselves to a necessarily complete system and avoid bypassing routes in the consulting computer, we need authorisation again if we can introduce the duty. This will be the time problem for the next few weeks. It would probably be easiest to make a complete system with chip duty, but the chip duty will not lose us Brussels once again – and that makes us the real problem to say that to the questions. Let me also say something quite openly to the harm: Ladies and gentlemen! I'm not long enough in this house yet, but I can imagine it just as well: If it had not been determined by me, but had the society decided to exclude any uncertainty in order to impose more on five million vignettes that would not have been available then it would have been said afterwards if it had been properly estimated that it would not have been too much by five million vignettes; five million times 5 to 7 s – that would have been the damage. I therefore believe that we should be relatively careful with claims of damages. A damage can only be realized if, in fact, relatively many have not received a weekly or monthly pickerl that will not buy an annual vignette later on. In the meantime, it is known that the trend is going towards the annual vignette. [[Abg. Böhacker: Do you share the opinion that there are 15 million?]] I have been an expert for too long, Mr Deputies. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The equation shall apply: What would it have cost to eliminate any risk by a multiple distribution, in relation to what has now happened? It was also said that people cannot count up to ten. I would remind you that a special product liability applies to American companies in particular and in our case a daily fee has been agreed by a promenade of the order sum, and it is not yet excluded that a damage has occurred which is not recoverable. Ladies and gentlemen! Let me say the following to the award of orders, precisely because I have now returned from China and Japan: It is there the elite of Austrian companies who live on the fact that international registration is being made. I think it is unacceptable for a country that deserves almost half of its wealth in exporting that suddenly calls for tenders are being launched: There must not be a foreigner. – We would lose more abroad than we could ever win here! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I was still at Toyota yesterday afternoon to enforce with many Austrian companies that, despite the crisis in Japan, Austrian companies can continue to be on the order list. If the Japanese read in protocols that we think this is not supposed to happen, I would ask someone else to intervene there once. [[Abg. And where is Mr Swarovski?]] One last comment: We sold for about a billion schillings in December. We have been able to make rapid decisions over many regionally requested projects, which will ensure jobs, especially in the coming months. And projects that contribute to road safety and acceleration can be implemented. To Mr Eder on the question of the toll companies – then, I think, as I see it, I have answered the most important questions: With regard to ASFINAG debts, we have launched an attempt to enforce a society in Austria. The reaction from Bregenz to Vienna was clear: a shout. It's said it's got to stay at least two to three societies. I've already announced: I will shortly invite the transport spokesmen of the parties on this question, but also on the question of road pricing, so that we can work through this catalogue together and decide what we are going through together in order to avoid incidents as they now arise from the shift of responsibilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e3540	Thank you, Minister of State. The next speaker is Mr Kaipel. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e3565	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The introduction of the vignette has undoubtedly put us in a situation that cannot be accepted: We have lost our lives, and Austria has made fun of it abroad. It is also unpleasant that the understandable trouble of the drivers once again hits the wrong ones, namely the vignette sellers and also the officials of customs and Gendarmerie. I very much hope that the causers will apologise for this. Of course, this also leads to massive attacks against you, Federal Minister. These attacks are undoubtedly justified and cannot be removed from the table so easily. Nor does it concern that responsibility is shifted from one to another. That is why I should like to ask you, Minister of State: Make it clear who – if not you – is responsible for this chaos. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] One can of course discuss very widely from Kukacka to Anschober, but I believe that you, Minister Farnleitner, are now the poor one who has been swimming out of what your partyobmann Schüssel has put in you, because the cause goes back to this time. It is good that, as I hear, the Court of Auditors has already begun a special examination and until its conclusion, the presumption of innocence should apply to you. In any event, it will be necessary to verify whether the tendering and the award of advice and production were correct. It will be necessary to examine why an unsupply priced product with quality defects from abroad has been preferred to a cheaper product from Austria – with delivery guarantee, with quality guarantee, with security guarantee, as confirmed by the companies concerned. It will be to check when America travels were agreed and by whom they were paid. These and many other questions will be examined in order to identify those responsible. We are excited about the consequences, and we also expect them, Minister of State, as you have announced. From my point of view, the introduction was known long enough, so that it would have been enough time to prepare the matter properly. It is also a fact that organization and legal implementation, as well as supervision and control in your ministry, are your responsibility. Therefore, it is likely that the question arises whether the supervisory obligation and the control obligation have been fulfilled accordingly. It would also be interesting to hear from you how you want to avoid such a chaos in the future, as you will prevent a similar debacle in implementing the road pricing. I should therefore like to ask you, Minister, to prepare the road pricing necessary to achieve the cost-effectiveness of road transport in good time and, above all, correctly. "Road-Pricing": ==References== January by the ASG learns that the implementation of road pricing for trucks should not take place until 1999 – technical problems are the reason. I would like to point out – Mr Eder has already done so – that this contradicts the political agreement between SPÖ and ÖVP. It is also striking that every ÖVP Minister of Economic Affairs postpones this road pricing for trucks. Minister Schüssel was agreed in 1996, with Minister Ditz – due to technical problems – in 1997, according to Federal Road Finance has been agreed in 1998. I would not be surprised if perhaps the Minister of the Environment as Minister of Economic Affairs, in a few days' time, could offer us the year 2000 or later. Minister! In any case, no further delay is in question for us. That is why I would like to ask you to submit a report with a timetable for the introduction of road pricing for trucks as soon as possible, otherwise the suspicion is that you are acting in the interest of the craft lobby. And I can tell you quite clearly that we are not prepared to finance this lobby through the donor. I hope that the problems of the past have been learned for the future.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e3635	The next speaker is Mr Zweytick. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e3656	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Kaipel! I think as you have spoken here today, you can't talk in a coalition! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I feel that this is extremely negative and very disappointing, especially at a time when your coming ministers will have to do some thing out of the history of the divorcing ministers. [[Congratulations and bravado with the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations at ÖVP and SPÖ.]] It's just like that in this country, and it's not always going to be positive stories, that's clear to me. Where hustling is done, there are chips falling. I find it very constructive and any criticism important and correct, but I am asking for a constructive climate in a coalition right now. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations with the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Where's the harmony? This is a so-called environmental policy and ecological idea, it was called. That's not true at all. That was a miserable idea to hear. That's just as stupid. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Suspicion.]] Mr Anschober. I already know that the country election campaign begins in Upper Austria and that you are top candidates, but don't use this theme for Austrian citizens to organize a backwind for the election campaign. [[Call at the ÖVP:He's making election advertising here!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Why is this such an important topic? – For years now we have been discussing this in Austria, and that is typical, because we have been talking about it for too long. Only on the initiative of Minister Ditz and with the arrival of Minister Farnleitner have we been able to introduce the Vignette in Austria. For years, we've called for them over ten years. On trips to Yugoslavia, today Slovenia, of course, we have always paid the toll, or also in Italy or in many other countries. There it was, of course. Since the opening of the east and since Austria's accession to the EU, Austria has been offering itself perfectly as the classic transit country. We feel this too, our population feels the resulting burden. But the passage is not supposed to be free. For this, no Austrian and no Austrian have any more understanding. It is therefore natural and timely that a toll regulation was finally found in the form of the vignette and a further development towards road pricing. We understand that problems arise at the beginning of this new introduction. That's normal. But it is also a pity of God that there are people in this country who make themselves in the pants in such small things, for which there is no reason at all. We cry again and again, we yell around, the press picks up this, and the population is being insecured. This is not a fair thing and also harms the Austrian economy. It is quite clear that there are problems there and there at the beginning, but one learns from these problems, and the errors are corrected in the next few days and weeks. The money will not be left out, it will be cancelled a month later. This vignette takes 2.5 billion schilling a year. This is especially beneficial for the Austrian economy in road construction. What happens to this money? – For example – and this has already been decided – the expansion of the South motorway between the international market and Klagenfurt this year, already in spring. Furthermore, the construction of the Pyhrn motorway, the A9, will be operated with it, and also the construction of the important southern bypass of Landeck in Tyrol will begin this year. This is important for our transport safety. These transport policies are important for the Austrians who, as drivers, require road safety, and of course they are also willing to pay for them. They paid them five years ago. At 550 S this annual vignette is not expensive with God. If you go to Florence today, you pay back and return five times. And if you drive again, that's 5 000 p. So I don't understand why you criticize this vignette so much, why you're yelling at it. We offer a customer-friendly, versatile offer, up to the weekly vignette. [[Call the Greens.]] In Switzerland, for example, there is only one annual vignette, even if you only go through a day – the colleague said this before. The accusation that there have been bottlenecks has been raised by Mr Petrovic: I too did not try to get a vignette until the last day, although I had had time to do so since the beginning of December. But that's typical Austrian. We know each other: We are cozy and genuine. But I didn't have any problems getting a vignette. Ladies and gentlemen! However, the following must be said: I mean, bottlenecks are normal. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Mr President. I am at the end of the sentence. – Thanks to the early good snow situation there has also been a stronger interest in Shitourism, and as a result there has been bottlenecks. It is precisely thanks to Minister Farnleitner that he responded quickly and gave instructions to the tourist offices to distribute forms to guests that protected them from punishment on their return home. I would like to thank you on behalf of our tourism.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e3745	Mr President, I should like to thank The conclusions are getting longer and longer. But I cannot accept two conclusions.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e3760	Said, done! The Court of Auditors shall examine and clarify, and light shall come into the dark. Previously, everything's just noise for nothing. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e3791	The next speaker is Mr Firlinger.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e3812	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Whether this toll is a real scandal or a serious miscarriage or an inaccurate or a consequence of inability, it does not matter in effect, Mr Federal Minister. In fact, I believe that this has caused serious damage, and the fact is that in fact a number of people have been involved in this nonsense, I must say, and the fact is that you, Mr Federal Minister, cannot simply ignore your political responsibility, hide and say: I can't do it! – That, ladies and gentlemen, we are not willing to take it! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] So that we can clarify the conditions, that is to say, who the operators, the wire-drawers of the current occasion are: These are the future German Chancellor climate and your predecessor, Mr. Federal Minister, namely Ditz. These two gentlemen have absolutely imagined this toll. All warnings of the opposition, all warnings of the experts were struck by them in the wind. It was pokerd around for half a year, and what came out of it was first placed in the drawer and then brought out later. It is quite clear that there was once again a brush after another, from the planning phase to the sale. Federal Minister! There are a lot of arguments on the part of the government groups, but there is also criticism from the SPÖ towards your place of business, but one does not appear in this discussion, namely: We're moving here in a monopoly area. This is a protected area, ladies and gentlemen, and it is not a question of managers going here in a protected area and saying: "It was nothing!" and the population in Austria to give verbal sedative pills and you, Federal Minister, say: Don't be so upset, dear ARBÖ people, dear OAMTC people! Swamm over it! Let's examine a little, and then the thing's done! Federal Minister! I'm really wondering: What are managers in the protected area, going here and saying that they are looking forward to an inquiry by the Court of Auditors and there is no roll of heads!Unknown term type: "%s".? How can people who ensure that the reputation of Austria abroad is similar to that of an operetta state say that!Unknown term type: "%s".? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We will see in the Committee whether Mr Breyer and Mr Unterholzner's serenity will continue even if there is a high need for hearing. Federal Minister! But let me add the following: If planning and production are already going into the pants and if the wrong person gets the job, why don't you go here and use at least a sales channel that has been proven for decades? Contracts were concluded with all possible partners: with the EA insurance, with the Wiener Allianz, with the ADAC, because of course Germany is affected, with the ARBÖ, with the ÖAMTC, with Lekkerland, with a few trafiliants, but on all the other trafiliants who have sold the German stamp marks for many decades, the distribution route has passed, which has not even been asked, which has simply not been involved. But they would have been most likely to estimate how the need is, how these people's needs are to be satisfied. [[Complaints with the liberals]] These people also know that Austria is always ordered in the last minute. This is an Austrian cum, and this must be expected, Minister of State, and you could have included this in your plans. Federal Minister! You can't say either: I am so helpless, I am the poor minister, I cannot intervene in the gestion or in the leadership of the toll societies! – You can do it very well because you are the owner, and if you tell your Supervisory Boards they have to intervene, and they don’t, please send the Supervisory Boards into the desert, but don’t be inactive! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That's what makes me so excited: the inactivity in this Republic! Nothing happens, everything is dragged away, and if the opposition rains, then it's condescending and then it says it's not supposed to get upset. That's not how it will be, Minister of State! The opposition can't be hung around a muzzle. I would like to expressly ask you here once again: Create You clear conditions, get through in your ministry, don't hesitate to continue!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e3890	Mr Helmut Peter came to speak.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e3912	Mr President. High house! Federal Minister! Weiland Emperor Franz Josef said: "I'm not going to save anything!" I suppose you're in the same situation now. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Böhacker.]] Yes, the Minister of Economic Affairs still has to do this. Federal Minister! Personally, you have nothing to do with the whole thing of course. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's interesting!]] Only: It is clear that you bear the responsibility for it, and this responsibility is now indivisible, because it is only in your area. Federal Minister! What happened isn't a loop. But now there is also a Committee on the Court of Auditors, which is still being doubled, and now many political mandates can be important there, and certainly Mr Firlinger too. But the concrete thing about it is quite different: It's about the simple and simple inability to do something. And this federal government – and that is terrifying – demonstrates its inability by means of the contract agreement, it demonstrates its inability to pay the health certificate, it demonstrates its inability to do with the toll pickerls, the chaos of self-retaining in the school books and so on and so on. I'm worried, Minister of State. The whole thing is not a try: Let's try it, we'll see what's going on! These are soluble tasks. There's something like private-public partnership. That is to say, I am writing an activity, saying to a private person that he is responsible for taking over this activity, and I have it monitored accordingly. What we don't want is explanations. We want troubleshooting. That is the task of our parliamentarians! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] The task of our parliamentarians is to decide the legal framework in this country and to control the government. But today we've been talking about running 34 million schilling for over an hour. And now, because of this 34 million schilling, we are also making an investigation committee in the Court of Auditors, because it produces political change, while in this country hundreds of millions of shillings we should take care of are going down the stream. We should have debates on the really important issues here and not on the inability of people who are not even able to sell picnics. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Federal Minister! I am an Austrian European, and it really hurts me when you laugh at my country, and how our guests laughed about us at Christmas and the New Year was not funny. We have defended our country, of course we have. We invented excuses why the toll picker is not working. But actually it hurt us. We even bought Pickerl to surprise the guests before leaving, to hand it over to them and say: Because you were with us, you have the pickerl for the first week for a good way home! - We didn't even need to distribute them again. It was a pure shot in the knee. It was a pure ridicule! Minister for Economic Affairs! I did on 28 May. In June, you made a parliamentary request to you and made it clear to you all the problems that will arise when selling the toll pickerl. You answered me in August. Your answer was self-confidence, and you have explained to me that there is a comprehensive information campaign and that foreign tourists and also domestic hoteliers are informed. I've never been informed, though. – They have announced a wide distribution network in Germany and abroad et cetera. Parliamentary questions are not there to annoy you, but they are also there to draw your attention to something to give you a hint: Take care of it, it doesn't work! Minister for Economic Affairs! I pointed out from this point of view in October that this will not work. I referred to it again in November. You've told me every time it works. Federal Minister! I would like to point out once again that in February the first weekend of travel will come, where we hope we will have a very strong urge to Austria – the traffic jams last year reached Rosenheim – and I do not think that we should allow the traffic jams to extend to Munich. That is a question of the organization, which is a logistic question, and in reality only a political question if something is as marked by failure as this area. Ladies and gentlemen! I hope that this House will soon deal with the real issues of our country and that this Federal Government will offer us real good performance next to changing positions, failures here and there and dilettantism. We need it bitterly!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e3967	Mr. Federal Minister, please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e3989	Mr President. High house! A few comments on some of the questions still raised. First of all, to Mr Firlinger: The more difficult and complicated things are, the easier it is to make a minister responsible. Well: I have not decided the law in which the road companies are ordered ex ly. [[fierce contradiction at the Liberal Forum]] Mr Kaipel, I must say: There are also representatives of the Ministry of Finance in the respective road companies. That was supposed to be so. I repeat once again to clarify: As a competent Federal Minister, I was invited to the Supervisory Boards to hold and report on analysis sessions without delay. This will be done if the results are available. The audit shall be carried out independently of the Court of Auditors. - Second point. Third point – because so much cabaret is made –: It is perhaps one of the most interesting Effects of these apparitions that the same Bavarian ministers and the same Württemberg ministers, yes German officials who make fun of us in newspaper interviews, call in private and say: Please explain to us how to do this, because we want to introduce it too! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: Haha! In Chikago!]] Of course, it is not exactly funny to be mocked for things that have been transferred to certain levels. Only: The consequence can only be that – I mentioned it earlier –: I will invite the transport spokespersons of the political parties to discuss together how we are getting to the brink of road pricing without such effects. Secondly, On the basis of all the reports, the necessary consequences will be met. Nevertheless: It will be important for all the parties involved in the companies now responsible to be aware that they are taking a high risk if they cannot give the impression that all of this will work smoothly in the next few weeks. The necessary measures will be taken from our side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e4038	I now declare the current hour closed in accordance with Article 97a of the Rules of Procedure. Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e4060	I announce that the Liberal Forum's club, according to § 93 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure requested urgent consideration of the written question 1830/J by Mr Hans Peter Hazelsteiner and Mr Comrades to the Federal Minister for Finance on the financialability of the removal of the reform stand. For the purposes of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, I shall determine the beginning of the urgent debate on this question at 3 p.m. Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e4084	Before entering the agenda, I shall also inform the House that the honourable Member has requested that the Constitutional Committee report on Amendment No 349/A (E) on the possibility of splitting votes in country elections be limited to 25. ==References====External links== This request will be put to the vote after the end of the negotiations. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e4108	I refer to the written communication distributed at the meeting room with regard to the negotiating items and their allocation. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e4224	I would like to sum up the debate on points 3 to 5, 7 and 8, 9 and 10 and 11 and 12 of the agenda today. Is there any objection? - That's not the case. Then we'll do that. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e4248	I shall now go into the agenda and report that the President-in-Office of the Council has reached consensus on the organisation and duration of the debates on today's agenda. Accordingly, a day-block speaking time of a total of eight "Vienna hours" was agreed, resulting in the following speaking times: SPÖ 120 minutes, ÖVP 112 minutes, Freedom 104 minutes, Liberal Forum and Greens each 72 minutes. That is what the National Council has to say, and I therefore ask: Are there any objections to this proposal? - That's not the case. That's what it's decided to do. 1. Point Report of the Economic Committee on the report of the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs (III-41 of the Supplements) on the situation in the tourism and leisure sector in Austria 1995 (536 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e4278	We'll get to the 1st. Agenda item. I do not have a wish for oral reporting. That is why we are going into the debate at once. First of all, Mrs Rossmann is speaking. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e4322	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Federal Minister! Today, in January 1997, we are discussing the tourism report with the conclusion of December 1995 and with figures from 1994. I have to say: The fact that a tourism report with data from 1994 was discussed in 1997 alone demonstrates the importance of tourism in this Federal Government. That's a sad thing! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But for this, alibihal mountains are commissioned by the Ministry of Economic Affairs. To this end, I must say: I just took the shorts. Minister! I brought them with you so that you can see what has come from the Ministry of Economic Affairs in the last four years, with only studies from 1995 on the sum of 22 million schillings. This must be imagined: In 1995 alone, studies of 22 million schillings were commissioned for tourism in the Ministry of Economic Affairs! Federal Minister! I wonder if you, in your answer to my question, what happens to the studies now – by the way: it is very, very high-quality studies that have to be said – write, they are used to conduct tourism policy. I am already wondering what the current figures and reports from Austria and the general capital situation and so on, if they are not included in the considerations, will be necessary. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] According to your statements, these studies are also used for press releases and press talks. To that end, Mr Minister, I must say: That's not enough, that's definitely not enough! Perhaps you have the opportunity in the new government to distribute these studies to the members of the government so that perhaps some Minister can bring this cross-sectoral matter to the fore so that he can act accordingly in the future. It would also be a concern for the new German Chancellor climate to lead to this study, then there might be no longer any new "climate" tax package, because especially in tourism, the past load package has already become the "climate" disaster. Minister for Economic Affairs! I know you can't do anything for that right now, but you have the consequences. I have made the effort and I have only once thought about what the energy tax, for example, which is a "climate" tax, costs us. For example, a 200-bed hotel with sauna and indoor pool at half board has an extra cost of approximately 150 000 S per year. You can calculate because you look so disbelief, Mr. Cot. That's fact! [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: No! But from you came the proposal!]] We owe the losses to the "climate" package, we owe him the minimum KÖST – that is why there are 26 000 vocations – and we owe him the contractual situation, with the future Chancellor himself saying he does not know about it. ==References== Sales tax date is at all the summit! Do you know what this means for our industry? – The fact that hoteliers who have not even opened their hotel have to pay the sales tax for January in December. Winter season farms must pay the tax for January in advance in December. There's another pikanery there: It was first called the 13. Sales tax date is only a one-time thing, namely from 1994 to 1995. Do you know what Minister of Finance has done? – It has stated in the Structural Adjustment Act that it is for the 13th century. Sales tax date no longer gives any support, but, quite the contrary, even a punishment. Those who do not pay now must pay the tax by a month earlier in the following year. This brought the "climate" load package with which we have to fight in tourism and which is already becoming the "climate" disaster. I can tell you that. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is also proof of how the government deals with our plagued companies. Companies must be required for this 13th anniversary. Sales tax date Loans, because mostly no money is in the cash register. Do you know what the entrepreneurs are doing? – They stop for the beginning of the season, two people stop less. These are the consequences. But that's where the red wing looks. This does not matter to you at all, although the last unemployment figures, including in the tourism sector, show that it goes down further economically. Or another example: the additional wage costs. The government has begun and has said that there is absolutely no increase in additional labour costs. What happened? – It has been said hidden that even if the employer and the employee are discharged in the future, they will remain subject to contributions until the holiday is consumed. That means: Even in the event of temporary redundancies – the employee may have stolen me – the employee must remain registered until he has consumed his vacation, and all contributions must be paid by the employer. That's not how it's done! A new employee is needed for the same job. This means that the entrepreneur has to pay for two jobs during this period. This is the nonsense that this government has produced with the new "climate" package. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But this government has no interest at all in reducing any burden in Austrian tourism. We have been in international competition for a long time, but that it is now becoming so shocking and that we are so bad, of course, is a consequence of our framework conditions. For example, in Austria there is a 10% tax rate of Logis, while in our competition countries there is a much lower rate: in Spain 7 percent, in the Canary Islands even only 4 percent, Switzerland has halved it again and reached 3 percent. We have to fight against it! In addition, we are the only country in Europe with a 20 percent VAT rate on mineral water and fruit juices. Therefore, of course, our drinks are too expensive to be criticized. In the case of mineral water – you have to imagine that! – the purchase price, the purchase price is often cheaper than the VAT delivered. That's our problem, Minister. I know that you are not directly responsible for this, because you are not responsible for the financial sector, but you as a tourism minister have the people in the government to take a course that they understand our concerns. That's the job you've got to do! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We are also the only country in Europe with a drinking tax. I myself have a pattern process. This one's in full swing, and I'll tell you how it goes out. This too would have been the task of the government to be introduced in this respect, rather than let the entrepreneurs get through it themselves. Austria is the only country in Europe – or perhaps even worldwide – because I do not know whether this absurdity is still somewhere else; it has also been criticized by the Greens in connection with the opening hours in the gastronomy – a holiday supplement, which can also be paid to all those employees who do not work on a holiday, only when the company has opened on holiday. One must imagine this absurdity! The employees don't understand that. The employee says: I don't work, what should I pay a holiday supplement for? Only that colleague who works is supposed to get him. That's how it looks in Austria! If I haven't opened a holiday, I don't have to pay this holiday supplement. That is why many businesses on the holiday are no longer open because they simply cannot afford it anymore. That's how it looks! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Other example: We have to pay canal fees up to 70 S per cubic meter in Austria. As I could read a press release, a host in Carinthia, from St. Georgen am Längsee, complained that he had to pay more than 70 s per cubic metre of canal fees. [[Abg. Leikam: That's not true! I'm sorry to let you down! You can't do everything!]] There's also a red mayor, so I don't wonder. Furthermore, Austria – as we are again at the toll, Mr. Federal Minister – has a double toll as the only country in Europe. [[Federal Minister Dr. Farnleitner: That's not true!]] What do you mean, that's not true? We have a toll in the form of the vignette, and we have the tunnel toad. And then always comes the argument with Italy. I made the effort to count the tunnels between Udine and Tarvis. It's over 20 tunnels. But you don't pay toll for that. You pay the kilometre price of 80 groschen, but that's all even cheaper than the double hat. As a Grazer, I can say that – and I am surprised by the attitude of colleague Zweytick: To get from north to south in Austria, this costs me to return 400 S only at tunnel charges. 400 S! 200 S Bosruck and 200 S Gleinalm tunnel. The 400 S. That is not justified, and no one understands that either. I have here a letter from a bus operator from Germany, who has written his partners in Austria, his Austrian tour operators and hoteliers. The cost of travel to Austria will increase considerably for us from 1997 onwards. In 20 buses, additional costs amount to DM 17 000. – That is about 140 000 p. – We are not able to pass these costs on to our customers because it would not pay the customers either. Nor are we able to bear these costs entirely. We therefore depend on the help of our Austrian performance providers. So who are the service providers? – This is the hotel industry again, and these are the travel agency-incomers again. That is to say – I have already brought this problem to your attention – a German bus operator must buy this vignette for his entire fleet, because he does not know with which buses he takes the guests in his turn and picks them up again. It is not possible to plan that he will only install "Austria buses" under quotation marks. These are things, Mr Minister, which are within your area of responsibility. You are the Minister of Tourism, you have to ensure that this does not go in this direction. We already have a film image in Germany, the newspapers are full of it: The Abzockers in Austria! Whether it's good for us, I really dare doubt. I'll take a look at this at the ITB in Berlin in a few weeks. Minister! That's what you have to live with. You have to take action in this regard! That's your job – and not ours in the opposition!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e4422	You have seen, Mrs Colleague, the voluntary speaking time has expired. I've set to 20 minutes now.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e4437	But now you have decided, against our votes, half-heartedly a change in our plant law, half-heartedly because you say that the new entrepreneur has five years to bring the operation up to date when it takes over. What happens in these five years? Why can't you leave a farm that lasts for 30 years and works and has complied with the applicable plant law, why do you have to put pressure on it again and carnifage it again? Now you have five years for it. What's going to happen? The local official will say: You have to do that, you have to do it, and you have to do it, because you have five years for it anyway. Where he might have pushed an eye in the past, he now says: You've got five years anyway. - That's how practice looks. You have to go out to the entrepreneurs and talk to the people outside, then you know how the practice looks! Then such things would not be possible. All of this, of course, results in a decline in sales; we are already at 4 billion. This also proves the latest Nilsson study, which says quite clearly for the first time: Decreases in Austrian domestic tourism are due to the load package. There I am again with you, Minister: They are the champion of domestic tourism. People are supposed to go on vacation in the country. – Why not do you not do a timely study that analyses the impact of the "climate" spa package on domestic tourism? Then perhaps you would have recognized in good time what measures you would have to take to ensure that the Austrians would be able to make a holiday again so that they could afford it. That is why: The Austrian wants to go on vacation, he has the free time, but he can't afford it anymore, and it will get worse in the future. The necessary investments, which are always required by all sides, are not possible, everyone knows that. We have an equity structure that makes this investment almost impossible. I have experienced at the GAST in Salzburg itself that the entrepreneurs tell: The hoteliers come, look at great dishes, and then the woman says: You know what? I cleared the old dishes in the basement three years ago, we'll get them back up now, we'll do it, it'll be a biterl mixed. This is how it is currently being worked, and this is your economic policy: It's getting the old man out of the basement because you can't afford anything new. – And how should we remain internationally competitive? These are many questions, Mr Minister, which you have to address and for which you have to offer solutions. Finally, a word on the Austrian advertising: I fully agree with the restructuring in the intended form, because it is a request from me since I was here in the National Council that we build it up similar to other companies, i.e. with the Board of Directors and Supervisory Board, and that it should be a forum with a wide range of opinions. Only, I have heard rumors that the Austrian advertising, which has now become a branch of the SPÖ headquarters, is even intended to be transferred to the Federal Chancellor's Office. [[Abg. Parnigoni: That would be great, but we are not that strong!]] I don't know how far you know these rumors. After the exclusion of the Austrian advertising – I can imagine that you like it – the rest is supposed to be transferred to the Federal Chancellery to the Chamber of Commerce. I don't know to what extent that's true, maybe you know more. That would, of course, be fatal, that would be an initial politicalisation. I believe that the time has come to discuss publicly, to make the public a real capital company, to really privatise the public sector and to take back politics from this area with all the means that are possible. Finally, Mr Minister, I call on you to take a real stand in the government for a discharge of the framework conditions and finally to draw up an overall approach. These are all concepts, perhaps you can draw up an overall tourism concept that makes the government operational in terms of tourism. [[shows on the bump of papers]] It is necessary for every law to be examined before it is passed: Is this law compatible with tourism? Do we not re-establish jobs in tourism by means of this law? Are we not at risk for more businesses with this? – These would be questions you should ask for every measure. This is your job, and I appeal to you – I am confident – that this will be done with your help in the near future.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e4486	Mr Leikam has reported on an actual correction. – Please respect the Rules of Procedure and clearly define the facts to be corrected.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e4510	Mr President. Mrs Rossmann here claimed that a hoteler in the municipality of St. Georgen am Längsee would have to pay 70 S canal fees, which would not be surprising, because there a SPÖ mayor would have the saying. I'll put it right: Mr Rossmann's statement is false. The link between increased canal fees and the SPÖ mayor is not to be seen, because the ring canalization, which led to the increased fees, has been established under a liberal mayor. In the meantime, however, he was chosen, which was no wonder.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e4541	The next speaker is Mr Puttinger. – Speaking time in itself 20 minutes, 10 minutes voluntarily.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e4562	Mr President. High house! In view of the fact that you do not know that there is no new plant right yet, and it is said that you agree with 80 big road pricing – you have said you prefer to drive to Udine, because there you pay only 80 sizes per kilometer – you have to say that this bundled package, which is located here, is in fact clearly proof of the work-resistance and the knowledge-resistance of the FPÖ. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Johann Wolfgang von Goethe already said in 1773: Where there is a lot of light, there is also strong shadow. This also applies to the content of the tourism report. Of course, this report, which I would like to say, deals with old figures, but it offers the opportunity to bring to Parliament today, what the current situation is and what the needs of this industry are really like. However, this debate also offers the opportunity to bring the public closer to the importance of this sector. Since I am optimistic, first the positive aspects – and I want to bring only two, because everyone else will certainly be brought in the discussion –: The share of international travel revenue was 6.6 percent in 1994, 6.3 percent in 1995. The per capita foreign exchange income is still more than 18,000 S in Austria, and the EU-wide average per capita foreign exchange income is 4 000 S. I think we are still world champions in many areas, and have to be sure that we remain. This is our task here in Parliament. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] However, all these outstanding figures cannot conceal the fact that, of course, a decline in the surplus from travel has occurred from 75 billion in the past to about 20 billion now – perhaps even to zero in the future. At the same time, there is a reduction in the current account deficit, which currently has a deficit of 40 billion schilling. But I am opposed to giving tourism the sole blame for it, because I believe that the people who have worked there, the entrepreneurs, the employees, but also the capital used have been used more than before to hold this position that we still have today. [[Heindl and Mag. Peter.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! With all the negative influences, such as the focus of the Austrian offer on saturated markets, we would like to admit, such as fashion flows, which are becoming effective everywhere, such as attractive gains of eastern tourism or the development of tourism services in general, as in the tourism report, a stagnation is now taking place at a very high level in domestic tourism. The tourism report also notes that tourism policy should make increased efforts to coordinate Austria at least gradually on future markets in overseas, on future markets in southern Europe. I believe that these countries have excellent prospects for growth in the medium term, and I also believe that the currently low foreign travel intensity of these countries will ultimately benefit us. I agree with Mr Peter when he says that the overall situation of this industry, which is something to be seen critically, must not lead – and he has said this several times – to the fact that the guest is suffering from this discussion. We must not be sick of tourism in Austria, but we must not pray for tourism in Austria, I believe. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We in Parliament must help tourism itself to overcome the difficulties and we have three main points of support. The first concerns marketing and advertising. The principle of subsidiarity has resulted in a very positive restructuring of R & D. I believe that it is equally important for a co-operation – instead of a co-operation – between the public authorities of the Chamber of Commerce and the external trade bodies of the Chamber of Commerce to take place. The ÖVP wants – and here we were able to reach great agreement with the Socialists too – to counter the declining trend of the tourism and leisure industry, to create a new promotion concept as an incentive for the development of regional tourism concepts, for the cooperation of individual existing tourism organisations, but also for the cooperation of businesses among themselves. We must highlight the marketing of the region. We need to take full advantage of the existing organizational possibilities. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Secondly, I would like to list the structural adjustments. We have targeted public funds. We have to apply the quality of our services even more customer-oriented. We have to take measures to make it easier to leave. We have to call on the communities to make the appropriate reorientations. We have to assert our influence in the countries so that the basic traffic laws are adapted accordingly. However, we also have to take appropriate measures at federal level to avoid red tape, but at the end of the day we will also benefit from tax. This leads me to the third point of my statement, namely the area of financing. Due to the low interest rate, many tourism companies currently survive only for this only reason – despite all internal and external poor conditions. In order to prepare us for the time of rising interest rates – and this is a time that is guaranteed to come back – and to be able to make the necessary quality improvements at all – we can expect a framework of about 15 billion schilling in the near future – we also have to deal with this problem at a parliamentary level. I am thinking of the fixed mortgage, I am thinking of incentives for private investors, I am thinking of the total set-aside, because this is an aid to micro and small enterprises. I am thinking, however, in the long term – and I am asking for your support; that is an old demand for EIAs – of the tax advantage of the unabsorbed profit. Only in this way can we actually promote the farms. If you calculate this, you'll see where we're going. [[Abg. May. Schreiner: You are also in Parliament! Why do you always reject it in Parliament?]] I don't reject it. Absorbed You're not Your statements with the contents, if you always ask for something that is not at all feasible, an overall package that burdens us with 38 or 40 billion schilling! Then you can speak with me. Bring financeable proposals, then it will work! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, we want to note that, today and here, it is a question of raising awareness of an industry without which we cannot live in Austria. We from the EIA will ensure that the bureaucracy is eliminated. We will ensure that the corset of working time is separated. We will ensure that operations are carried out over and over. We will create future-oriented tax reliefs. That's what we're standing for. We can assure you. It is about people who work in the tourism industry being able to take more care of the guest again. That must be the objective. They have created a strong basis in the past. They know that 79 percent of our visitors are regular guests in summer, 82 percent in winter. This can be seen positively or negatively. For me, this is a positive statement, and I would like all those who work in tourism to see all those who work for tourism offered a positive and good future on this basis.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e4632	The next speaker is Mr Helmut Peter.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e4653	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The tourism industry is in the most difficult structural change it has ever had. Dr. Puttinger and Mrs Rossmann have already pointed out a number of problems in the context. The Federal Minister himself knows that the 1995 report is a maximum look into the past and not a look into the future. I am therefore pleased that you will redesign the new report and hope that we will be able to discuss it in March or April. Some suggestions to a new tourism report, which I believe should contain much more than long statistics: We have to break our minds on what it has to do with economics, whether we have a million or a million nights less. In a country such as Germany or even in a country like Italy, tourism plays a much smaller role in relation to gross domestic product than in Austria, and therefore the effects of a million nights are more or less more serious, especially when one knows that the regional policy scatter in tourism in Austria is bad. There are entire sea shores, there are entire valleys where we have no value added, no jobs without tourism; it is the only land pension. So the new tourism report should focus on regions, on model regions, where regional value added is 20, 30, 50, 60 or 80 percent, to determine what it means for the whole area, for which economic structure, when tourism falls by 10, 20 percent, as unfortunately happened in many regions – sometimes even by 30 percent. In this report, Mr Minister for Economic Affairs, we will also have to address the question of how business economies are going. The weakest link in the chain of business economies becomes increasingly the accommodation business – and especially the accommodation company is the indispensable link, because without beds you also do not sell Dirndln and do not have any school students. These are questions which we have not asked, which were covered by the fact that by 1992 tourism has grown by itself like the Swammerln in the forest, and since 1992/93, since we have gone through the gap of our development, we are actually faced with the phenomenon of all saying: What are we supposed to do now? People don't come anymore. – They really don’t come anymore. And if we do not adopt concrete and structural measures if this Federal Government does not find any answers in its area of responsibility to the fact that the guests are no longer coming, it will be insufficient to always point out the failure of the companies themselves. These failures of the companies themselves exist, and these failures of the companies are painful, and I am grateful to everyone of you, ladies and gentlemen, who always comes to me and tells me individual things. They're rounding out my picture. I thank you for that. I would like to take note of this criticism, but I know that this bad behaviour of the industry on the market is inadvertently "honored" by leaving the market. That's painful enough. But we can't make it so easy to say: If they were all better, the problem would be solved. – It's not like that! By 1992, in a growing market, all these farms have been able to live in a way that is good and bad, and even after 1992 it cannot be that at once two thirds of a healthy and good core of businesses have been bitten by collective insanity and only more guests are mistreated. It can't be like that! Federal Minister! It has already been said a lot about micro-economic issues, about questions of the framework conditions. Only one thing is clear: These conditions, which affect the plants, these 70 s per cubic metre wastewater, play a role. We have made environmental policy, transport, taxation, social policy, but we have never cumulated it. We never said: What, then, is the sum of the measures, as a framework condition, for each holding? What has it seen as an influence? Today we are facing the problem that Austria is one of the most expensive and the most expensive tourism location in the world together with Switzerland. Tourist flows always flow from high-cost countries to low-cost countries. Tourist flows always flow from hard-currency countries to soft-currency countries. Those who want to swim against the current – and the guests who visit our country have to swim against the electricity – can only be attracted if we are qualitatively better, if we are qualitatively just that emotionally better in the product than the costs and thus the prices are higher than in the competition. I believe that the policy will not come to terms with a punctual approach to this issue, but it will have to deal with it in detail in a tourist master plan. The many studies that Mrs Rossmann has shown are certainly important and necessary; she has also qualified her as good and correct. We need a comprehensive master plan, which defines what this Republic and the nine federal states responsible for tourism want to do together, where tourism is to develop. This has nothing to do with five-year planning, it has nothing to do with planning. This is a framework guideline where you break your head over how it goes on. And if we don't think about this question at the latest now and today – already for years too late – the tourism industry will go back, it's already on its way there. That is to say, the 2% foreign exchange income of gross domestic product that we have already lost is a painful lack of economic growth. Austria is now the last place in the European Union with regard to economic growth. If we had the 2 percent foreign exchange revenue from tourism, we would be in the leading field. Apparently, this economic miracle in Austria was not least a tourist. Now that this is gone, the Federal Government has no answer. She should have found her three years ago. I considered it my job to say here as early as March 1992: There's something going on, you're acting! In March 1995 and 1996, I repeatedly pointed this out. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It was considered irrelevant at the time, which I regret. It does not help to criticize this. The question is: How do we proceed in the future? So do we have the courage to define this master plan, which covers all areas, because the tourism industry is the most export-intensive sector in this country, which ultimately sells the economic and social conditions, even this country internationally! Let us take the opportunity to collect it in a master plan to say what influences are present and what measures we need to take! I mean, deregulation and debureaucratisation belong to this. We hear this again and again in this House. Only: The same, who are constantly talking about deregulation and debureaucratisation, here in the House are always deciding on new regulations. You certainly remember our discussion about the opening hours. It was a victory, but a Pyrrhus victory, a Pyrrhus victory towards red tape, a Pyrrhus victory towards complication of the economy. But if you want to: It was an improvement in the opening hours, I admit. On the labour cost question: The cost of working in the personal service 1 to 1, ladies and gentlemen. Of course, you have to thank God, in the industry the chance – and this makes our industry very successful – to keep the unit labour costs in line with the market over an increase in productivity. President Vergestnich explained this very well yesterday in the "ZIB 2" to the public. But why did not President Vergestnitsch add that this does not work in the tertiary sector, especially in part of the personal service? This is the problem, however, that every increase in labour costs by one percentage point in the order of 0.3, 0.4 to 0.5 percentage points in the price of final sales or is not honoured on the market, leading to a fall in earnings and cash flows. We cannot increase labour costs in tourism in 1997 in the event of declining value added. If we do, we will have even less foreign exchange revenue and less employment. Tourism had an employment growth until 1995 inclusive. Around 161 000 people have found work in this area – unfortunately not all throughout the year. There were approximately 40 000 seasonal eggs that had to work under seasonal service conditions. Today we have lost some 5,000 jobs, and for the year 1997, we are forecast another 2.8% job loss. That is a problem that we must turn to! That's 4,000 people who don't find a job. 36 000 people were unemployed in the tourism industry in December 1996. In November 1996, it was 46 000 – due to the season. But 36 000 in the season month of December are too many! As the Federal Government must take action, it must act. It will not move forward without a master plan without a clear definition of what it wants. Federal Minister for Economic Affairs, Buildings and Tourism – and what else you are! Actually, you can't look at all of this. There are a number of tourism-intensive countries in the European Union that have their own tourism ministries, not because tourism would have to be controlled with planning, but because it is a cross-cutting matter, a cross-sectional competence such as the environment. As far as the environment is concerned, countries are directly competent. That's exactly like that. One needs a minister or a minister who is devoted to this difficult subject, which is really essential for the country of Austria. The future Federal Chancellor is in the process of redesigning the cabinet. I mean, a Ministry of Leisure, Culture and Sport would burden the demand-oriented side of this issue. The whole question of the age of our society would be a highly interesting issue, to which policy should approach framework-forming, non-regulatory, and this Ministry of Leisure, Culture and Sport could include the implementation of a tourist master plan. Also editor-in-chief Sperl of the "Standard" has now expressed his thanks to God for this opinion. All in all, Mr Federal Minister, I agree that you have devoted yourself to this question the first months you hold this office. But you obviously have – and this is not your fault – too little time to really think into these things, and especially now, in the most difficult phase of the development of the tourism industry in Austria, which has a painful effect on the whole country, which is the relevant one – especially at this time... [[Call to the ÖVP: He has made a great effort!]] I admit that, Mr. Cot. I have just admitted that the Minister of Economic Affairs is very much concerned about this. However, I believe that it is now time to go a great deal further in the sense of master planning, an establishment of a Ministry of Leisure, Culture and Sport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e4695	Mr Parnigoni. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e4716	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The 1995 tourism report is no longer up-to-date, we have already heard that. I would just like to say the following: I believe that it would be necessary for more concrete analyses to be made in addition to the important data collection of the tourism report. In addition, the tourism report should include more political conclusions, in particular the measures to be taken, as well as any review of the course or an evaluation of the proposed measures of the previous tourism report. But since the Minister has announced a redesign, I am very happy about it and I am very positive about it. Perhaps to a few of the 1995 report's statements: It notes, among other things, that expenditure on travel and holidays is only one tenth of what is spent on leisure activities in the place of residence. Ladies and gentlemen! This means that the tourism industry is part of the leisure industry. In my view, therefore, it is quite logical to conclude that it is necessary not only for travellers, but also for the leisure needs of the population to make the appropriate offers, because this can be seen in a context. This can certainly also achieve a higher acceptance. This has been excellently successful in Vienna, for example. You only need to look at the events at the Town Hall Square and other events. There will be more efficiency in exploiting local facilities, and this will probably make holidaymakers feel more comfortable because they feel more integrated and absorbed by the local population. It is worth noting, for example, in the 1995 report, that in the presentation of the trend-ports with numerical material from 1992, Minister of State. This suggests that we do not have continuous market research in this country. I would therefore like to quote a quote from Professor Weiermair from the Institute of Services at the University of Innsbruck of April 1996, who said: The local tourism and leisure industry has so far acted without professional market research. The non-existent market research also closes our access to new customers. Through the guest survey we only know of the guests who have come, of those who do not come, we know nothing at all. Above all, we do not know why they are not coming and therefore cannot make any corresponding offers. Market research is simply the prerequisite for the development of new markets, he said, and so on. Ladies and gentlemen! We must take a very important step in this regard and go beyond the guest survey. It is a fact that between 1992 and 1996, the current account has worsened by 46 billion schilling, the travel balance by 47 billion schilling. This means that the current account deficit is a result of the Austrian tourism problem. There are also external influences here, but a good part of the problem is homemade. Ladies and gentlemen! It is therefore essential, above all, to look more closely at the qualitative and price weaknesses of the offer and also to eliminate it. In my opinion, in this context, was an article from the "Standard" of 16. Mr President, I would like to say a few words about this. "The conclusion of a survey of 3,000 companies in the high hotel industry in Austria across the country is" – Mr Peter knows this very well –: "Those who mourn the most have done the least and call out to the aid of politics the loudest. These farms have the worst results in the summer season 1996 and are most afraid of the current winter." Smeral, the one who wrote the tourism report: "These hoteliers have at least invested, hardly cared for staff qualifications and usually do not participate in reservation systems." Ladies and gentlemen! That means: It is about eliminating the qualitative and price weaknesses of supply. I think it is important that we close the gaps in experience tourism and event tourism. Unfortunately, we still have insufficient cooperation between providers of tourism and leisure services. Unfortunately, we often have – and this is always the subject of criticism in the media – high-priced ancillary services, or we have an inadequate internationalization, which the countries of origin of our guests arrive. Therefore, it seems important to me to reorganise tourism marketing. I am concerned that the marketing of regions in a cooperation between businesses, the local associations, the municipalities and the country organisation with the countries is being carried out, with the aim of, quite openly, reducing this increase in tourism associations and organisations. I just mention two examples: In Tyrol there are about 243 such associations and associations. With me in the forest district – that is, honestly, incomprehensible... – Yes, I know! [[Abg. Ing. Meischberger: You're right! They're abolished!]] You are already in the right direction in Tirol. In the forest area we have a top, bottom, middle forest district and above a region. I believe that one must confess to a region, and that is then the marketable offer. Secondly, it is a reform of tourism promotion. We need to get away from the principle of foundry and to coordinate the funding institutions of the federal, state and local authorities so that we avoid double-tracking, and secondly, we need to promote new forms of cooperation, which seems to me to be important, between individual providers of the tourism and leisure industry and between communities in a region, in order to make this region the marketable product. In addition, it seems important to me that quality improvement should be given priority, not capacity expansion. Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been given an opinion on Austria's advertising by Mr Rossmann, as has Mr Puttinger. I can say: I believe that the internal structural reform should be very positive for the first time. It has succeeded in reversing the expenditure of staff and advertising, so to speak. That is to say, there is now a reasonable expenditure structure. There have been internal reforms, which have certainly not been quite easy. I would also like to say that we are now taking another step to broaden the basis of cooperation with as many people as possible and also to consider whether the association structure is the right structure for the future. There must be no AG, there can be a GesmbH to ensure the right of access. But above all, it is a question of whether the countries and the regions will then buy the benefits from the public sector. So I could imagine such a model. Ladies and gentlemen! I do not think anything about the coffee house of Mr Rossmann that the ÖW is now coming to the Federal Chancellery at once. [[Abg. Rossmann: You don't want to hear that!]] You have now made Mr Lukas a liberal exponent and candidate. That's why he always tells you how he's being insulted. – In reality, it is only about the fact that you have to admit that your current MP has not brought anything together in the public sector. That's fact! And the fact is, he's guilty of us getting into this mess. Ladies and gentlemen! A fourth point. – We are committed to creating a tourism bank, because we need a bank that has a high industry-specific know-how that has the task of providing advice and project support. Federal Minister! I insist that this can also be the ÖHT, the Austrian hotel loyalty hand. I don't think much of it when you split it into several banks. I think you should agree on an institute, and you should stand behind it. I don't think I've got three federal funding heads. I believe that the debate should be held once again. I believe that the debate on the competence situation between the Federal Government, the countries, the regions and the municipalities must be strengthened. The federal government alone is restricted in its competence in tourism policy, but it has the responsibility to bring it in front of the curtain, so to speak. Mr. Minister, you're going to experience this over and over again. I therefore believe that it is necessary to involve the countries, the municipalities and the regions. To conclude: What hurts me is that the President of the Federal Chamber of Commerce, with his request to take out, for example, leisure and sports accidents from legal insurance, or with his request for a spa week to be included in the paid leave, will add a massive damage to this industry – I experience this in Harbach, in the Waldviertel, in this spa with 250 employees. I very much ask him to reconsider these demands, because this is damaging to tourism. Federal Minister Farnleitner! I was with some others yesterday at a discussion in Zwentendorf, which was about the mountain law. All five parties – I expressly say: all five parties! There, vehemently asked for a change of this law. The representative of the ÖVP there was the Lower Austrian Landtag member Friewald. Unfortunately, no other Member of the House was present during this discussion. He has said that he will organise an appointment with you so that a debate will be held. I would ask you to take this issue actively so that we can achieve a reorganisation of mountain law in a reasonable way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e4775	Next speaker is Mrs Ing. Langthaler. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e4796	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Parnigoni has just told – and I would like to add briefly at the moment – that in some regions there are huge problems with a concrete law, whatever you are responsible for. We also discussed this last week with you on the date in question, and yesterday we promised the audience, about 300 extremely dedicated people, that we are working to get an appointment with you quickly – all five parties represented in Parliament! – to discuss the question of mountain law and natural destruction in this area, which is unfortunately always possible. This is, of course, in some way related to today's issue here, because tourism in Austria, which is undoubtedly one of Austria's most important economic areas, is, of course, related to the beauty of the landscape in Austria, and on the other hand, it is necessary to ask why people come to us. – Of course, this is also due to cultural goods, because of the cultural offer. In this area in recent years in Austria has actually been very, very much done, and especially the figures in urban tourism show that there is an absolutely attractive offer here that there is no crisis, but – quite the contrary – increases. In both areas, we have to come back to the following – I always try to talk about the debate on tourism –: It is still lacking that there is such a low level of service mentality, both in the field of gastronomy, but even if it is a question of going as a tourist in Austria, in Salzburg or in Vienna, for example, simply to a theatre, to the opera or elsewhere. This is still linked to incredible bureaucrats in Austria, and it would be nice if the ministers – including the future – were to put themselves together for art and culture and that once for tourism, and how this could be made more attractive, service-oriented for tourists especially in the cities. I would like to address only one area that is very important to us today, namely how a new tourism report will be set up in the future, which we hope will be more up-to-date. Federal Minister! We have been discussing for many years that there should be something like a national environmental plan in Austria, and it has also been taken up by the last Minister for the Environment. This national environmental plan has been available for two years and is divided into different areas. One of the most prominent chapters in this area is tourism and leisure. If one reads through this chapter – and we have discussed this very thoroughly in the relevant subcommittee, which discussed this national environmental plan, with the working group leader – one sees that it contains very, very good proposals, especially as regards the area of conservation of the attractive, beautiful landscape in Austria in connection with tourism, and what one could do there. One thing I think is particularly useful, and that is why I would really ask you and your officials, in particular, to look at it more concretely once; I have also repeatedly ventured to discuss this chapter with you in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. I would ask you, Mr Minister, and also the chairman of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy - perhaps you can pass it on - to discuss this national environmental plan in connection with tourism in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, because it makes it particularly clear how small your skills are, and how important it is in this area, the interplay between the Federal Government, the countries and the municipalities. What has been done – and I am a little proud of that, because this has already been done because of our participation in the preparations for the national environmental plan, in all chapters, including energy, transport, water – is that there has been a very precise and detailed breakdown: the area on which it is concerned, the problem situation, the objective, the measures, the instruments, the time horizon and, above all, the actors. There are very specific proposals in this report. Mr Rossmann has rightly pointed out the many reports and studies that exist, but I also believe that if we were to use this national environmental plan and discuss it in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, it would be an important thing, including in the future tourism reports, to equip the measures with a certain time horizon and, above all, to make them more specific. It is therefore important not only to mention the federal, state and local authorities, but also to mention the opportunities that exist in the framework of EU funding and the like. This is to be understood as an incentive for your officials to really look at it, and you too, Mr Federal Minister, to read more precisely what has been conceived in many, many pages in this national environmental report. We could then discuss this in a committee, as we have tried to do in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, once again in a serious way. The fact that an intact nature is one of the most important resources for the tourism and leisure industry is probably beyond doubt. Similarly, there is no doubt that spatial planning in the countries is ill with trans-regional concepts, that individual funding is sought and that there are huge overcapacitys in the sleeping area, especially in rural areas. And there are still new buildings, and there is still a partly terrible distortion of the landscape with new hotels, which you no longer need in many regions at all. The causes of this are to be found in the lack of spatial planning plans, but above all in the lack of coordination between the different territorial authorities. And I keep saying this: They really only have limited possibilities to define framework conditions at the federal level. But what is extremely important to us in this context is a change in tax law. The main aim must be to increase the taxation of resources, especially energy, but at the same time to reduce the cost of labour at the same time. So once again the suggestion for all future tourism reports: Let us look at what has also been very well developed in other resorts on this area! And my suggestion to all my colleagues to hold a discussion on the national environmental plan in the next Economic Committee, with concrete time horizons, otherwise we will be holding a more or less exciting general debate on tourism every year, and we will be accusing – more or less strongly – the competent minister. If, however, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy is able to deal with it in a serious and detailed manner, we may also be able to work and discuss more targetedly here in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e4866	The next speaker is Mr Ellmauer. - Please. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e4887	Mr President. Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Cooperation, globalisation, all inclusive, networking, internet, booking via RHS, experience marketing – these are just a few words on the topics that the tourism industry has to deal with today. The 1995 report on the situation of the tourism and leisure industry addresses these issues in part. We live in a world that we feel is becoming more and more rapid, which is increasingly flexible. This applies not only to work but also to the leisure world. Vacations are increasingly planned and booked in the short term. The lack of taxation of aviation petrol is doing another thing. And so today our tourism industry stands in an increased competition with the whole world. Nevertheless, Austria is the most tourism-intensive country in the world. The average per capita income from tourism in the period under review was more than 18,000 S and was therefore one third higher than that of the second country of this "hit list", namely Switzerland. The decline of 3.5 percent in 1996 was lower than expected. The Wifo forecast for 1997 is a price-adjusted fall of just over 1 percent. In the winter of 1997, there will be a slight increase, meaning the base for the results of the year as a whole. However, the expert Smeral restricted his press conference on 8 February. January 1997 states that while opportunities still exist throughout the winter half of the year, alpine ski tourism itself stagnates. In summer, there will continue to be slight declines, so that a high level of local tourism stagnation must be expected for 1997. This high level has its cause, among other things, also in the high growth rates of the years 1989, 1990 and 1991, in which the unification of Germany could be used accordingly by our tourism industry. The structural weaknesses already identified before were covered by this development. It is now more important to deal consistently with these structural weaknesses. However, this is only possible through the corresponding joint efforts of both the tourism industry and the federal government, countries and communities. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Therefore, if the tourism industry has only one snap, let us not mention a flu. According to OECD, in 1995 Austria continued to be in the first place in relation to gross domestic product in terms of foreign exchange income. [[Abg. May. Peter: What does it mean that the business economy is for regions, Mr. Colleague? You play with numbers!]] Mr Peter, 6.3% of GDP remains a top priority. [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Peter.]] Mr Colleague, the market economic environment must be taken into account as well as the environment of individual regions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In 1996, Austria was again the most popular destination of German tourists. Around 13 percent of German travel terms have flown to Austria, which is exactly 9.6 billion D-Mark. On the other hand, Germany's travel revenues from Austria with 3.5 billion D-Mark were significantly lower, which means a positive travel balance of 6.1 billion D-Mark. However, the rapid decline in the current tourism surplus from 70 billion schilling in the early 1990s is causing me great concern at the moment only more than 20 billion schilling. However, this is mainly due to the Austrian foreign travel boom. Therefore, more appropriate marketing measures should be taken to ensure that we also address more guests from overseas. The currency savings are currently good again, so they were not three years ago. If you look at the US dollar today: Foreign exchange: 11.45 S or the UK pound: Foreign exchange means 19 s, it is seen that the values that were up to date three to four years ago are present. Therefore, market research, especially in tourism, is becoming increasingly important. The trend towards the "event", i.e. the spectacle and experience holiday, as well as the many out-of-house activities must be taken into account. To recognise trends in time and to respond accordingly, I will therefore require more and more vital research and marketing work for our tourism industry, as well as, at last, the networks and coordinations that have finally come into motion and the cooperation of all those involved. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Federal Minister! I would like to thank you and your officials for this report, which I welcome.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e4949	The next speaker is Mr Blünegger. You have also promised a voluntary time limit of 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e4970	High house! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Today we are talking about a jubilee brochure by Dr. Ditz, then Minister of Economic Affairs, to the extent of 110 pages, which unfortunately dates back to 1995. It would be more interesting to be able to talk about the year 1996. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Puttinger.]] This is my opinion, Mr Puttinger. The result of this jubilee brochure is that the causes of the problems of tourism are actually abroad. – But I think it's the home-made problem. No word is lost about a lack of economic policy by the government, no word about the enormous tax burden on tourism, and no matter what damage the "wonderful" savings package that this government has decided on means for tourism. The abolition of the losses, the estimated Ellmauer colleague, or the various amortizations that are no longer possible, are an anti-economic behaviour that has harmed tourism. On page 35 of the report, the Austrian tourism industry was unable to benefit from demand growth in 1995. – This described the prevailing tourism crisis. In fact, it is nothing but a false economic and tax policy. Mr Farnleitner! You were not ministers in 1995, but I would ask you to put some positive points into practice in this area. I am thinking, for example, of the release of tourism from bureaucracy, of a reduction in tourism-specific taxes and of more tourism-friendly tax laws. It is only in this way that we can ensure our competitiveness, which we need in relation to the international markets. Mr Federal Minister, you certainly know the numbers of unemployed in tourism. There is a very precise comparison between 1995 and 1996. In December 1996, 37 038 people were unemployed in tourism. This means an increase of 34 percent compared to 1995, which is alarming. In view of these alarming figures, taking into account the additional key position of tourism and adding up and down-to-date areas, such as agriculture, the sports industry and the retail trade in tourist communities, it can be seen that more jobs are surely lost, which may not be remedied. You know very well, ladies and gentlemen, that the word "Tourism crisis" has its right. This report also calls for an impact on the holiday regulations at European level. However, this report will try to discharge debt abroad. I think that's not the right way, but we need Austria, we have to fix our own house first. A typical example: The semester holidays in 1997 and the semester holidays in 2000 fall exactly in some federal states in the weeks of the carnival, where tourism has no problems with utilization. Mr Federal Minister, we are certainly not going to deal with the crises in tourism! At congresses that you attend, you are always very friendly, as you will always find good words for tourism. But we liberals want to see actions, we want to give security to the people employed in the tourism industry. Therefore, we say, away with the beverage tax!, and we also demand a reduction in the turnover tax in tourism to 5 per cent; Switzerland has recently reduced its sales tax to even 3 per cent. We also call for an adjustment of working hours to the actual conditions, the introduction of aliquota holiday entitlements, so that tourism does not bring about further terminations, and we also call for the abolition of the contract regime. We liberties will not agree to this report.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e5036	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Heindl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e5058	Mr President. Federal Minister! Whether 1995 or 1996: We all agree, I believe, that we should have reports of recent dates on tourism, and I think we also agree that this should happen in the future. I would like to join where Mr Peter has stopped. After all, I believe that as much critical as that is said: The real problem in the development of European tourism – I do not know, Mr Peter, whether one can describe it as a phenomenon, some of it is perhaps a phenomenon – lies on the one hand in changes in holiday behaviour, but on the other hand also in the development in international air traffic. All these components together show that, in about 91/92, a cut in the travel balances can be observed, whether in Italian, French, Spanish, Portuguese or ours. These are facts. But I don't want to address these details at all, but I say: I am of the opinion of Mr Peter and some others that the economic impact of tourism – including regional value added – is particularly important, and that is why I want to deal with the current account and travel balance. It has already been said that the surplus of travel has been reduced from an increase of almost 74 billion schilling in 1991 to nearly 30 billion schilling in 1995, and for the year 1996, we expect only more than 20 billion schilling – so, without a doubt, huge alarm signals, and yet we should not miss out on some of them. In 1991 the travel surplus was by far the highest, the highest ever in the Austrian travel balance. This is a sign that our tourism industry has done enormously, has contributed enormously to the development of this country, and it is also a sign that tourism can continue to take a strong position. As a reference to this need to be made, as I said earlier, restrictively: There are these phenomena since 1991/1992. In urban tourism, on the other hand, ladies and gentlemen – and this is also a positive sight – we have positive signals in some other areas despite crisis-like appearances. If I look at the figures from last year's Vienna, I can only say: It can't be any more beautiful. Nevertheless, this cannot mean: Let's go back, it's going well anyway! I would like to point out that there are also positive developments in all the critical conditions. Positive signals can also be seen in regions and businesses that have already taken cooperative measures. Mr Parnigoni has already mentioned a few figures here. Furthermore, I agree with colleagues Puttinger, we should not forget that we are still world leaders in tourism. Numbers have already been mentioned. This position must be defended – that is not a question – but it will not be easy. Nevertheless, I believe that we should not go the path of disease, but rather we must set up a number of activities, and I am entirely of the opinion of Mr Peter that we must develop a concept that we want and need to do as an economy, in the context of the export offensive, in a greater context than a kind of master plan, or as always we want to call it. Tourism, ladies and gentlemen, is the most important part of such a concept. This has to be done, not only in one year, but we must try to put in place short-term measures. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I have already mentioned this: Current account as well as travel balances have always been showing falling and rising trends over the last 15 years – you just have to look at it; I'll come back shortly afterwards – so we should not be mad if it is currently extremely extreme, even if it is admittedly very extreme this time. I have already pointed out the cheap flights, the completely changed travel habits. All this shows that we will not have to expect surpluses in the future, as we did a few years ago. In view of the rapidly changing world economy, the future of Austrian travel will hardly be able to wait with such surpluses as we have had in the last 25 years. What to do?, is the question. – The trade balance is the lever for improving the Austrian current account. That says, I think, except for discussion. Our great opportunities were and have been in export, because since 1945 the Austrian economy has been fully affected by: The higher the share of exports, the higher the prosperity in this country. And the tourism industry had a huge share of this positive development. Yes, Mr Peter: Tourism is still the most export-intensive industry in Austria, and the foreign trade has been and is the engine for further positive economic development. The conditions are in spite of Improvement needs are still good. That is my deep personal conviction on this question. The fact is that the export of goods is going well – this is also confirmed by Minister Farnleitner's statement about Japan – although we are hearing about other developments worldwide. So we're on the right track. Austria's external trade has a positive trend in 1996. According to a current Wifo estimate, exports grew by 4.2 percent in real terms last year, the IHS predicts even 5.2 percent, the imports of goods were only 3.1 percent in real terms, and the corresponding values at IHS were 3.9%. The international trade in goods was thus an important support for our economy. In addition, we have been able to gain market shares in international trade – which is very important for the trend. Ladies and gentlemen! All of this – I am convinced of that too – will be too little to reduce the current account deficit to an acceptable level. A look at the situation of Austrian foreign trade shows us how urgently necessary initiatives are in this area. Although the traditional trade deficit has been commuting between 100 and 120 billion schilling per year since the beginning of the 1990s, since the surplus of the travel balance has been so dramatically reduced, the current account has slid deeper and deeper into red figures: from around 21 billion schilling in 1994 to already 48 billion schilling in 1995, and this year it will be even more. Alert! Alert! Alert! I have to say. Our aim must therefore be to increase our export quota and to achieve comparable quotas of other smaller economies such as Belgium, Denmark and the Netherlands, as the rule of thumb applies: 1 per cent more export ratio means 1 per cent more employees. Ladies and gentlemen! Again, a few words on the current account. I have put the figures in the room before, and it is a story of success that is unusual if I look at these enormous increases from 1971 to 1991, whether it be the numbers of foreigners, or the income from foreign trade. The only thing to do with this is: In 1970 the revenue from foreign trade amounted to 25.9 billion Schilling, 1980 to 80.3 billion Schilling, 1990 to 152 billion Schilling. Behind it, employment is hidden, behind it is the rise of Austria to the welfare country. We have not yet done so in an exemplary way. However, what we need to see – and this is the trend – is that this has been going down slightly since 1991/92. Finally, in 1995, we were in receipts from foreign trade of 147 billion schilling. But what has been added – this is partly the result of this positive development –: The expenditure of the Austrians on foreign trade has partly run away from us. Here too the comparison: only 8 billion Schilling in 1970, already 40 billion Schilling in 1980, 87 billion Schilling in 1990, 117 billion Schilling in 1995. Ladies and gentlemen! So bitter for our current and travel balance: It is an expression of the fact that people can travel abroad and spend 117 billion schilling for it. This is not an expression of a country with which it goes down, but it is an expression of a country in which people feel comfortable, in which they deserve something and in which they can afford it! I am resisting the constant sluggishing, with us everything would be so bad, as bitter as these numbers are. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! On the other hand, something has to be done, and my firm conviction is that we have three main objectives to improve the current account: On the one hand, we must be able to increase exports. There is a particular demand for industry, and the way with these joint ventures to Japan, to China, as we have seen now, is the right way. Furthermore, I am convinced that there is still enough potential in the field of high-quality services. That's where we can get a lot more percentage points. Thirdly, I am convinced that appropriate structural measures will succeed in improving in tourism the balance between expenditure abroad and income in domestic travel, thereby restoring the current account and the overall travel balance. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e5167	Mrs Schaffenrath is now speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e5188	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We are now discussing the 1995 tourism report, but in fact the reality of the year 1996 already shows a completely different picture than was finally predicted in this report. This is, in particular, of dramatic importance for Tyrol, and I believe that you understand that our confidence in your forecasts is actually falling. In fact, you have announced in your report that the demand in the tourism sector would fall slightly in 1996. The opposite was the case: In Tyrol there were massive collapses. The study of the Institute for Tourism Spatial Planning shows a drop in winter tourism during the last four seasons of 9.2 percent. In summer, the situation is even more dramatic. Now, of course, you could say that you were wrong, because you speculated – if the situation for Tyrol was not so dramatic. We already have the lowest economic growth in all of Austria, and we already have the highest growth in unemployment. Hiebei is a number, as I believe, of particular importance: For example, the unemployment rate among women from 1995 to 1996 in Tyrol increased by 66.5 percent! Ladies and gentlemen! Although the start of this winter season in individual regions of Tyrol was a rather more encouraging one, I do not think that it could be a result of a trend change. The situation for this Christmas tree was an extraordinary one. The Christmas holidays are very convenient, the snow came in sufficient quantities, at the right time – but there is no guarantee – and I also believe that with events in Tyrol – the ski opening, but also the candidate St. Antons for the World Championships – you could achieve additional advertising effects. The disillusionment came immediately, she followed on her foot. The press reports: "Tourism fell into a deep January hole. There are dramatic January gaps." A hotelman from the Kitzbühel region says: "Where else more than 20 employees care for the well-being of the guests, there is currently a cook, a cleaning force and a waiter's feet in the belly." Another means: "We had never had so few guests in January. You can almost compare the business with October." And if Mr Ellmauer, I think Austria would still be the most popular destination of German tourists, I would just like to inform him that in Tyrol we have received very constructive criticism from the largest tour operators in Germany, in which they point to the essential areas of problem. First of all, these are the advertising weaknesses in Austrian tourism. For example, the month of October, which is a holiday month in some German federal states, is partly not applied at all or far too little. A major problem is the cost factor, especially in the area of so-called hidden costs – food, drinks, ski passes and so on – and of course debates around the Vignette are also strengthening the image of Austria as – I quote – "Abzocker-Land". But it was the decisions of this coalition and it was the laws that you have passed that caused the tourism and the leisure industry exactly the costs that the guest no longer wants to pay or can't pay anymore, no matter whether this is the Austrian or the foreign guest, especially when travelling to low-cost countries attracts. If this report on page 75 really correctly acknowledges that, for example, the State should contribute to strengthening the competitive position of the tourism sector by affecting the European holiday system, by flexibilising working hours, through a rapid reduction in the degree of red tape, I wonder: How does reality really look? – According to your report, the cost factor for work is increasing in relation to turnover from 1990 to 1993 – here, Mr Rossmann is wrong; not the figures in 1994, in part even the figures from 1993 are found in this report – by 4 percent. This is a particular burden for this sector, where service is an essential quality feature. Where, I ask you, are the necessary flexible working time models? The Liberals in this House – we can say now, for years now – demand an annual working-time model for this industry, which would lead to a significant improvement in the situation. And I'm asking you: What have you done so far to reduce this bureaucracy? – I really want to tell you an example from Tyrol: The dining room of a Tyrolean hotel is burnt out. This operation must work throughout the winter season with only 50 percent of the potential capacity. The structural restoration would have been easy until the beginning of the winter season, but the administrative settlement scandalously not. Ladies and gentlemen! The Liberals are also in favour of a European holiday system, but until then we need reasonable regulations within Austria, which do not affect the tourism industry, the damage to the leisure industry and ultimately also at the expense of the relaxation of Austrian children. It was the EIA with its chairman in the Committee on Education, who has so far held down the establishment of a subcommittee for the discussion of this holiday scheme. In this case, you must at least bear the responsibility for having a semester holiday collision in Vorarlberg, Tyrol and Salzburg with our neighboring countries very important for our tourism in February. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! This report also criticises the poor ones – it is very cautiously expressed in the report, but I say: the poor – financing conditions, especially small and medium-sized enterprises. It is no longer a secret that this industry is indebted to 120 billion schillings and that, in the end, even unthinked capacity expansions will mean that up to a third of the companies – voluntarily or compulsively – will have to withdraw from the market quite simply. Create It is at least those conditions which are absolutely necessary for an orderly withdrawal of these plants in the sense of structural adjustment. You didn't. They have doubled the tax rate for often only purely fictitious sales profits. They thus take any chance of a future for those companies who want to leave, who need to leave. In addition, there is little willingness, particularly at the level of the Tyrolean state and local authorities, to carry out necessary conversions, to develop a reasonable spatial planning concept and eventually to introduce existing structures to housing, but also to provide for residences, for second residences. We do not want free areas to be prevented from green areas. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] It is also important for us to point out that, of course, the initiative of tourism, the leisure industry is also needed, because the new requirements of the guests simply depend on new ideas and concepts. Many businesses also invest money and energy and try to score with imagination and a lot of creativity in this increased competition, but your attitude, the attitude of responsible politicians, is really not support, because the motto "wait and see!" is not a formula for success. The companies need necessary changes and the appropriate framework conditions for them, but they have so far – I would say almost – refused to be consistently responsible. I would just like to mention a few words here: Commercial reform, tax reform – my colleague Helmut Peter has already pointed to the sales tax problem in the area of Logis – new financing models, annual working-time models. I'm really wondering: When are you acting? Because acting instead of talking would be the foreign exchange! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] The whole industry needs a decision-making shift from the government, from the responsible, it needs new framework conditions, so that, in the final consequence, it can also with courage change and with a legitimate optimism, with an optimism with a view to success, as I believe, in principle marketable product such as tourism in Austria in general, such as tourism in Tyrol in particular with its landscape, with its high-quality businesses to make it a successful product again.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e5286	Next speaker is Mrs Gatterer. – Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e5307	Mr President. Federal Minister! First of all, I would like to stress that, despite the declines in figures already explained by my previous speakers, Austria is a 'European champion' in tourism. This is also the reason why we are particularly pained by a decline in tourism. However, I am very surprised that the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is acting as if it had found all the solutions and knew exactly how to bring tourism back to better figures. Mr Blünegger, for example, has spoken of "home-made problems", and I must also ask a little: How does this look in Carinthia, where the Freedom Party has been presenting the tourister for years? – The collapses in tourism are by far the largest in Carinthia. I would like to take a brief look at the tourism balance of your country's deputy Grasser: Winter 1994 minus 6.2%, January to July 1996 minus 8.2%, May to August 1996 minus 10.5%, August 1996 minus 14.6%. I already admit that in tourism, it is also necessary to change framework conditions, to limit bureaucracy in order to make tourism more competitive, but taxes apply throughout Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Who is responsible there? Mrs Colleague, who is responsible for such conditions?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rossmann.]] There you have to tell me why exactly your speaker, your liberal speaker in Carinthia, where you bear responsibility, will receive the worst results from all over Austria. You have to explain that to me! I think you really need an explanation. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I would just like to say something to your member of the EU and probably or hopefully non-citizens of Klagenfurt: In any case, it has been able to advertise Austria from 1987 to 1995, and if you look at the 1995 report – you only criticize it very late – you see that it has not been successful and has basically lost its function because of not being successful. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: But he's had a monthly gift that a minister can only dream of!]] [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: What did he deserve?]] Another thing about the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. I am very surprised, Mr Rossmann, that you say here, for example, that fewer and fewer foreigners are coming to Austria. [[Abg. Rossmann: I didn't say that!]] They are the ones who have made a popular desire for Zigmillions of taxpayers, which said: We don't like foreigners in Austria! And then you wonder that tourists no longer put Austria as a travel destination in the first place. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You don't know what you're talking about!]] I would like to comment on the motion for a resolution you have tabled: You know, the Court of Auditors is examining in connection with the vignette. I mean, we should wait for the reports. It will certainly be possible to discuss this in detail in the Committee. For this reason, the ÖVP will reject your request. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Kiermaier.]] I have now already, and for myself, rejected enough of my speaking time with the liberals and therefore I would like to bring in some other things. Framework conditions are important. I support, for example, that you, Mrs Rossmann - the ÖVP has long called for this - demand that there be a more generous arrangement for apprentices in the summertime, that there be flexible times. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Maybe you say that to the other side!]] I believe that tourism should also consider whether there is the possibility of providing part-time jobs in connection with women. That would be very, very important. A few words on the long-distance journeys. We always say that long-distance travel is basically a heavy burden for us. The flights are very cheap. Mrs Rossmann, who has read the tourism report safely, says on the one hand, the Austrians have to save very much, they can no longer afford vacations in Austria. On the other hand, however, one must also say that they spend much more money than they used to for long - distance travel. They seem to have money, but we have to create a good mood in our country so that the Austrians stay in the country more and more. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: But you are not able to do this!]] They are still our best guests – the guests in their own country, the Austrians in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: As long as we still have the schilling!]] Through cheap flights, opportunities for tourism may also arise, because 95 percent of our guests from abroad come from countries around Austria. I would like to say that, along with the fact that the dollar is a very hard currency, it is a great opportunity for Austria to apply for these guests in an overseas offensive and bring them to come to us. At the end of the day, I am allowed to make advertising on my own account on holiday in my own country. Carinthia presented yesterday the application for the 2006 Winter Olympics, to be conducted by Carinthia, Slovenia and Friuli-Venezia Veneto. This would also be an important tourism initiative for Carinthia and, above all, for Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e5476	Mrs Rossmann referred to an actual correction. Madam Member, I give the floor to you. Speech time: 2 minutes. Please start the correction with the presentation of the facts you want to correct.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e5500	Mrs Gatterer said that I had said in my speech that there would be fewer and fewer foreigners to Austria. In fact, I am correct in saying that I have spoken about declines in turnover and declines, but not of fewer foreigners coming to Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e5530	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Schreiner. – Ladies and gentlemen, I give the floor to you. You have announced a four-minute voluntary limit on speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e5552	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Puttinger, you said that the ÖVP had always expressed the view that the tax burden for unabsorbed profits should not be equal to that of normal profits. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: Yes!]] Mr Puttinger! Why do you and your group have the request for half the tax rate for the unabsorbed profit in the 130s? The 1990 meeting was rejected? In 1993 the same request was made by the liberals – the ÖVP refused. There is now a corresponding motion for a resolution in the Financial Committee. I'm curious what the ÖVP will do. Mr Puttinger, you are actually part of this picture as a third party, as the crasher, when you say out here that the EIA is of the opinion that there should be half the tax rate for unabsorbed profits but do the opposite in the Committee. [[The speaker lifts a sheet to the height]] [[Complaints with the liberals]] In Sunday's speeches, you say so, you vote against it in committee. That's the crash party! They belong here as a third party in this picture, and many members of the ÖVP or, in fact, all belong to this picture, Mr. Puttinger. [[Abg. Mr Puttinger: Mr Colleague! Calm down!]] I really have to tell you that. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: You're just gonna get rid of it!]] No, Mr Puttinger, I do not waive, I ask for half the tax rate for unscathed profits. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: You're just gonna get rid of it! You'll also get rid of the beverage tax! Where's that going? Why don't you think about it?]] You will have to confess the colour of this motion for a resolution, which is now in the Committee on Budgets, and you will not be able to tell without a break here, we would be in favour, but then if it gets serious when it comes to getting involved, then... [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: What do you really want to do? You just want to get rid of it! What are you doing? Tell me!]] What we are planning is perfectly formulated in our free movement initiatives. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: What are you doing?]] You are invited to join this motion for a resolution. I now come to the report on the situation of tourism. High house! Three areas of problem have become apparent in the debate today: the question of the conditions, the question of the lack of economic efficiency of tourism, the high tax burden. I would like to add one aspect. We are in the European Union, and we will have to ask ourselves the question, Mr Federal Minister, whether 70 percent of the around 270 billion schilling of structural funding should go to countries such as Objective 1 regions Greece and Portugal and Objective 5b areas Italy and Spain, funds that revive tourism there, strengthen tourism, and we are almost directly competing with our own tax funds. This is to be said very soberly from this point of view. Federal Minister! There's a second thing I'd like to keep to you today. We've already talked about the motorway vignette today. Are you not of the opinion that a Kasperl Theatre belongs to a Kasperl? [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: Jörg Haider is the Kasperl!]] Your colleague from the ÖVP, the Lower Austrian countryman Ignaz Hofmacher, has today written a press service – I quote from it literally –: "Labg called it a real Kasperl Theatre. Ignaz Hofmacher the approach of Austria around the motorway vignette. It cannot be that drivers, especially holidaymakers, are harassed by constant traffic controls because they do not yet have a motorway vignette. Thus, the Ministry of the Interior's instructions that a car driver without vignette must make ‘believable’ that he had no opportunity to buy a vignette, certainly nothing but a bad joke.” Federal Minister! Are you the Kasperl now, or is Minister of the Interior One of the Kasperl, because this regulation has been signed by you, and that is published in the Federal Law. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: No, the Haider is the Kasperl!]] This is a regulation of the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs concerning the exception from the obligation to to to do so. What should we say in Lower Austria to the Landtagsreiter Hofmacher, who belongs to your group, who is a member of the ÖVP Group of the Lower Austrian Parliament? Mr President. High house! That is why I put forward a motion for a resolution tabled by Members of Parliament. [[Quoted print version removed]] Federal Minister! I think it is high time that this motion for a resolution finally came into this vignette chaos. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e5745	The one by the honourable Member Mag. Schreiner's motion for a resolution, which has just been submitted, is sufficiently supported by business regulations, is included in the negotiations. I now have a speech from Mr Kiermaier. They are satisfied with a speech time of 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e5769	Mr President. High house! Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! As the twelfth speaker on this subject, I would like to try to repeat as little as possible what has already been said today. In my speech to the previous report, I meant that there is no reason for joy and that the next report will probably be the same. The fact is, it is so, and the next one will be no reason for joy. It is now true that one of the main reasons, namely the economic situation, is to seek first and foremost in our neighbouring country Germany. I can confirm from my own experience that the buses were partly only half full. Buses with 50 seats have come with 20 people. A number of companies have had to cancel due to a lack of number of participants. These are, of course, facts that you cannot simply wipe away. Nevertheless, I made my way back undamaged and spent a week in Germany on an advertising tour. I think this is an important way. If today we are constantly talking about the Austrian advertising, I believe that it can only create framework conditions. There is nothing to replace your own advertising abroad. I have a considerable number of bookings for next year. I just hope that the buses will be a little full again in the future. Of course, the weaknesses in the equity of businesses and the earlier funding under the principle of casting canning, which was wrong, are all problems, but also – and I do not want to conceal this – the too high personnel costs. We have heard it today: an increase of up to 4 percent. It is really important, I believe, that one also gives an opinion on the question of value added – and this is already happening several times today. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! For example, if you have heard of the more often that it is always complained that the secondary services in Austria are too expensive – the famous mineral water, which is far too expensive, which is a nonsense, and other things – then, I must say, I give you absolutely right. However, I would also like to ask you to pay attention to the following: Today, if the computer expert comes to a restaurant and builds the PC or the registration bank, he requires hourly rates of 1 000 s and above. And nobody – nobody at all! – gets upset about it. Or: If the moneur comes from the coffee machine or the ice machine or the one that repairs the elevator, then these people demand prices that are beyond good and evil. Or: If today a device is broken in a kitchen, a Nirosta part, then prices are required to make the pharmacies prices all honor. These are topics that must be tailored. There is such unsitting today that some service companies even calculate a "rust time"; when the craftsman invites the tool into the car, he already charges the customer until he arrives. All of this can't do a gastronomy business. It would be really ridiculous if today a gastronomy said I would charge the customer a "cooking time", because we have been cooking since 7 o'clock in the morning and not only since 12 o'clock in the morning. – Such and similar insanity must also be clearly mentioned here. Ladies and gentlemen! It is also the case that we have to consider how to handle this cost situation. It can not only be that we are interested in urban gastronomy, in high gastronomy. Cross-border in this country is now also the middle structure, the inn with five to 20 employees, and exactly this category is today most at risk. If we want to have – and this is already true today – that in the mountain valleys, in the regions of the gastronomy, there is a guarantee that there will also be income, then it is important that we try together in real partnership with agriculture and with all the other farms to maintain this structure. I would like to conclude with a quote from our divorced Chancellor, who meant: Let's make tourism a national concern. . I fully agree with this statement, and I believe that the new report, which is now under consideration and is to be adapted temporarily, will certainly help to combat some weakness more quickly and efficiently. As a result, tourism will again reach the level that we are actually accustomed to and which is also beneficial to this country. A final word on the motion for a resolution on this subject, which has been tabled here today. I fully endorse the comments made by Mr Gatterer. I also think that this report should be included in the committee and dealt with accordingly. We also have the commitment from the ÖVP. The forthcoming Court of Auditors report will, of course, provide sufficient information on this. That is why we do not need this request today and cannot give it our approval. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e5827	Mr Farnleitner, President of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his excellent report. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e5848	Mr President. High house! I would just like to say what we have been discussing in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, namely that the tourism report drawn up last year will have a different structure, that it will address many of the issues raised here today, and that we will then be able to discuss problems in a different way, because it is above all about developing questions which have not yet been raised.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e5875	There is no more word message. The debate is closed. A final word on the part of the rapporteur is not wanted. I ask you to take the seats. We now have two votes to vote. I would like to begin by voting on the Committee's request to take note of this report III-41 of the additions. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of this report to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. The report has been accepted by the majority. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Schreiner and comrades on the report on damage to tourism by the chaos around the Mautpickerl. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. 2. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the special report of the Court of Auditors (III-25 of Supplements) on the Joint Undertaking (405 of Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e5942	We're now on the 2nd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are immediately entering the debate. As the first speaker, Mr Dipl.-Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). – Ladies and gentlemen, I give the floor to you. I was informed of a voluntary time limit of 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e5972	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! As part of the liberalisation of the electricity market, the structure of the Austrian electricity industry will have to be substantially changed, with the aim of achieving international competitiveness and thus also securing Austria as an economic location. When I get the "Economics Week" of the 3rd century. In October I read an interview with former Chief of Association Fremuth that the fact that something has existed for 50 years and has produced such successes clearly allows him to conclude that this structure is absolutely good, has proved itself and must therefore be maintained. Ladies and gentlemen! I think that this statement in itself is characteristic of the 'will to change', for the 'will to be ready', as I think it is necessary to change the structure of the electricity industry. I have the slight suspicion that an Austrian minimal solution will be sought to achieve EU conformity, but it is obvious that the protected areas of the e-commerce in the form we know them will be preserved as far as possible, i.e. safeguarding the position of power by maintaining the possibility of party intervention. Ladies and gentlemen! However, there are not only the problems of protected areas, there are also some bodies in the basement, such as the contract between the Graz-Köflacher-Eisenbahn- und Mininggesellschaft, the GKEB, a subsidiary of Austrian mining holding company, and Donaukraftwerke AG, a subsidiary of the combined company. [[Abg. Koppler: GKEB – what is that? It's a contract!]] This is a contract concluded in 1982. [[Further call of the Abg. Headmaster.]] Of course, but also a contract can show its problems! [[Abg. Koppler: That's it! But you said "sleeves"!]] I should like to add, Mr Koppler. I assume you will speak. This contract was concluded by 2008: It includes the obligation to deliver 1 million tonnes of lignite at a fixed price each year. As a result of the change in the dollar price and the change in energy prices for crude oil, gas and coal, the joint venture, the customer, causes an annual damage of around 250 million schillings. This, in turn, has to be borne by the final consumer, namely the compulsory know-how of the individual national companies, the electricity industry. This concerns industry, and this concerns individual households. Ladies and gentlemen! We have another problem, the power plant Freudnau. Collaborator Haider says that this power plant would and should not be built today, because it is uneconomic and because we have a remarkable electricity surplus in Austria. Nevertheless, its completion will be sought! The price of 1.30 s per kilowatt hour will also affect the sacks of the consumer, the consumer. When Professor Stefan Schleicher places a savings potential of around 20 billion schilling throughout the E-Economie economy and in addition represents the position – and I think he is an expert – that one third of the approximately 27,000 employees are superfluous, this also sheds a significant light on the situation of the e-business today. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Haider has called the Court of Auditors a savings potential of around 3 million schillings. Ladies and gentlemen! I referred to the protected areas at the outset. From today's point of view, since many things are already obvious, it is all the more incomprehensible that, as a result of the establishment of a subsidiary of the association, namely the plan of association, a head of the company – it is still understandable that there must be one – who gets a contract that would certainly not be achieved in the private sector: Mr Giljum receives a contract with a gross annual budget of 1.68 million schilling! Well, it can be said that this would also be possible in the private sector. However, if one knows that there is an additional flat rate of 200 000 S expenditure, that there is a housing allowance of 280 000 S, that there was also a remuneration of 860 000 S for 1995 and that, at the beginning of each year, there is agreement with Mr Giljum, who also sets out the company's objective, a remuneration up to the level of 100 per cent of the gross annual value, is not envisaged but is fixed by contract, then the citizen, the compulsorily, does not really understand that. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There is one in this area, as I do my bloated administration. In fact, a reorganisation of the e-business is required. The bids are to increase efficiency, the benefits of savings potential, the savings that exist compared to competitive companies, including the special companies. Ladies and gentlemen! It is not clear that, to this extent, investments in power plant construction continue to be made, as is the case. Let me also say that the joint plan, the subsidiary of the interlocutory company which I have already referred to, has now taken up with the same benefits those supposedly 350 employees who have been reduced on the part of the association – and this has been extended as a positive – with the same contracts, with the same pension rights. In addition, although the task of the plan is very limited – which power plants are already built except Freudnau, there is no need – a Czech planning office is occupied with a workforce of 300 people, with an employment guarantee. This, ladies and gentlemen, is incomprehensible. There are, and I have already mentioned this, long-term coordination agreements between Union and ETUs. I believe that these long-term contracts are anticompetitive. There are contracts up to the duration of 29 years. It does not take into account the changes in industry – e.g. self-current production through combined heat and power. We need to be able to react quickly. The E-Economics is required to offer the necessary solutions in fact, i.e. the elimination of these long-term purchasing obligations and also of the minimum registration requirements. It is necessary to react quickly to changes in the energy sector. Ladies and gentlemen! That's the second thing. Nationalization law is not EU-compliant, there is hope that there will be a change or abolition in this regard. It can be seen that in Austria a sum of small solutions are being sought. In comparison to the international competition, there is a small struggle between alliances and national societies. This is about the expansion of positions of power, which is best observed in the example of Lambbach. Lambach is to be built to reduce the alleged dependence of the Upper Austrian power plants on the compound. [[Abg. Murauer: And electricity from renewable energy will be available! How many times do you want to say that?]] Mr President, I should like to thank You have the problem – and you yourself know – that you must, of course, support the Maker image of Mr. Landeshuptmann Pühringer, whom he wanted to provide with the construction of this power plant, Lambach. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This power plant is economic and industrial nonsense. [[New condolences with the liberals.]] There is a range of combined head of Haider – and you know that, I suppose, also – after which the combination would supply the Upper Austrian power plants electricity at a price at which the OKA can not produce even if the power plant Lambach is built and paid off, i.e. the repayments have been made. This does not interest the OBA general director or the owner representative, Mr. Landeshuptmann Pühringer – the main thing, Lambach is being built. [[Abg. Murauer: How long will he be available? And where does the electricity come from? You have to say that!]] Please do not address the issue of jobs, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I do not mind if these 600, 800 million schillings, which are intended for the Lambach power plant, are useful in the field of insulation, saving energy, increasing efficiency and thus also increasing the number of jobs. There's absolutely nothing about that. This money would be useful. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] However, in order to remain with the OKA, I think it is quite crazy that, as a result of liberalisation and economic changes, which naturally result in the Upper Austrian power plants, one goes to the search for a foreign strategic partner. I do not think it would be possible if a change in nationalization in Austria would result in a nationalization abroad by taking in a foreign strategic partner. We need, as I believe, a reasonable pool solution with a coordinated, energy-efficient, operational, economic and ecologically meaningful use of power plants to ensure Austria's economic location.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e6088	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Steindl. - Please, you have the floor. You too want to get out with 10 minutes of speech.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e6109	Mr President! Minister! Ladies, gentlemen! The request of the Free Party to the Court of Auditors was to carry out an examination of electricity pricing and electricity price conversion in Austria and the impact of EU accession. The results of the examination are set out in this Special Report. It can generally be noted that the Court of Auditors is giving a good witness to the association for the work so far. The coordination agreements between associations and national societies, which reflect mutual rights and obligations, are generally in order. That is to say, in my opinion, the scandalous spectacle announced by the liberals in the context of this special report – and this has already been confirmed in the Committee – is totally empty, because the report is beneficially different from other Court of Auditors reports. [[Abg. Scheibner: Rejoice that something good may come true.]] But I do not want to hide that there are, of course, also suggestions and criticisms to be found, no question. Despite the criticism of the duration and possibly rigid regulations in these contracts, they have so far been a guarantee of a reasonable and high-quality power supply in Austria. It is particularly interesting to read this report, especially in terms of national economic considerations, to see the impact of an increase in the price of electricity on the competitiveness of enterprises, on the real income of households and on gross domestic product. – The distortions of competition in the business sector are rather small. Real income is reduced by 0.2 per cent at 10 per cent electricity price increase and GDP is slightly dampened by 0.1 per cent. In any case, price increases are lower at national level to the extent that they have always been discussed in the public. The Court of Auditors has also given its opinion on the highly criticised staff costs. I mean – I might say to some critic – that some manager salaries are really not, even for me, explainable – you have to admit that openly – because in times of salary pyramids and savings there would be some measure. But the commitment has been made – and this was also a requirement – that the staff level should be reduced by at least 15 percent between 1990 and 1997. According to the Association Director, this edition was already fulfilled in 1996, I heard. We could look at details of this report. I do not want to do this now, but look to the future. It is now important to see how the joint group in the European area is trimming in line with the market. It is primarily – and this should dominate the discussion in public – that it is a reorganisation of the e-economics. The initial situation can be compared with other countries, but not in some areas. In Austria, for example, there is no nuclear power, it is prohibited – but not in the EU. So there are countries that produce cheaply with nuclear power, that is what we have to say. With regard to power supply, there is decentralisation in many countries – as in Austria. There are also the EU Internal Market Directives on electricity which entered into force at the beginning of January 1997. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Mentil.]] Mr. Commissioner, have you slept badly today because you are talking in between? I don't understand! Let's talk about it later in the couloirs, will we? These Internal Market Directives contain only rules for the introduction and safeguarding of competition, but not property and social requirements, nor do they provide for a particular form of organisation. There are already a number of discussions on this subject at the head of state, a concept which was unanimously decided to strengthen cooperation, in which efforts were made to redraft the status of the state companies and to take up a kind of risk distribution with the combined society. So there's a lot going on in this regard. Mr Farnleitner has also announced a new Energy Organisation Act. There are also proposals on the part of the Federal Minister for "Reconciling", which I already know. Everything must be discussed, nothing must fall under the table. This must not only be left to the national societies and associations, but must also be discussed here in the house even more often. However, I believe that this enhanced cooperation, these barriers – there is also a proposal that national societies should take on a share, at least of the block minority, in the joint society – should be put on the table openly and then decided as quickly as possible. This is what the people expect of us, we owe it. We should stop wavering in the past, but we should look forward and decide on a good law. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e6168	The next speaker is Mr Dr Kier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e6189	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This Court of Auditors report gives the opportunity to make some fundamental comments on future energy and electricity policy, but it is also necessary to deal with individual aspects of the report itself. In particular, I also believe that I can relate to my previous speakers, for example, to the statements by Mr Hofmann, who has very aptly described what happens when dirigism leads the spring. Although the Treaty between the ÖDK and the SCI was well meant in 1982, it is simply anachronistic, as we know and how we can draw on the Court of Auditors' report and hear it clearly in the discussion with the Boards of the Association Society. He's been the child of a supply crisis phase. In 1982 the second oil price shock was still quite fresh. The main focus has been on making long-term contracts. [[Abg. Koppler: Member, that was vital for colleagues!]] One element I would like to mention to Mr Koppler was the safeguarding of mining in the Köflacher region, in the West Styrian coal region. In the meantime, however, there is the problem that there are three annual needs, because the whole supply situation has changed quite differently, and that a mining has been opened up, namely Oberndorf. This open-labeling means that the lignite, which is not very consistent, falls on site if it is not mined. But we have not developed any imagination, which could otherwise be done with this lignite, because this Treaty at the same time meant that the SCI is understandably looking to comply with the Treaty, because it is vital for it, but the ÖDK cannot actually live with it. Under the rule, we have a national electricity price burden related to the whole of Austria, which is classified in the order of 250, 300 million Schilling. This is already portable, because this is still under one giant per kW, in relation to the total Austrian power consumption level, but it is not very useful, because we could also need these giants in other places. If Mr Steindl said from the ÖVP that the economic situation is not quite so sensitive and that price fluctuations of 10 percent do not have a significant impact on the employment situation and on the cost of living, that is true. In fact, electricity consumption is not the only thing you have to do if you represent your life's term, but it's only part of it. If anywhere is increased by 10 percent, it doesn't hit the whole thing so much. That does not mean, however, that we should use these electricity price components pointlessly, for example, by paying Halden in Voitsberg, Halden von Braunkohle, which has been taken out of the Tagbau, although there is no corresponding need and no corresponding electricity – and I do not want to address the environmental aspects of electricity now, that is the next element. This is not quite trouble-free, although Voitsberg is a relatively modern power plant. However, all of these statements that we have now made would also apply if, for example, we were to raise taxes in the context of an environmental tax reform, which, however, would mean that we are being reworked and not just unilaterally burdened – I do not want to do so. It should not apply at once, since it is no longer recognised that price elasticity in the case of pipeline-bound energies such as electricity is actually greater than is generally thought to be. That is why, I think, this Court of Auditors report and also the discussion in the Court of Auditors Committee are very instructive, because it is clear that, as a result of this, it is always argued as you need it, but that the overall agreement is being abolished. You can also see this clearly on the painful topics of Hell and Lambbach. Then immediately the call comes: This is environmentally friendly energy! – Of course, something that is produced in a hydropower plant is environmentally friendly, which nobody disputes. It only raises the question: Is it responsible that, at a false point in time, a hydropower plant is being built in a wrong place, which brings economic burdens, has employment-politically negligible positive effects, short-term small painkilling elements, and in this case the competitiveness of the society concerned, namely the OKA, and the overall system, and is faced with a massive front of environmental protection? You drive the excavator over the people, so to speak, to give them higher electricity prices. So I mean, that's no longer clear at all. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Of course, the motives are quite different. One wants to be able to show an investment in one's own territory, whether it's still so small, and if it's still so uneconomic. It was unmistakable in the Committee how on express questioning – a question of knowledge was that – the Board of Directors of the Association Society explained: Of course, we are able to supply electricity in a sustainable, long-term and secure manner, at prices that are clearly below what Lambach will cost, and which are clearly below what the hell will cost. A guarantee for the next 100 years is not such a thing, of course. But if Lambach is a useful project – what I doubt – then it can be built in five years if it is to be found that the supply situation on the combined level has changed. Then it does not have to be built today against massive resistance, with the reduction of legal remedies and so on, that is the decisive thing to do with it. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] All of this means that we clearly have a structural problem. And as much as I am on and on myself a friend of decentralization and as much autonomy as possible on site: We will need a new electricity organisation structure. The Federal Minister has already spoken about this, and there are already discussions. But it won't be. If we really want to create a reasonable electrical structure, then ultimately no stone remains on the other. It will then be a building in which the federal states can feel comfortable, in which the Austrian interests are well covered, but it will have to look different from what is now the case. This does not mean that anyone wants to shorten the rights of participation, and the claimed argument of the federal states, one wants to disarm them, is completely out of the air. The only question is that the rights of participation must be designed in such a way that they are viable. In addition, I can already remind you: This Internal Market Directive is an external obligation to improve structures. He is not a direct guide to certain structures, we have to create them ourselves. But that we cannot continue with the present structures, everyone who knows himself in the electricity scene knows. It is a mirror fighting to act as if it did not require any basic reform work, with a network society that is actually known as a composite society, with "unbundling", i.e., the separation of business objects generation, supply and bulk transport, so that a cost-controlling sharing of power is introduced into the system, and in particular so that we can exist in international competition. The price pressure from outside has many reasons: One is dumping over the needy, because extremely expensive French nuclear industry. I have to say this clearly: These are dumping prices, which are priced by the military sector. But this is a phenomenon that we have to deal with as long as we do not succeed in achieving at European level that this dumping does not happen, that nuclear power can only be sold at full cost, i.e. at real cost. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] But as long as this is not the case, we must live by the fact that this phenomenon exists. There are already much more efficient structures in many countries of Western Europe. That is why we have decided to present some of the Court of Auditors' recommendations in a resolution here to the House. [[Quoted print version removed]] These are recommendations from the Court of Auditors, enriched by the need to protect against abuse that are valid in each organisational system. They are, therefore, something that this House could share in the structural reform of the electricity industry. These principles must apply – regardless of whether we stay there, as I do not hope – whether we can implement a modern structural concept – what I hope – or whether a structural concept can only be developed half and half because it corresponds to the need for compromise – which I fear. But in each of these variants, we need this philosophy within the framework of public misuse control for electricity prices – regardless of whether the Ill plants belong to the State of Vorarlberg, whether they are privatized or whether they are part of a whole, regardless of whether the ÖDK belongs to this or that, and whether the Danube power plants continue to be almost exclusively owned by the combined company. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] We have to thank the Court of Auditors for knowing more about this report than we knew before. He has formulated recommendations that are balanced. I think it will be honest if we also give the Court of Auditors' recommendations as an explicit resolution of this House to the Federal Minister, because the Internal Market Directive and the organisational structure are one thing, the reality of domestic prices is the other. I do not want to see the sentence spoken by Mr Gruber about the EVN: Then we'll keep raising the prices for the households. – They can at least defend themselves, but he has not said that. This House is called upon to step exactly on the side of those who cannot actually defend themselves in this game. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e6284	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kier is, as a matter of course, supported by the rules of procedure and is included in the negotiations. The next speaker is Mr Koppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e6308	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Hofmann from the Freedom Party – unfortunately, he is not here now – and Mr Kier has expressed himself on the agreement of mining holding with the union. It was, of course, a difference between the speeches made by Mr Hofmann and Mr Kier, namely that Mr Kier, as I think, has dealt with the problem, but Mr Hofmann has referred to the contract – and he has repeated it; I am glad that he is now back in here – as "the body in the basement". [[Abg. Mother: That's clear!]] [[Abg. May. Barmüller: He is more competent!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This contract – which has already been implemented – was very important for the Austrian mining industry and was very important for the clubs. This is the difference between social-democratic and freedom labour policy: We're behind the bats and we're telling them that too. But if you are there in the region, you stand for the interests of the workers, and if you are here, turn against the interests of the workers! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: That's why they run away from you in crowds!]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! We know what the mining industry and the cumples have done in particular for the construction of this country. As in the past, we will be their representatives. This treaty must not be resolved unilaterally, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Just one side remark from me: Mr Hofmann has, as I know, neither a member nor a substitute member of the Committee on the Court of Auditors, nor has he particularly noticed me in the debate on these issues in the Committee on the Court of Auditors. In my speech, I would like to make a few basic points which the President of the Court of Auditors recently made public. It would be very good if the President of the Court of Auditors would also hear this quote. I quote the "Oberösterreichische Nachrichten" from December of last year: "As compared to the Court of Auditors' findings 15 years ago, waste has decreased significantly. Today, structural deficiencies and errors in the Court's investigations are mainly identified." Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This development in itself is partly misused, as I believe – and I have also noted in the Committee. Obviously, some groups do not want to note that the number of errors – a very encouraging fact – is falling very significantly. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! At the parliamentary level, some are deliberately trying to discredit organisations, businesses and authorities in a truly unqualified way. Whether that's good for politics, I doubt. Normal operations in establishments are requalified, scandalized to cover up political small amounts. This procedure is not only intolerable for the establishments concerned. The time burden, which I personally note, and in discussions, the members of the Committee also noted, has increased significantly for the consideration of issues at meetings of the Committee on the Court of Auditors and Subcommittee, and at the same time, there is no time for up-to-date tasks. We are constantly experiencing the fact that various proposals have been made by the President of the Court of Auditors to the public. It would, of course, be more interesting for us if the President of the Court of Auditors would share his views on various current issues at a Parliamentary meeting. I come to the issue of joint society. A practical example is provided by the Court of Auditors' Subcommittee, ladies and gentlemen. There are parties, in particular the Freedom Party – Mr Hofmann has also expressed this today – who believe that the coordination agreements of the interlocutory society with the e-works must be defamated, although the importance of this national economic regulation has been underlined several times. The way forward, ladies and gentlemen, was certainly the right one, as confirmed by the Court of Auditors in its report. In particular, the Court of Auditors notes that special agreements with the countries have made it possible to achieve a national economic optimization of the Austrian power plant. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Growths in staff expenditure have been largely eliminated. The Court recommends that generous pension schemes continue to be carefully examined, particularly in connection with electricity price increases; as a result of the changed market situation, electricity price increases are unlikely to be feasible. With this, ladies and gentlemen, there will be further potential for savings. A pension fund for employees could provide an important financial relief. I believe and am optimistic that the combined society will continue to develop in the sense of the Austrian economy. Let us help her, ladies and gentlemen. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e6387	Mrs Ing. Langthaler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e6409	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Minister! It seems that you can read reports very differently, because I have understood some passages slightly different from my previous speaker. However, I would like to predict that for us this Court of Auditors report is an enormously important basis for all further important discussions that must be based on the way in which the electricity industry continues in Austria as a result of the new Internal Market Directive and the necessary liberalisation steps in the context of EU membership. The examination originally required by the FPÖ in order to reflect the increase in electricity prices was not as critical as – and this is very important for us and will also have to be at the heart of the discussions on a new energy organisation law – the weaknesses that exist in the coordination of power plants, especially in the coordination between the state suppliers and the joint society. For example, the Court of Auditors has specifically criticised the fact that, in particular, this is a literal quote, "there are still further possibilities for cooperation with the western societies and an economic optimization has not yet been achieved". We have been demanding this for many, many years. This Internal Market Directive is something like a necessary structural whip, which makes it possible for Austria to find a reasonable solution that, as the Minister for Economic Affairs has mentioned it, a link is being created – as always – where it really is about not only carrying out an accounting unbundling and a change in the EU directive, but really trying to create an Austrian electricity group, a real functional, organisational separation by generation, by distribution and, of course, by its own network company in this context. We've been demanding this for a long time. We have also proposed a very concrete approach to a legislative proposal for an Energy Organisation Act. The fact that this restructuring can and will lead to enormous benefits, not only do we show this over and over again, but there are many economic professors and experts who have been predicting this for years. I would like another professor. Mr Lechner or Mr Lechner from the Energy Consumption Agency, who has repeatedly argued in various studies that efficient structuring within the energy industry also includes, in the short term, incredible potential for savings. In a study by Schleicher, it is said that 5 billion schillings per year and corresponding structural reform could be saved up to 20 billion shillings per year. That's really about big amounts. However, one must finally be aware of one thing, and it is obvious that one has to say this to the national leaders from land to land, and therefore I do not envy the Minister for Economic Affairs: that it will be impossible to exist in European competition as a single national energy supplier. You hear now and again from Vorarlberg to Burgenland: We keep our country energy society, we don't give anything here, we don't want to restructure anything either! These are our Ill works, or that's our TIWAG, and there's nothing going on, neither in the structure, nor even in the connection in the property area! That's just absurd. We will not be competitive in European competition without an appropriate Austrian solution. We therefore also support the plans of Minister of Economic Affairs Farnleitner when it comes to creating a so-called union, whereby the state-owned suppliers also bring their power plants into a power plant pool accordingly. I think it is a visionary project for Austria – if you look at the Austrian energy scene. The Federal Chancellor, who said: Whoever has visions needs a doctor! is now no longer Federal Chancellor, and perhaps the new Federal Government succeeds in finding support from the Federal Chancellor and others. – Ah yes, the doctor has you! So you seem to go to Mr Rasinger if you have any problems with this. Nevertheless: Everyone who has been dealing with this area for years – and this is what the Minister of Economic Affairs knows as well as the Minister of Economic Affairs himself, who is very well aware of the union, but also of the national societies – knows that the plans proposed by the Minister of Economic Affairs would actually trigger something like an earthquake or have already triggered such a one in the various boards of the national societies and that, of course, the national leaders are trying to stick to the previous structures. The fact that these structures are not to be maintained and that it is totally inconceivable that the TIWAG, the STEWEAG, however it may be called, can only survive in some way in European competition, is clear to all those concerned. That is why it is simply – we have often debated this here – incomprehensible and absurd when holding on to power plant projects that are absolutely uneconomical. You can also say a lot from an ecological point of view – we have often done this here. The fact that the power plant plans that exist from the EVN's side – example: calorie power plant, the so-called, but of course also from the OKA – for example, the "famous" hydropower plant Lambach – are a nonsense from an ecological point of view, we have often tried to present. But they are also an economic insanity, they are absolutely unwarranted by the economy. We have an overload of electricity, we are currently in the situation that the combination of hydropower produces cheap electricity, exports it at the lowest prices, "throws" into the market, while fossil energy is imported by the state companies to be used in caloric power plants. – That’s completely absurd! There is currently little reasonable planning in Austria, there is poor cooperation, there is mainly jealousy between the association and the national societies. It would be a really great opportunity to make a big throw with an energy organization law and not to do a little bit in typical Austrian manner and to do a little bit around there, because a patch and there stick a patch. If you want to do something, you really have to break into the foundations of these national energy companies. And this – this is also a discussion even among Greens – has nothing to do with anti-federalism or whatever, but it simply has to do with finding the most reasonable energy policy solution for the Republic of Austria, finding the most reasonable solution for the economy in order not to be sold very quickly to foreign companies. – In principle, I would have less of a problem with foreign investors, but above all I would have problems with them, namely huge problems about future owners producing mainly nuclear power and having absolutely nothing to do with a sustainable energy policy on the hat. That is why my appeal to all my colleagues, particularly in the Committee on Energy, to try, on the basis of the documents examined by the Court of Auditors, to try to find a truly reasonable structure for Austria. A big throw will be necessary. I agree, in broad areas, with the proposals that are now only rudimentary to me, but still by the Minister for Economic Affairs. I hope that there will be a functional-organisational separation, an unbundling, an own power plant company and its own network company to find a good solution for Austria. We will be very constructive in this, and we really hope that the Minister of Economic Affairs will be able to convince his own national leaders in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e6497	The next speaker is Mr Deputies Head. – Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e6518	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Federal Minister! Mr Wabl! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Steindl has already pointed out in his speech that the Court of Auditors has indeed confirmed that it is on the right track, in particular with measures aimed at eliminating in-house deficiencies and shortcomings. It is the speech of structural cost problems, it is the speech of a somewhat slender form of organisation, but, as has already been said, the Court of Auditors confirms the commitment to be quite on the right track, although it is found that further steps and further measures in this direction, towards strengthening the economic base, will be necessary to strengthen efficiency in the company. The link and the current situation of the union do not seem to me to be sufficiently solidified if I dare to see the liberalisation of the electricity market which is imminent. But I have to hold on to one thing: The solution to structural problems will not be to regulate centralization by law and thus cement structures and try to secure existences. That would be like a sportsman, instead of preparing for a race, being able to gain the skills of taking time. So Mr Kier's statements seem to me to be a bit problematic, that competitive structures – not framework conditions, but even structures, that goes far deeper into the companies, which is a high-quality difference – should be defined by law. Mrs Langthaler! Perhaps you would have to discuss this issue internally with the Greens. In the end, you made a brief statement, but in the paper of the energy speakers of the Western Länder, Tyrol, Salzburg and Vorarlberg, the approaches are completely different from what you presented here. There is talk of the fact that green policy is decentralized policy. There is talk of maintaining the independence of the regional ETUCs. The point is that, although enhanced cooperation should be carried out within strategic alliances, it should be organised with as much independence and decentralisation as possible, and the Austrian coordination of all electricity economic activities as part of the economic responsibilities of participating companies. The Court of Auditors also notes in its report on this issue that, for example, the advantages of a joint operating company, the potential energy benefits, technical-organisational requirements and also legal-administrative problems which the Court of Auditors sees would be at least offset again. Mr Farnleitner has also recently expressed his preference for separation in such societies. However, it has added to its option of a single management company in a single electricity generation society, that this must not be regulated by the Energy Organisation Act, but, as is usually the case with companies that look to the future to look after their structures, strategic alliances, for strategic cooperation in the context of their entrepreneurship itself. The Court of Auditors has also recommended a common re-design of the structures in its report of the Association Society, and I believe that, according to all that is to be heard from the negotiations of the Association Society with the Land Societies, such a common solution is actually before us. I think it is legitimate that the Minister of Economic Affairs has recently put pressure on societies to present this proposal as soon as possible. From this point of view, I would also like to call on the whole of the E-Economie to reach an agreement quickly and to make such a proposal quickly.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e6567	The next speaker is Mrs Applebeck. - Please. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e6588	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Federal Minister! I also believe that there would be a need for some information or change. For years, Austria was claimed to produce too little electricity, and more power plants had to be built. In the meantime, we have so many power plants that we can no longer run, because we do not need so much electricity, nor can we export this electricity. And yet the e-business is planning more power plants! Thus, the E-Economie is driving into an ever deeper financial disaster, even though this is not yet happening, because the combination by its monopoly sells its unprofitable electricity accordingly expensive. In a few years, the Austrians, at least some large entrepreneurs, will be able to obtain their electricity from the EU, where it is cheaper. The link will therefore remain on its current and therefore have to afford everything for small customers to keep its deficit within manageable limits. For Austrian electricity customers, Fremuth's cross-state mega-power plant adventure will also be expensive. The Austrians will have to reduce the cost of Hungarian electricity as a counter-performance for their investment in pre-work, although they themselves produce electricity at a cheaper cost – even if it is more expensive than in the EU. In this situation, the Austrian E-Economics will also be able to cross the EU's offers. So planning ahead can certainly not be the case here. I mean, not every loss, not every financial disaster needs to be immediately visible. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I am enough – and the Austrians as a whole – if today's economic planning is so "good" that millions of losses are guaranteed – which the Court of Auditors also confirms in its report, although in a noble and reticent formulation, as we are used to by the Court of Auditors. "Remarkable savings from rationalisation should continue, such as the slowing of investment and the desired reduction of debt," says the Court of Auditors. The Court also criticises that the electricity conversion system is not yet geared towards European market conditions and should become more flexible. All synergies would have to be used to ensure that Austria can also exist in this part of the EU. Ladies and gentlemen! With the previous planning it is apparently not. What do millions spend on advertising? If I want to sell something that no one needs, no one wants what others offer, possibly even cheaper, even better, then I realize that it has to be applied for. But if something is offered, what only I offer, what everyone has to take, what do you spend on advertising for? My neighbor also shaves with interconnected current if the compound does not advertise for it, and I cook my tea with interconnected current even if the compound does not advertise for it because there is no alternative. One simply has to consume it because the competition is still missing. Why do we also have to pay advertising for this electricity in addition to the electricity price? This is a wasteful policy, ladies and gentlemen, which is expensive for Austrians! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] As the link with liberalisation of electricity supply opportunities from the EU was predictive, the union is eurofit, although by decades too early.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e6657	Mrs Binder is now on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e6679	Mr President. Minister! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! On the occasion of this special report, a request from the FPÖ of March 1995 to review the joint venture, since the FPÖ called into question the coordination agreements between the association and the Landesgesellschafts. The content of this report is that the Court of Auditors defends these contracts and also disproves that the coordination agreements would be the cause of the supposedly excessive electricity prices. Ladies and gentlemen! Some facts on the background: Coordination is based on three pillars. Firstly, long-term electricity supply contracts between associations and state companies, second: the coordinated power plant construction programme, and thirdly, the participation of the Lande-EVUs in the large-scale power plants of the network. In this respect, the Court of Auditors also notes that this could create a supply of the highest quality and safety requirements. Ladies and gentlemen! In the Court's view, the coordination agreements concluded between the associations and the Landesgesellschafts have been legally concluded and, as a result, similar declarations of will by the Contracting Parties, which are still legally valid. The Court of Auditors considers these coordination agreements to be an important measure for the secure and economic supply of energy from Austria. Of course, this report also contains proposals for improvement or recommendations from the Court of Auditors, on the one hand more flexible arrangements to be adapted to European market needs, and on the other hand the continuation of cost reduction and savings programmes. You will still have to talk about it, ladies and gentlemen. On the whole, ten questions have been asked, ten answers followed. These answers were largely positive, and I think we will take note of this report.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e6724	Next speaker is Deputy Magistrate. Barmüller. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e6745	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I can join Mrs Langthaler in considering the Court of Auditors' report as important for future work, because he has simply made it clearer in the area which will be essential for the new Energy Organisation Act, and allows for an objective discussion. However, we are concerned by the Liberal Forum that those recommendations, which have also been clearly formulated by the Court of Auditors, are mentioned here in the report, but are not implemented by the Court of Auditors. It is not a long time to think, for example, of the reports of the public prosecutor's office or other reports of the Court of Auditors, that proposals are being made again and again, which are then referred to as correct in the current discussion, but which are not implemented in politics. That is why we have formulated the motion for a resolution which, as you can convince yourself, is exactly in line with the Court of Auditors' recommendations on the first two points. The third point, which we have added, is that, in particular, we are addressing the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs, it is not the private budgets that cannot be avoided by the monopolists, that we are not going to get the loss of proceeds that may have to be taken at the opening of the energy market. With this motion for a resolution, we want to ensure that the combined society, as well as the other electricity and energy suppliers, is forced to put in place rationalization measures and really intervene where structures are superfluous by creating slim structures and not turning the costs that too large structures entail on private households. This – and this will also be confirmed by the honourable Member's head – corresponds exactly to what he must have meant when he said that he would not want such a sportsman – I suppose, the athlete stands as a symbol for the electricity supply companies – to prepare for a competition by saying that he would like to have the competence to take time, that he would not actually want to train. The third point in our proposal is that it is not necessary for the electricity supply companies, the energy supply companies in Austria – including the network – to be able to press ahead with the real problems. I believe that this is the opportunity to make a joint request. It should also be in accordance with your intention from the point of view. Nevertheless, ladies and gentlemen, every new solution to the new energy supply structures we need in Austria will require creativity. There must be no structures that are based on country borders, and there must be no structures that are proportional. And – and this has already been done by Member Kier – of course production and distribution have to be separated. But in this whole system, we must not overlook the following: We need to make room for renewable energy sources in our energy supply system. Federal Minister Farnleitner! You have also been called upon to recognise the motion for a resolution that has already been tabled – you know that the fixing of tariffs for the introduction into the grid of 31. There has been an expiry of December 1996 and there is currently no provision for an investment security for renewable energy producers, in order to finally come to a solution which is also a rule of law. We need a legal right to feed renewables and fair, long-term, predictable tariffs which are granted for that purpose. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! How else would it be possible for the option of industrial use of renewables to be implemented in Austria as set out in the National Environmental Plan? We need investment security for these measures, otherwise we will never really be able to establish renewable energy sources in Austria. It is undisputed that in the field of hydropower we simply have great advantages through geographical conditions. However, the lucrative sites are already being used, but as far as biomass or biogas is concerned, as far as wind energy is concerned, as far as photovoltaics are concerned, we are not leading. We are even in the process – especially in the field of biomass – to lose our technologically positive approaches compared to the scanners and to fall into perplexity. We are becoming importers of technologies whose approaches and beginnings are actually here in this country. And for that we need such a power supply law. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In conclusion: It will be necessary to provide in the Electricity Tax Act an exception to the electricity that comes from renewable energy sources. You know that the savings package, the Electricity Tax Act, has also introduced an electricity levy on renewable energy sources. There is no such thing as this throughout Europe. Where such taxes have been abolished, renewable energy sources are excluded. This is a measure that we also need in order to ultimately achieve our CO2 reduction target, and it would be necessary for policy to be more consistent here. We need a clear commitment to renewable energy sources, and the creation of such an exception, the creation of an feed-in law with legal rights, with fair tariffs, would be a real start. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e6825	The next speaker is Mr Murauer. - Please. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e6846	Mr President of the House. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Barmüller! I have listened with great attention to your comments, in particular with regard to renewable energy. Mr Kier is not likely to share your opinion completely, he has partly said something completely different. But, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, on a report from the media last weekend, in which it was said that electricity had to be imported in 1996. Imports have been widely considered compared with 1995. In 1996, 2 455 gigawatt hours were imported. That is, electricity consumption has increased by 2.4 percent. In this light, I believe, we must also see our future considerations. In principle, the Special Review Court reported positively on the joint society and recognised the rationalisation measures, the efforts to save costs and human resources corrections. It also points out, however, that further savings have been made, and calls for organisational forms which could still be streamlined, the cost-refund principle and the staff costs. The possibility of central control in the reform of the organisation within the use of power plants must not necessarily be taken into account, since the costs are at least as high as the energy-efficient benefits – the Court of Auditors believes. The Court of Auditors also points out that the second In part, national law inhibits and hinders the changeover in the sense of liberalisation and also in the context of the European Union. So, as many of my previous speakers have said, this is about the future of energy supply in our country. The Court of Auditors and we recommend that this be defined in a new energy organisation law, which is the legal and economic basis for safe domestic energy supply. Mr Farnleitner, the Federal Minister, has made a strong effort to make these foundations available and to present this organizational law for decision-making. But it is also the basic direction. This organizational law also tells us whether we will take due account of nature in the future and take this into account in the imports of electricity. It has already been talked so wisely about the low-cost electricity imports today. If you have said, Mr Hofmann, that you would have cheaper electricity than that of the hydroelectric power stations, then you will not miss out on what time this electricity price can be made available, where this electricity comes from and so on. You can think about it, and I advise you to do it. In Europe, there is a White Paper on Energy Policy, which deals with security of supply within the EU and within individual countries. We are largely dependent on gas and oil from third countries in Austria. Here we have to make corrections. The White Paper also speaks of the respect for environmental protection, independence and rational use of energy in terms of insulation, optimization of heating and advice and of the European SAVE facility, which provides for a research programme on energy optimization. Here we are involved, Austria is speaking here. Ladies and gentlemen! To Upper Austria, to Lambach and the energy policy ideas and goals. – I mean, if the 6. This year, everything will be relativizing. ==References== In October, Landtagswahlen in Upper Austria will be, and then, Mr Hofmann and so on, for a power plant, for a hydroelectric power plant which provides renewable energy, and it will be considered useful, and then Mrs Langthaler and Mr Anschreiter will also be in favour, so that a reasonable energy policy in Upper Austria will be used to use their own resources to take account of renewable energy, solar energy, heat pump and wind energy. [[Rejoicing]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] I should also like to point out the quality of the jobs. Before speakers have meant that a hydropower plant offers only a few years of job security. The People's Party and the People's Party of Upper Austria are also very likely to be concerned with these jobs, which can be secured by the establishment of a reasonable power plant in a federal country. My very personal and special concern about job security, Mr Wabl – perhaps we may agree – would be to take into account energy optimization accordingly, that heating should be energy-optimised, that heat insulation should be promoted accordingly, because a new technological development would take place here because jobs could be created here, because this energy optimization would be a particularly labour-intensive step. And here we could take the first step in public buildings, ladies and gentlemen. I consider this energy optimization to be a future path, and the new Energy Organisation Act will also take this into account.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e6930	I call Mrs Silhavy. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e6952	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! The critique of Freilicher-chef Jörg Haider on the electricity pricing of the Austrian electricity industry AG, which he held on 10 June 1885. The Court of Auditors did not find any fertile ground in a request for an audit. In its special report on the joint venture, which was presented to Parliament today, Thursday, the Court of Auditors notes that the electricity price increase of the joint venture took place in 1995 by 2.8% on the basis of sufficiently confirmed costs. If Mrs Apfelbeck has been listened to today, it is not believed that she has actually dealt with this Court of Auditors report, because on the one hand she speaks of over-priced Austrian electricity producers, on the other hand, On the other hand, she paints the horror of the even more expensive prices of the electricity we will have to import to the wall and tries to put Austrian households in fear and panic. In addition, the Court of Auditors has also found that electricity pricing is widely overestimated in its economic impact. Mrs. Apfelbeck! I assume that you have read this report and should actually know it. Throughout the electricity sector, the sales volume is around 70 billion schilling, and it is created by 25 000 employees. And if you look at the proposals that have been made here, you also know that the savings of 20 billion schilling would actually correspond to the 100% savings of employees. So you can see with which "care" proposals are made here. What's important to us is how electricity is produced with us. We must remember that 70 percent of our electricity comes from hydropower and we have an environmentally friendly electricity supply system within the EU. I would also like to remind you here again that the preferred use of renewable energy in the EU Internal Energy Directive has not least been determined on Austrian operations. However, in spite of the problem that I am aware of, I would like to raise a great deal of concern here – Mr Koppler has also mentioned it in his contribution to the debate: I am aware of the current problems of cost design and transport, but I am convinced that the reflections on the electricity supplies of the ÖDK in Voitsberg to Slovenia or Croatia must be followed. Federal Minister! I call on you to support these efforts. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] For the region – colleague Bauer comes from this region – the use of lignite is a necessary economic element, a necessary economic element and essentially also contributes to ensuring jobs in this region. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is also gratifying that the report has been taken away from the fact that the research costs of the association could be increased and that the research priorities actually go back to renewable energy. That is what we are optimistic about, and I therefore believe that we can all give our support to this report.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e7015	Mr Sigl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e7036	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Energy or energy generation is and will be one of the most important topics of the future in our society. The natural limitation of fossil energy resources, on the one hand, and the environmental problems caused by the combustion of fossil fuels, on the other, force energy generation companies to rethink. Under these conditions, the Court of Auditors' special report on the joint venture should be described as quite positive. In my opinion, in recent years, the interconnected society – and this is also evident from the Special Report – has managed to achieve very well-cooperation between economic and environmental objectives. I would just like to say briefly to the ecological efforts that the idea of environmental protection has been enshrined in the corporate objective of the joint society. An environmental management system has also been introduced to ensure cost savings by optimising and standardising environmental activities. After this phase of dealing with environmental change processes, the combined society is now faced with a significant change in its basic economic structures. As regards the economic interests of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, it should be noted that the Court of Auditors, in its report, stressed that significant progress could be made by some more flexible and unbureaucratic implementation of many problems towards an economic optimization of Austrian power stations. On the savings measures within the group, the Court of Auditors also noted that the Group's savings would be apparent. Here, for example, the reductions in administrative costs and maintenance costs should be highlighted. However, I do not wish to mention in my speech that the Court of Auditors is recommending further rationalization measures for the union. Here, the newly introduced organisation reform of the company will meet the wishes of the Court of Auditors. The organisation reform of the composite company not only ensures more efficient management of the company, but also guarantees a future-oriented market and customer-oriented form of organisation, which in turn benefits the pricing of the electricity price in Austria and in the final effect to the customer and customer. If you want to exist as an energy company on the strengthened European competitive market, you must certainly take further measures to reduce costs and increase profits in the future. An example of this is the 1995 electricity price monitoring system. This electricity price control system is designed to ensure the competitiveness of the Austrian energy industry through the use of market-economy elements while preserving consumer interests. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to say that the interconnected society is well prepared for the European electricity market. Therefore, I would like to take note of the report of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure on the special report of the Court of Auditors on the joint venture and I find it to be consistently positive for the Austrian electricity industry.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e7091	No one is reported in the word anymore. I'll close the debate. The rapporteur's conclusion has not been desired. I would ask you to take the seats, and we shall now come to two votes. First of all, we are voting on the Committee's request to take note of this report III-25 of the supplements. Whoever is for the notice, I ask him for a corresponding sign. . This report has been largely taken note of. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Barmüller and comrades on electricity pricing schemes that meet European market requirements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The request has not been accepted. 3rd. Point Report of the Scientific and Research Committee on the 1996 Research Report (III-24/569 of the Supplements) 4. Point Report by the Committee on Science and Research on Amendment 40/A (E) by Mr MMag. Dr. Madeleine Petrovicund Comrades concerning the establishment of a non-animal research site at the Karl-Franzens-Universität Graz (570 of the supplements) 5. Point Report of the Committee on Science and Research on Amendment 90/A (E) by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Thomas Prinzhornand comrades on measures to harmonise and improve technology and research support (571 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e7183	We now come to points 3 to 5 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There has been no oral reporting, so that we can go into the debate immediately. I am the first speaker to give the floor to Mr Dr Krüger. You have announced a voluntary time limit of 8 minutes. Regardless of that, I have to interrupt you at 3 p.m. because a urgent request is made. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e7212	High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I regret that the Minister, who in the last few days, as we have been told from the media, has apparently not been here; I do not know if he has been informed in good time. Ladies and gentlemen! Last Thursday, a meeting of the Scientific Committee took place, and when I was allowed to welcome Mr Scholten as Chairman of the Committee, I did not yet know - but I do not think none of you, and I do not take up the SPÖ Members - that this should be the last participation of Minister Scholten in the Scientific Committee. Ladies and gentlemen! The dominant theme of the past days and the weekend was the government reform, which was carried out very surprisingly and quickly by the Social Democratic Party. Now, I think, you should stop with the education of legends that all of this has gone through the stage in the greatest harmony in social democracy. In fact, the conversion of the chancellor function is not as harmonious as has been reported many times here. Remember, for example, that it was not Minister Klima who was allowed to announce the result of the so-called CA deal here during the last special session, but Chancellor Vrannitzky did not let himself be taken to report to the House of Lords about this deal. In addition – one could find out about Klubobmann Khol – German Chancellor Vranitzky has already made fixed appointments with foreign government members for the next week. But finally, another strong indication of this power struggle within the SPÖ is that Mr. Federal Chancellor Vranitzky did not go so quickly, probably the fact of the phone call between the ORF and Mrs. Christine Vranitzky. – I don’t know who heard it last Friday, about midnight. When Ms. Christine Vrnitzky was asked whether it was actually true that the Federal Chancellor would resign, she said that she could not imagine that. Ladies and gentlemen! I do not think that, in view of this situation, anyone else assumes that all this has been done harmoniously over the stage. Although this judgment may be widely applicable to external effects, it was in fact different. Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, Mr Scholten is not present. He has obviously implemented his withdrawal from politics immediately by not even appearing here today. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm far from scattering roses at his exit, Minister Scholten. I also do not want to explain the situation and position of Minister Scholten. I think it would be a gross act of disbelief if one suddenly changed one's opinion or attitude, just because the Minister has resigned or is about to resign. In fact, Mr Scholten was guilty of serious failure in his place of business. I am thinking, for example, of the fact that it has only been very slow in the field of telecommunications. The reporting in the daily press and in the "Economics Week" is well known. Mr Rainer of the "Economic Week" wrote at the time that it was just too dangerous for a minister responsible for telecommunications to declare that one should not participate in the telecommunications sector. Further, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Scholten must also be accused of having greatly appreciated the teaching of the scientific budget. I just think that the university budget suddenly lacked 450 million schillings. The fact that Minister Scholten has been stimulant in the re-employment of the University Advisory Council is only mentioned on the verge here. There, where the Minister still had numerous sympathizers from the more left-wing area, namely at the universities, the largest demonstrations of the Second Republic have been made. We can all remember that vividly. And in order not to be one-sided here, I would like to stress this explicitly, it should also be noted that the Minister has expressed a clear attitude on the question of tuition fees, which, moreover, covers with me: He was opposed to the introduction of tuition fees. The Art Promotion Advisory Board has been downgraded by Minister Scholten to manage the ORF-Schilling. It is also to the Minister that he tried to put the artists in his service and in the service of social democracy when, for example, he wanted to carry out a chain letter campaign with the artists during the 1995 elections. Ladies and gentlemen! I see the withdrawal of Minister Scholten with a crying and smiling eye. With a smiling eye, therefore, because I believe that the failure to answer in the Ministry of Schools is so serious that it is simply impossible to give him a politically impeccable reputation. With a crying eye, as Minister Scholten takes his leave in the double pack also Burgtheater Director Peymann, as he has already announced in the last Cultural Committee. I should like to remind you, with some gratitude from the Liberal Group, that Mr Scholten and Mr Peymann were among our most effective electors. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] However, I would also like to point out that the dignity of the Minister's person has always been untouchable and will remain untouchable. – All of this despite the countless failure to complain here. Ladies and gentlemen! I am sorry to note that it is obviously already decided in the Social Democracy that the Minister Scholten, who was undoubtedly an ideology minister, was said to be an indispensable place of ideology for the SPÖ; Mr Posch obviously does not know the Minister's own statements and Mrs Paterk's statement – now another minister of ideology in the person of the Caspar should follow. One can only take note of this with regret, but of course we will give him a chance – that is not a question at all – to get his chance. I am not too optimistic, however, because Mr Minister One of his former officials in the Interior has demonstrated that he is at any time willing to put party policy on the interests of the country, has proved that he is further attached to left-left ideology and is also willing to continue to pursue this policy. On the whole, it can be said that I do not have a good feeling, but rather that I have an unpleasant feeling when I think that Minister is following a Minister of School. I believe that we are making the bock a gardener here, because the cultural resort is a very important resort. And if one assumes that it is also in the ideology of the future Minister of Art One is – this is to the address of the ÖVP! – For example, the plan of the Burgtheater is based on election results, and if it maintains this policy, it will have to expect our strong resistance.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e7307	Mr. Dr. Krüger! Mr Scholten informed me that he had asked him to represent him until 3 p.m. However, it will be present on the Intergovernmental Bank during the course of the debate on Agenda items 3 to 5. Ladies and gentlemen! I have to call the urgent question at 3 p.m. I do not think it makes sense for me to give the floor to one speaker on Agenda Points 3 to 5. I am interrupting the debate and will soon call upon the urgent question.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e7337	Ladies and gentlemen! I will now resume the interrupted session. Request for urgent procedure Dr. Hans Peter Haselsteiner, Mag. Helmut Peterand comrades to the Federal Minister for Finance on the financialability of the removal of the reform stand (1830/J)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e7376	We arrive at urgent procedure for the written question 1830/J. As this has now been done to all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the author. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e7726	I now appoint Mr Dr. Hazelsteiner as the first applicant to justify the request in accordance with § 93 para. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Time limit: 20 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e7747	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! At about four years as Minister of Transport and one year as Minister of Finance, Federal Minister Klima is now about 50 percent of the total span of the large coalition government member in this collegiate body. Because it is a collegial body, there is also a joint responsibility in this period of time. We believe it is today, so to speak, at the time of divorce in this function, at the time, of inheritance, inheritance and inheritance mass. Federal Minister! There are two things that we want to highlight with them, and we want to take stock of this genetic mass in two ways: Once there is the mass of inheritance that you leave behind as Minister of Finance, and once again that mass of inheritance that you take over yourself as a designed Federal Chancellor. In contrast to civil law, it is difficult for you to get rid of an inheritance or to refuse the emergence of inheritance. It is also difficult for the future Minister of Finance to take such a step. Therefore, it is important for us today... – Mr Klubobmann Khol wants to get to different things Ezzes how to make it better in the future. [[Abg. Dr. Khol talks to Federal Minister Mag. Climate on the government bank.]] [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: Is that the new style that he doesn't even listen to?]] He was already a dangerous opponent as Minister of Finance, and as a Federal Chancellor he will become an even more dangerous one – I fear that for the ÖVP. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Federal Minister! What do you inherit? – They inherit a budget in 1996, which is in order in its execution and which we must admit to you that our fears – and I too have said this on several occasions – have not been met. However, you will also inherit a 1997 budget, which you yourself have said is that your opinion and your assessment of the error amounting to 8 billion compared to the forecast. It should be borne in mind, Mr Federal Minister, that in this budget, this double budget for 1996/97, there are a number of effects which are no longer repeatable in the coming years 1998 and 1999. If we just remember that you stopped the loss talks for two years, you're a 13th. Months have invented – not you, but your predecessor in office – and thus after a few thousand years have redesigned the calendar, then the points to which you have to say: That was admittedly – I don't want to say tricks because I have said that before – measures to achieve a very specific goal and look. But these measures are no longer available for 1998 and 1999. Furthermore, Mr Federal Minister, we have to admit that everything that was so to speak, without bitter resistance from large population groups, namely capital income tax, mineral oil tax and much more, was included in this savings package II, and everything else that you could plan here on the other hand would encounter an ever-increasing tax resistance and an ever-increasing bitterness on the part of the population. You yourself and also the Federal Chancellor have repeatedly stressed that there will be no need for a savings package III. We have always disagreed with you in this assessment so far, and it is therefore important today and also urgent that you fix your positions here once again before you take up your new office next Tuesday. They still inherit something from your successor, and this is a great obstacle. He must negotiate and formulate the 1998 and 1999 budgets in just a few weeks, according to his own ideas and according to your own programme, to an end, and thus he must remove this obstacle. In doing so, Mr Federal Minister, we have to expect that he will also get his feet on lead spatters. After all, he has a coalition partner who, especially deeply hurt by the CA deal – I would say humiliate – will show a little willingness to cooperate constructively – so it is at least to be feared – and to make this task easier for you or your successor. If so, on 27 May. In October 1997 the budget speech in this House was to be given by the still unknown successor, but this, Mr Federal Minister, is a real task. The most important thing, however, Mr Federal Minister, that you leave behind in your inheritance, and the biggest of these is, in my view, the debt of the state. I think we have studied at about the same time, in any case we were done about 1970 or for two or three years as optimists – I believe – in the profession. In this year 1970, the first government of Kreisky, the state debt, as you, Mr. Federal Minister, of course, was precisely known and the Ladies and gentlemen may remember 47 billion – forty-seven! -Schilling. This is an amount which is about half the amount we are planning for the coming years as an annual deficit. Ladies and gentlemen! It would truly be a relief if we could go with a debt in such a dimension into the next millennium. In 1986, when Mr. Federal Chancellor Vranitzky formed his first cabinet, the government debt was 780 billion schilling. We have allowed them to be returned to Maastricht criteria. You, Mr. Federal Minister, leave your successor with a debt of around 1,750 billion schilling. I would like to stress that not you directly, and not you ad personam, this year your Finance Minister's existence accumulated that, that's clear. But this development between 1970 and 1996 was always carried by a socialist Federal Chancellor and a socialist finance minister. This, ladies and gentlemen, must be defined here as a very essential and harmful mass of inheritance. I think that's important. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Federal Minister! It is also of great importance, in particular, because, even with regard to your convergence programme and your budget programme, you have left no doubt in the Committee recently and have left no hope – I am sorry to share this – that this debt could be reduced in the foreseeable future. On the contrary, we have a tendency against the Maastricht criteria: Not falling government debt in percentages of gross domestic product is expected, but a rising trend. I do not think it is a comfort, Mr President, that there are other countries in Europe which have even higher public debt in relation to gross domestic product, such as Italy, Belgium and cetera. It is therefore not a comfort, above all, because in some of these countries, for example in Italy, the turnaround has already been made, obviously because one is aware of the danger of this important economic and financial factor and is therefore more active and determined to reform. Federal Minister! We do not have this prospect or only to a very limited extent. Not even in view of CA's privatisation success – and I confirm that it is a success to obtain 17 billion proceeds – it seems to me in any form plausible or promising to turn the balance around. Instead of 90, 93 billion schilling deficits, we need a primary surplus in this order of 90 billion so that public debt does not continue to grow. Federal Minister! I don't know how many silver objects we still have in the treasure chamber of Austria. I mean, CA was a big silverling, a valuable piece. Now we still have the Federal Forest and some others. But if I just count this in my head, I don't come to these hundreds of billions of dollars that would be needed so that you can permanently reduce public debt. It is therefore, Mr Federal Minister, at the time before you leave your office and take on a new, greater responsibility that you will also share your views with us on this. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is precisely the state debt – that should be known to all of us, regardless of the respective party membership – that is one of the most crucial criteria for Maastricht, and it will have to remain a criterion. There is no way out, even if one becomes milder and even if one is going to create transitional periods – in the end, the debt of the state, like the budget deficit, will remain one of the criteria, and their compliance will not only be required, but will also be pursued in the sense of sanctions or sanctions. Federal Minister! We should be at the first wave – you know, and you also support it – not the second one. For if we were not, we would have to expect fatal consequences for our government budget: more expensive refinancing opportunities for public debt and therefore – a vicious circle – further increasing debt and thus higher interest rates and so on. Federal Minister! I think you should give us your perspective, which you are telling us today as Minister of Finance, and next week we will be able to compare your position as Federal Chancellor, perhaps on these issues. Federal Minister! But what do you inherit? – They inherit – we have so baptized it – a reform stow. They inherit those missing reforms of the Vranitzky I, II and III cabinet, which were promised in all government declarations – I read them through yesterday and today in preparation for this explanatory statement –, definitely promised, partly even with deadlines, and not respected. None of the major reforms that have been announced here can be described as dissolved or as being courageous. Federal Minister! In my view – including for you as Minister of Finance and for your successors – the issue of pension reform is essential and urgent. Similarly, in the 1970s, Mr Federal Minister, when we finished our studies and when we were young or even younger, we already knew that our own pensions would not be guaranteed with great certainty when maintaining the system and without significant changes and significant changes in the parameters of the system. What's going to be As the Federal Minister today and as the Federal Chancellor on Wednesday of the young people who have entered working life, do they tell the Austrians how their pension looks? – Ladies and gentlemen! To my mind: window. It won't be feasible. We will have to give the courage to clarify, with regard to the three possible solutions – work longer, get fewer pensions or make higher contributions – the way that this Republic is ready and able to go, and which is also politically enforceable. Federal Minister! The second major area: health care. Mr Vrannitzky's statement of Government 1986, 1987, also has the most urgent task of solving the health problems and the financial viability of the same. After ten or twelve years – I don't know exactly – we now have 1st place. In 1997 the KRAZAF was removed, but no reform has yet been implemented and not even initiated. We are not going to get around it, Mr Federal Minister, to introduce the transparency of costs, the obligation of insurance, self-responsibility and greater flexibility in this area. It must be stopped saying to the population that there is nothing to cost today and will not cost anything in the future, and that it will weigh them in an illusion. – It will cost something, much more than it is documented today about the contributions, which also represent costs for the individual. Federal Minister! The third post of reform, which you will inherit, and all further congestion will require resources to eliminate them. You will cause costs, start-up costs. These will be estimated at billions. The third major reform is certainly the one in the context of the transfer of social benefits. In the two years in which I am now in the house, I have heard various opinions from the government bank, from Lacina, Ditz, also from climate, also from Vrannitzky. We are pleased that liberal opinion is slow, and we need social staggerings. Only the reform stand in this area is still present, it is pressing. In the meantime, we are convinced of the need – and this is obviously a majority – but when, ladies and gentlemen, will we finally be able to make a decision on concrete measures and create a start?- Oh, my God! – It will take long enough for the measures to work and actually lead to a discharge. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Federal Minister! The next major point is administrative reform. Austria is a record holder with 21 percent of the employees in the public service, you know. In the government declarations of your predecessor in 1986, 1987, but also in the other government declarations, administrative reform is always mentioned. I do not want to reduce the merits of Mr Schlögl's Secretary of State. In the light of Austrian circumstances and circumstances, what he has done is worth considering. But there is nothing to do with reform, ladies and gentlemen. Reform approaches must be much more profound. We must avoid having to spend one third of our public expenditure on the remuneration of public servants. It would strangle us. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Federal Minister! Finally, a matter on which, as I know from the Committee's deliberations, we do not quite agree: the state reform. . I believe that if we do not come to new divisions of responsibilities between the federal and regional states and between countries and communities and communities, we will not solve this problem. I cannot understand your argument that the cosultation mechanism has been a suitable way. It may be a partial step, it is a measure that will also make a positive contribution – I hope – without reducing the constitutional rights of this House. But in any case, Mr Federal Minister, we need a stricter, more consistent, more comprehensible, a different involvement of the local authorities in budgetary responsibility than we have today. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: I think another one!]] Here too, there is an essential reform. I am not talking about the other issues, about democratic issues or the like. Mr Federal Minister, we also have differences on the subject of eco-tax reform, I know. We believe that there is also a state of reform. If we want to go new ways for jobs, if we want to have new opportunities, we also need these measures so that we can set an impulse. Mr Federal Minister, to look back on the flexibilisation measures: I have the greatest concerns, because each time the other is flexibilised in this disgusting coalition. The ÖVP flexibilises during working time, and the SPÖ flexibilizes in the trade regulations – with the result that we can not, and can not see any flexibilization at all. This, ladies and gentlemen, is a bad perspective for the coming years. Federal Minister! I conclude by asking you to answer our urgent questions here. However, I would like to say the following: I admire your courage to join this heritage. I don't know if I had him. [[Intervocations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I hope you will resolve this congestion, and you will respect what you not only promise, but also what is put on expectation in you. I expect you to give us a statement in your government statement next week in about the following direction – and I would like to quote it now: Only comprehensive measures can stop the automatic growth of expenditure. If the Federal Government does not avoid unpopular measures, this comprehensive budget consolidation will not involve any new tax burden on individual citizens, nor will there be restrictions or savings which are not socially balanced or which would be unfair to the socially weak. Federal Minister! This statement has been made by your predecessor, Mr. Federal Chancellor Vranitzky, in his government statement dated 28 May. ................................................................................................................................................................ Today we know that nothing has happened. I hope you, Minister of State, will not push this weapon into our hands on the occasion of your final withdrawal from the Federal Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e7847	To answer the question, the Federal Minister has now been notified. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e7868	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Haselsteiner! I would like to thank you at the outset for having focused the questions on the Federal Minister for Finance. [[Abg. Dr Schmidt: This is a matter of the Rules of Procedure, not of consideration!]] – I have already stressed several times: The Austrian Federal Constitution only knows one German Chancellor, and I will therefore be limited in the answer to the answer of a Federal Minister for Finance. However, Mr Haselsteiner, I would like to add a few points before addressing the questions in detail. On the development of Austria in the last ten years and on the reforms, I would like to say straight away that of course reforms are necessary. But I allow myself to add: They are necessary to keep Austria's top ranking in Europe, which we have achieved. We, the Austrians, have, in fact, reached a top place for Austria in Europe in the last ten years very consistently and without a spectacular clause. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] If we make comparisons on this, honourable Members, then we note: Our figures on the level of employment, on the issue of high youth employment, on the question of the tax system can be seen quite clearly – just think of the loss of luxury tax, asset tax, commercial income tax, a wage tax on low incomes, which is almost unique, a negative tax, in which the payers recover a little. Remember that we have seven times more Austrian companies in these last ten years on the issue of direct investment by Austrian companies abroad. Remember that twice as many companies now produce and operate at this good economic location in Austria. But I'll just say, that's not a pillow of rest. It is only a very good starting point to be able to carry out the further development that we need in the international environment – Eastern enlargement, the internal market, the globalisation of markets and competition – in fact. However, we need reform – I say this clearly and clearly – just as we always had it and will have it in the future. You, Mr Haselsteiner, coming from a company, know that non-advantage means a standstill and a step back, means being overtaken. Reforms are therefore urgently needed, and the government has defined clear objectives with the work programme by 1999. Together we will have the prospects for the next millennium to work out and work out. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] We will also have to question these reforms. We will need to show flexibility in these reforms, but without destroying our principles and values. One of the highest goods in our country – you only need to see as objective data as those in the World Competitiveness Report – is social cohesion, the view of the weaker in our society, the view of those not so good in our society, the disadvantaged in our society. We will continue to respect these principles and values in the future. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] We should not close our eyes and see concerns and problems, but not to pity them, but to act. I can quote here a favorite example of the Federal Chancellor: For example, we should not constantly regret the unfinancing of the social system, but we must make a policy to ensure the financial viability of our social system. And we will do this policy, Mr Haselsteiner. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I ask for understanding, but I refuse to be guided by dogmas like less state or more state. These are scams; we will need openness. We have questions to ask: Where, for example, do we need more powerful state in the field of education? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Schmidt.]] However, we must also ask ourselves the question, honourable Member Haselsteiner, where we no longer need the vast state, because in the meantime there are markets that offer the corresponding services. They have addressed the issues of economic and monetary union very specifically. I can tell you very clearly that I think this is one of the biggest and most important economic projects we have had over the last ten years. This is explained by a small example. I last discussed the issue of the export offensive with workers' representatives and employers' representatives. There is much to be done, we will set up our own project management, but the most important measure to increase the export rate in Austria in order to secure high employment through good exports is the rapid and timely entry of Austria into economic and monetary union. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP as well as the Liberal Forum.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is undisputed that in 1995 and 1996, Austria lost 1.5% of economic growth due to the fluctuations in exchange rates in our country. It is undisputed that 50 percent of world trade is invoiced in dollars and that this gives rise to a huge advantage for the US economic location. It is one of the greatest benefits for employment and for the economic and export situation, in particular, if we use this 350 million-human market to make a strong, globally competitive currency. It is therefore very important that the following three measures be put in place at international level in time: firstly, a Stability Pact to ensure the stability of a common currency for the future. No one in Austria will understand it if we exchange our stable Austrian currency for an unstable others. Secondly, it is important that we ensure the new exchange rate system in which those countries which are not yet in monetary union will have fixed relations against the new single currency in order to avoid there being depreciation speculation and competitive advantages for countries through depreciation. Thirdly, the relevant technical measures are necessary. But, and that's perfectly clear: These economic benefits are also addressed to the population. We will therefore very quickly have a concrete project – under the leadership of members of the Federal Government, but with professional project management – to fight for the acceptance of the population, not through advertising measures and promotions, but by carefully observing what concerns there are, and proposing concrete measures to actually address these concerns to the population. It is undisputed that, for example, in the case of rounding effects, there can be the possibility that the public hand, by rounding up, will get a basket money. There are symbolically even measures to be taken down. It is undisputed that in the phase of the 1. January 1999 to 31. In December 2001, in which there will still be Schilling and Euro in parallel, only a fixed exchange ratio is given. We must make it clear to the public that this is not a monetary reform, which loses its money in value, through which their savings book loses value through which its pensions are lost in value. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I am convinced that the social partners will also find measures to give the people the confidence that the prices in Schilling and in Euro are actually only an exchange rate and are no longer silent price increases or similar. We will have to achieve this acceptance, and I am convinced that we will actually achieve it. On the second subject: Are we in a position to actually reach the convergence criteria? Mr Haselsteiner! We have already had the opportunity to discuss this for a longer time. Austria has no difficulty in reaching the criterion of monetary stability because we have had a stable currency for decades. Furthermore, we have no difficulty in reaching the criterion of low international interest rates, because we thank God for the stability of our currency, we are internationally highly regarded debtors and therefore have low interest rates. Furthermore, we will have no difficulty in reaching the inflation criterion. I can tell you, for example, that in 1996, annual inflation was 1.9 per cent much lower than in 1995, when we still had 2.2 per cent. This is a success of the economic policy of this Federal Government! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We will also achieve – thanks to the very disciplined budget implementation in 1996 and above all the contribution of all Austrians – our aim to reduce the deficit ratio. We did this perfectly in 1996. I would just like to say to you that the total debt in Austria – I am not only talking about the federal level where we have reached the 3.7 percent we have committed – will not, as planned, amount to 4.5 percent, as the convergence criteria demand, but will be clearly below, namely, only 4 percent. I am convinced that in the new quality of financial cooperation, countries, municipalities and federal authorities have also set the right course for 1997 in order to achieve the deficit criterion of less than 3%. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] With regard to the debt you mentioned, Mr Haselsteiner, we will not reach the 72% debt ratio planned for 1996, but by 70 percent, even a little less than 70 percent. We will be able to reach around 67 per cent in 1997 and 66 per cent in 1998. That is to say, we will be able to significantly reduce the debt, the percentage of gross domestic product debt, the debt ratio of Austria as a whole, for the federal government, countries and municipalities, gradually through a very consistent budgetary policy. And this is a performance of the Austrians! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Summary: We will have the opportunity to participate in the first round of monetary union, and given the fact that our most important trading partner Germany, whose currency we have been very closely associated with for over two decades, will also participate in it, it is essential for the economy to be involved in the labour market. I do not now, because my time is too short to mention all the additional conditions we have imposed on Austrians, for example, that there will be a chapter on employment in the Treaty, according to which it is precisely the same precision as the Ministers of Finance who are making a monetary commitment to budgetary discipline through analyses, proposals for reforms and the like, that ministers of labour, the ministers of the economy with the figures of employment, the measures to deal with the success and criticism of other countries. An economic union, a European Union can only work if it is not only a monetary union but also an employment union. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer.]] This is contained in the conclusions of Dublin II of December this year, honourable Member Dkfm. Bauer. On the questions relating to the budget programme: Mr Haselsteiner, you are right if you think that we must work hard to stabilise expenditure in the field of public services. But we should not do this in the form that we set again zero-one rounds for employees in the public service, who also did exemplary things in 1996 and 1997 - they did not have to pay for an increase in salary and contributed to the reduction of staff levels - for 1998 or 1999, even in the form of savings in planning places or jobs only through labour compression. It is necessary for us to carry out a project of intelligent change in the administration of the development from the State of administration to the State of service, as I have once described it. In comparison with other countries, we will need to see why others provide the quality of the service at the same or higher level with higher efficiency. We must also set ourselves the task of carrying out a contract-out, a breakdown of the tasks. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer.]] Mr Bauer! I know I remember the committee in which we discussed this. I don't want to go into other resorts at all. Only one example of financial management: We will achieve our goal of stabilising expenditure growth in the financial management sector more or less in the budget programme period. But how do we do that? – For the first time, we have launched a project, "Finance Management 2001", in social partnership form, with two section heads, two staff representatives, two presidents of the financial country directors, where very careful analysis is done and measures are being developed, for example, with more flexibility, better disposition, the pooling of financial offices and the like, with equal quality for citizens, the administration, the service can be made more efficient. This will be necessary in all areas, but I do not want to interfere here and today. On the tax questions, honourable Member Haselsteiner: I believe that people and in particular the economy need planning and predictability. However, I immediately admit that in March 1996 we had to put in place very quickly measures to implement the consolidation of the budget. But that wasn't business as usual. For the future, we want to follow this principle of planning and predictability again, and for this reason I have launched the Tax Reform Commission, which is essentially concerned with three issues. First: How can we achieve a simplification of the tax system, greater transparency, less sniper and exceptions and exceptions, but more attractive tax rates – but less exceptions? Secondly, How can we cope with the international trend that there is a spiral down in mobile tax factors? Today, it is indeed true that countries, in order to finance their public services, are increasingly taxing the poor real estate factors in this tax competition, for example, increasing indirect taxes and all these things more. It can't go on that way! In other words, we need to harmonise the tax system at international level without equalizing. Go Europe! has been announced here. That's what's going on today. There are minimum mineral oil taxes and minimum car taxes and more. As far as VAT is concerned, there is still no country of origin, since I give you the right to reform at international level, in the field of capital income taxes, but also in the field of corporate taxes. We do not want equalisation, but how can we ever realize a European stock company, the European AG, if we do not have common accounting rules, without a common tax assessment basis? These are essential points. Thirdly, the greening of the tax system. Steps have been taken, for example, to redesign the standard consumption levy. But I already admit that the inclusion of gas and electricity in the energy tax had a very different objective and not the objective of ecologizing the tax system. [[Abg. Wabl shakes the head and smiles.]] No, you laughed half a year ago. – A mission to the Tax Reform Commission must be to further develop the greening of the tax system. On pension systems and health systems: Who would deny that further developments need to be made here and further reforms to be made? No one denies that! [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: What does "further" mean? - First!]] But one thing you must not deny, Mrs Klubobfrau: that, for example, within the framework of the 1996 reform package, essential measures have been taken to bring the actual retirement age to the legal level, and that is one of the essential steps. Why don't we do the first one first? Those who want to do the second step before the first, most often stumble. We therefore first want to introduce the actual retirement age to the legal boundaries, and in my view there are more savings to be expected in this period, because these are measures that do not act immediately. This also applies to public service measures. This year we will have nearly 600 million Schilling pensions in public service, less than was originally budgeted, because the measures against early pensions imposed by the Federal Government were socially compatible but effective. And that is an essential step! Effective measures have also been put in place in the health system. I agree immediately that we must do more in the extra-mural area, with the established doctors and develop all these things further. But you cannot deny that, for example, in the field of health insurance, account is taken, in particular, of the principle which Mr Hazelsteiner mentioned, namely the principle of combining financial responsibility with decision-making competence. This is one of the most important measures. I do not understand why we should strive to break down the state reform. There are no differences, I think. I think it is very important that we take steps to link financial responsibility with decision-making competence. It is only in this way that it is possible to make responsible decisions with regard to the costs. There's no relationship. This so-called consultation mechanism, which we have agreed, is a first essential step towards more cost discipline within the Austrian local authorities. Of course, there is also some criticism here in the House of this new quality of financial cooperation, which makes it impossible for a local authority to impose burdens on another without their knowledge, without prior discussion, without their consent. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: This is a question of political culture!]] We have agreed and taken political action on this consultation mechanism.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e8015	Excuse me, Minister. The fixed time is exceeded by about 3 minutes. I just wanted to draw attention to that.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e8031	) Thank you very much. Allow me a few words on the question of transfers. I have already mentioned that it is important that we maintain good social standards in Austria. However, I say to Mr Haselsteiner that we have to look very carefully at whether the transfer services are to those - and only to those - for whom they are intended and which they really need. We don't have enough money for the casting pot. Therefore, we must focus the transfer services – also in order to address the problem of real poverty in Austria – on those they need. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] On the last question: Mr. Dr. Haselsteiner! You asked what rules I made. Your findings repeatedly raise the questions: What caused you to do? What did you buy? What did you do? Dr. Hazelsteiner! This is not my working style as a finance minister. It is also not the case that the Minister of Finance, who wants to save, is opposed to 14 colleagues who willfully throw the money out of the window. It would have been impossible to achieve this budgetary success in 1996 if there had not been the common commitment and the common responsibility and the common discipline of all members of the Federal Government, and therefore it must be. I therefore believe that we can only achieve this together in the team, not one against all. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner.]] Yes, with the colleagues of the ÖVP, from Mr Molterer, Mr Fassleven, to Mr Gehrer, and as they all may be called, plus colleagues. All the ministers of this Federal Government have contributed to this budget implementation, and I thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In this sense, a last comment on another question: I have set up a new, modern controlling instrument together with the colleagues of the Federal Government, which is not a control of the other, but a controlling instrument, to identify together as early as possible the target ist deviations, to jointly develop countermeasures for counter-taxation. This has been one of the essential conditions for the 1996 budget implementation. In summary, honourable Member Dr. Hazelsteiner: I believe that in recent years we have improved very sustainable forms of organisation, structures, and I believe that we have the best conditions for Austria to remain among the best of Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e8100	We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that the maximum speaking time per speaker is 10 minutes, but per club is 25 minutes. Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Peter. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e8127	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I now know under what name Minister Climate as Federal Minister of Finance will enter history: under the name "Clima felix", climate of the lucky. Minister! I believe that you will benefit from the fact that the Central Statistical Office has not worked for two years. Obviously, you are missing the major developments in our country and the major developments in the economic sector. Federal Minister! They spoke from the top square of Austria. Yeah, that's right. We had a top place. But did you escape, Minister of State, that Austria is in the final position of economic growth in the European Union, behind Greece? Are you not aware that inflation in Austria is three-quarters higher than in Germany? Are you not aware that our current account is chronically negative? But you turn to the speaker's desk and say, We're all happy. – "Clima felix", this name will remain yours. [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: This is beautiful!]] Federal Minister! Look You are looking more closely at the economic structures in that country! In this country, we are increasingly experiencing an economic frustration that should frighten you from the future. I do not feel sorry for the situation, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Black painters! How does this fit into "white roßl"?]] I don't think of black paint as much as of healthy prayer. I think very much of the realistic analysis. But what the Federal Minister for Finance has signed here is a country full of milk and honey and without problems and a federal government that solves everything. Nothing you do! That is the problem of this country! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] "Clima felix" also meant to have to quote the "World Competitiveness Report". [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl stands at the government bank and talks with Federal Minister Mag. Climate.]] Mr President, I would be grateful if you would hold the discussion later. Please be a polite person and sit down again! [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl is away from the government bank.]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: Do you already hold the presidency?]] I believe that the "World Competitiveness Report" is an important factor for Austria's economic location. Only: You, Mr Minister, have not said that the state of Austria in this report has unfortunately had to be revised by many, many positions down in recent years. Act instead of talking – that seems to me to be the model that we have been holding on to this great coalition for ten years and that we will remind them again and again. Federal Minister! We have nothing of it if you, as Minister of Finance, support government declarations that we have experienced in 1987 and in the years of the government of Vranitzky III and IV, in which things are happening and right everywhere. Yes, why do it? You don't want these things? Who is this federal government, if it is already making a good statement of government, to be able to block it all the time? Where are they with the Colognes of the well-acquired rights, who walk about and say: Nothing's going on, not at all!Unknown term type: "%s".? That's the problem! In reality, it is the stable of reform that threatens the great thing we have achieved. There's actually a reform store. No one will be able to dispute this seriously. Economic and monetary union, Minister, thank God for the state-bearing forces of this country. It is a necessity in the European area in order to fulfil the European internal market, and it is essential for the export-oriented country of Austria. But, rather slowly, I have concerns and fears that you, together with the National Bank, will run into monetary union with closed eyes, because you believe that the problem will then be solved. You really believe that your current account problem can be transferred to monetary union. You really believe that your deficit in growth is still dwindling in monetary union. Only: This problem remains structural in this country, and the problem that remains will then affect the interest rate level of that country. Currently the international investor believes – and I call her out from this place: As long as Schilling and D-Mark are coupled, she's right to do that! – to the economic data of this country. However, after entry into economic and monetary union, there will be a very good spread of interest between those countries that work successfully and those countries that do not work successfully. A chronic current account deficit is a sign of structural weakness and not a sign of successful work. But climate felix makes itself and says: It's all right! – That can't be true what you're doing! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] In ten years of a federal government that you have been listening to for five years, you have not awakened the personal responsibility potential of people in this country. They always told them: No, no, we're making reforms! But de facto, you didn't do it. The opportunity lies in these 8 million hard-working women and men, in these people who are willing to take on responsibility. Only: This responsibility was never required of them. Social policy cannot be defined by social cold. Social policy must focus on the really social weak in this country. But if social policy is also aimed at transferring the wealthy family aid, allowing an interest rate rate rate of 23 per cent – five years of the Finance Minister climate felix – where 23 per cent of the State's net income is paid to the wealthy in that state, I must say: This is a classic redistribution from bottom to top. If you believe that this is a distribution policy that prevents poverty in this country, which really helps the socially weak, then I cannot imagine how you want to shape the policies of the next few years. Responsibility rather than regulation is required. All here, including your person, Mr Federal Minister, are talking about debureaucratisation, and every time this House meets, you decide on further regulations to say in the same breath: We have too much bureaucracy, what are we supposed to do? Well, you decide less and more feasible laws! That's easy. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I will give you a fine example of what the Coalition Parties have decided on the occasion of the consolidation programme, the Structural Adjustment Act in this House, of course, with the votes of the Austrian People's Party. If today an employee from 20th century onwards. ==References== Janen God thank you for a job – with 36 000 unemployed people alone in the tourism industry! – then, in the ten days in December and in the five or six or seven days in January, he earns more than the minimum basis of 3 840 S – with the final effect that he must repay the stamp money for the whole of December and receive none for the whole of January. In other words, it would have been much wiser for him to stay at home and not work, instead of going to work, because he has to repay the December stamp money and won't get it all over January. These are the laws that you have passed here and for which you share your responsibility, Mr. Federal Minister Klima felix! But all these are not problems. Obviously this is under your perception horizon. The decision-making structures are so shattered in this country that I really wonder if it would be useful if this great coalition were to continue its course for a long time. As a liberal, we have always emphasized: You have taken responsibility – work together, solve the problems! Only: They just explain to us how you will solve them, you're just talking about what you're going to do, but if it really comes to the cracking point, then nothing happens, then you decide laws of the quality I've mentioned them before. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am particularly concerned about the failure of this federal government in the European Union. We Liberals have always supported Austria's accession to the European Union, and have fully supported it because we think it is right in the social and long term. Only: Where are your very concrete initiatives? Where have you been driving the greening of the tax system? You have indeed had the forehead to explain to us today that you have taken steps towards ecologizing the tax system. Federal Minister! You have done the clear opposite: You have destroyed all the confidence that people in this country have ever had in ecologizing the tax system by very likely raising energy taxes, but not reducing labour costs. This is a desavowing of the ecological tax system! This is mistrust that you have sowed in this country! They didn't do anything else. Where, Mr Federal Minister for Finance, have you set out initiatives that we can at least think across Europe about how we can tax the production factor on capital? We exaggerate work, we overload labour costs, we have labour costs that we can no longer afford, and mobile capital slips us out of the tax possibilities everywhere. This is an Ur European task! Federal Minister! Did you use a "tobin tax" for derivatives? Have you – Austria as a small, active country – launched initiatives in the European Union for the opportunities we Europeans share in the tax field? Federal Minister for Finance! I believe that your representation of reality in Austria may be in the sky-pfortgasse as you have offered it here, but it is not so on the flatland. I wish you all the best in your role as Federal Chancellor!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e8237	Mr Dr. Novotny is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e8259	Mr President. High house! Mr Peter asked about the names of the Minister for Climate Change in history. Mr Peter! The answer is simple: under the name Viktor, and "victor" is called "the Victory". [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If I can believe the "Oberösterreichische Nachrichten", "Clima" is the Czech form of "Klemens", and that is, "the mild". I would say having a mild winner at the head of the state is not bad for the state. [[Congratulations and cheerfulness at SPÖ.]] [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Moreover, before I go into the content, I would like to say a few words on the formal side of this urgent question. A urgent request should be urgent, as the name says. What you wanted to initiate here today is a debate about ten years of coalition government. There is no objection to such a debate in principle, but the right form is to hold such a debate on the occasion of a new declaration of government. What you have done today, namely to try to prefer this debate with a pressing question, that is with all due respect, Mrs Schmidt, I think, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: Did you look at the questions?]] I therefore agree because, on the basis of your urgent question, you say that the objective of your urgent question is a parliamentaryization of politics. To this end, I must say: We are all in favour of a strong position by Parliament. But I am against the fact that one understands such activities, a non-compliance with the Rules of Procedure and, ultimately, because you always place so much importance on them, I must say that - a bad style. I do not think it is right to prefer popular debates on measures which we have to discuss here in Parliament at the right time by means of urgent questions. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: Maybe you should look at the questions before you say something like this!]] It's a question of style, and I think style is something you can control or not control. In this case, unfortunately, you did not control it, Mrs. Schmidt! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As far as the content is concerned, a comprehensive debate will still have to be held. However, I would like to address some specific points here. The first point is debt and debt. Mr Haselsteiner said that he did not know whether he would even begin this government inheritance. That sounds very much like the fox to which the grapes are too sour. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: Only a professional politician like you can't believe that!]] That is why you should not fall right away, Mr Haselsteiner. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, it is true that the debt is higher today than it was ten years ago. But, of course, the social product is much higher than it was ten years ago, and, above all, what is particularly important to us, employment in Austria is much higher today than it was ten years ago. In 1986 we had 2,750 000 employees in Austria, and at the end of 1996, we had 2,954,000 employees. This means that more than 200 000 new jobs have been created in Austria in these ten years. If there is often talk of an American employment miracle, I would like to say that Modesty indicates: There is also an Austrian employment miracle. But this is an employment miracle that has been achieved without social reduction, without additional social exclusion and without working-poor. And we can be proud of that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! All of this has been achieved in a world where there have been the biggest changes in the last ten years: from EU accession to the East opening to the overall economic effects of the World Trade Organisation. Of course, all of this also brings problems, and these are problems that must be taken seriously, but, ladies and gentlemen, if you already want to take stock of it, you have to take a serious balance sheet. And this overall account shows that this Austria is an economically healthy, a powerful and also a wealthy country. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Despite this government!]] Yeah, you're right. Of course, this is not just the success of the government – I admit that immediately, and I am pleased about it – that is the work of millions of Austrians who work as employees, as entrepreneurs, as farmers. And that's recognized. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] But, Mr President, you too will have to admit: The framework for this has created this government. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: They're not good!]] And it was these framework conditions that led to this Austria being today a country in which its inhabitants can be proud and fortunately proud. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Economic and monetary union. I fully agree with what my colleagues from the Liberal Forum meant, namely that it is important for Austria to be at the first stage of this economic and monetary union. It is particularly important for a small country to be fully involved in the single market. We already see that we are increasingly benefiting from this European opening, after the difficulties of the beginning, which have naturally existed. If it is precisely these days that the latest statistics on the development of investment have come out and we can see that in 1996 investment in Austria increased by almost 24 per cent, we can say that this is a proof of confidence in the economy, a proof of confidence by investors in the performance of Austria and the successes we have achieved through this single market. That is to say, this monetary union offers opportunities for Austria, and I also believe that Austria is above-averagely well prepared for this monetary union compared to other countries, not least because it is simply and simply economically a continuation of the proven hard currency policy that we have been running for a long time. I would like to highlight one point in this connection: A secret of why this hard currency policy works so well is a functioning income policy in Austria, and behind it is a functioning action of the economic and social partners in Austria. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I am particularly saying this in the direction of the Liberals, because it is precisely the Liberals who are constantly trying to undermine the activity of this social partnership in Austria. Mr Peter! I can only tell you: If you are interested in effective monetary union if you are interested in seeing this monetary union in Austria as stable, you would be well advised to recognise the positive effects of the social partners in Austria. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, we will take the Maastricht criteria and the issues of stability seriously. I only hope that you have really read the Maastricht Treaty, because then you should know that it is not a matter of points, but of developments, of developments that are going in the right direction. In general, I believe that this government has shown that it is carefully prepared for future challenges and that this also leads to appropriate results in the field of the Ministry of Finance. Some things have already been mentioned here: the two phases of tax reform, a successful financial compensation, the Stability Pact with countries and communities, consolidation policy with social compatibility, a successful budget implementation. These are all the measures behind which there is a lot of work, work of the Minister of Finance, work of the entire Federal Government and work of the head of the Federal Government, the Chancellor. I would also like to say this because, tomorrow, Chancellor Vranckky will say goodbye, and I hope this Parliament will have style enough to ensure that this farewell can be done in a dignified way. As a financial politician, I would like to say: The ten years you have been addressing in your question were undoubtedly difficult years. But there were good years for Austria, good years in which a foundation was built, which can now be used for further successful work.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e8406	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Stummful. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e8428	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In such a general debate as today – ten years of government balance – the danger is always that it will become a pure black and white painting. [[Abg. Böhacker: This is a urgent request and not a general debate!]] It is a general debate, as Mr Novotny rightly pointed out. There is nothing urgent about this – except the need for the opposition to hold a general debate, Mr Colleague! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] In such a debate, the danger is always that the representatives of the government groups will paint everything pink and the representatives of the opposition will paint everything in darker colors. Believe me, the economy – and I speak primarily from the point of view of the economy – can neither be prayed in health, nor should they be sickened. The economy can only be helped with an economic policy which is based on the fact that we have businesses that make profits. [[Abg. Haigermoser: We don't stop you!]] Only the safe jobs, Mr. Colleague. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner.]] And if we are trying to take this balance, Mr. Hazelsteiner – and you have started it – then we must first of all focus very briefly on the environment in which government policy is moving today. Because one thing is clear: I can certainly present a successful government balance, and yet a number of problems have not been solved. As an entrepreneur, you may be the same as I sometimes do: Hardly a problem is solved, two new problems break up. This is the speed of economic and technical progress. This is the rapidity of today's change in the world. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: Workers Protection Act, contract regulations – you have always stood up!]] We live in a world of rapid change. Mr Haselsteiner, you experience this as an entrepreneur, you have to face the problems, and the government is very successful in dealing with these problems. – With the weakness of your arguments, your volume is always increasing, Mr. Hazelsteiner. I've already figured that out. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: What do you think, how he screams first when debated about Goldeck here!]] I do not agree with Goldeck, Mr Haselsteiner, that is what you have promised. You can be calm, I'm not going into it. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: You can do that if you get an order from your clubman!]] Ladies and gentlemen! If you take such a balance, you have to shed light on this environment. We are living at a time when we have never had it: the speed of technical progress as great as never before, the mobility of capital as large as never before. Capital travels there, especially investment capital, where it is most attractive to create jobs. We also have the internal market of the European Union. He's a huge chance, but he means tougher competition. We have to deal with the opening up of Eastern Europe. This means a great opportunity, but also tougher competition. And all in all, this balance has to be taken at a time when our businesses – employees and entrepreneurs – are as required as never before. – We must take all of this into account if we take this balance. In order to prove to you, Mr Hazelsteiner, that I do not want to paint this balance, I would like to admit that we have three central problems in this country which have not yet been solved. If we had solved all the problems, ladies and gentlemen, we could drop the scrollbars, close Parliament and we would no longer need a government. We still have problems, and that is admitted. But we are also confident enough to say: On the basis of the balance sheet over the last ten years, we are committed to solving the problems of the next few years as successfully as possible – without the need for the Liberal Forum in the Government, Mr Haselsteiner! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner.]] We have three central problems. First problem: It would not be the truth if we did not admit that we have an oversized state apparatus. If 21 out of 100 employees are public servants, that means the state apparatus is too large. Second problem, ladies and gentlemen: We must be so honest as to admit that for years we have distributed more than we have been able to work out. This is due to the fact that we have the corresponding deficits in the government budget. And thirdly, we must admit that we have not invested enough in the future and that we have consumed too much in the present. That's not a question at all. [[Abg. Wabl: And who was that?]] Mr Wabl! Only those who work can make mistakes. Whoever doesn't work can never make a mistake! – That applies to you! [[Congratulations and cheerfulness with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If a representative of the government group admits here that we have unresolved problems, then you must also be so honest, Mr Wabl, to say that the balance sheet has been positive over the last ten years. Let me say five examples. First example: Member... – This call is known, Mr. Haselsteiner. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: Work contract scheme! Workers' Protection Act!]] [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] It can also be read in the minutes of the last ten meetings. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: As long as I sit here, you'll hear him!]] I would ask for more imagination at the calls, Mr Haselsteiner. [[Congratulations and cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] Please say at least "sickness fee" – or say something else, but not always "employee protection law"! [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: Say ‘I am!]] A little more creativity, a little more imagination, Mr. Hazelsteiner! You're an innovative entrepreneur. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: Unlike you, my colleague, you are stupid!]] Let me say something, Mr Haselsteiner. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to quote five examples as the first example of the EU. Who would have believed here ten years ago that we could say in 1997 in a ten-year government report: We have been a strong member of the European Union for two years. This is Alois Mock. He was the champion. We have fought with him and can say today that it was a strategic right decision taken by two thirds of the population. And we will be equally involved – I agree with you, Mr Hazelsteiner – in solving the problem of economic and monetary union, because we know that there will only be a common Europe as a monetary union – or there is no common Europe at all, because a single market without a single currency must remain a fragment, a goal. For us, therefore, the solution to the problem of the euro or economic and monetary union is not a monetary and monetary union, but the political challenge of Europe, and we are in the best way – Mr Finanzminster said it – as an economically strong country, as the third strongest country, if we take the gross domestic product per capita, we are successful in taking this step into European monetary union in the European Union. We will accept this challenge as successfully as the challenge of EU accession. Second example: We implemented the principle – and that was actually the long-standing operation of the Austrian People's Party: More private, less state. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: At the CA! Successful!]] Mr Haselsteiner! I register that you do not say "Employee Protection Act" unless you say "Employee Protection Act" and thank you. [[Congratulations and cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] They have been grateful to me from earlier on. What did we have? We had a deficient conglomerate called the State Lights, called ÖIAG, called Austrian Industries. What do we have today? Today we have internationally successful companies, whether they are called VA-Tech, whether they are Stahl AG, whether they are called OMV, or whether they are called Böhler-Uddeholm. A huge change has taken place. This is industrial policy, as we understand it: to make deficit carriers successful, profit-oriented companies! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Third example, ladies and gentlemen: We have turned the control screw back enormously in two tax reforms. Today – admittedly – we have an internationally attractive system of corporate taxation. We have no property tax, no commercial tax, we have abolished the inheritance tax equivalent. Today we have an average taxation of around 34 percent of the commercial income, before it was 51 to 53 percent. That's a proud balance. We still have demands, that's not a question at all. I am very often here and have made demands as a representative of the economy, and I will also put them in the future. But you must be so honest as to recognise the successes, Mr Haselsteiner. Fourth example: Research and development. There is no doubt that we are still lagging behind internationally, but only in the last four years 50 percent more has been invested in research and development. We have only recently decided on the third research billion. We will carry out this future investment in research, development, innovation and technology. [[Interlocutory calls from Dr. Hazelsteiner and Wabl.]] Mr Commissioner, if you are making so many destructive calls for call: We will continue this course successfully! And I wish the Noch-Finanzminister and the non-Bundeskanzler, who has our full support that we continue this successful course just as successfully in the next few years under his leadership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e8681	The next speaker is Mr Böhacker. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e8702	Mr President. Federal Minister! I am rarely in agreement with Mr Novotny, but today I have to give him the right. I too cannot see any urgency in this question at the best, Dr. Haselsteiner. They themselves write in the preamble that next week the new Chancellor will make a statement in which he will announce the broad guidelines of his policy. And I assume – but perhaps I am a too great optimist, Mr Wabl – that the new Federal Chancellor and the old Finance Minister will not celebrate next week as much a fairy tale as today, but rather give a statement of government that has a hand and foot that can also be financially implemented and provides appropriate coverage proposals in the rough framework. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Haselsteiner! Also the 14 questions have absolutely no news value. These are reform projects that have not been implemented for years. That's what I'm right about: There is a need for reform, but the Federal Government is sparse! Thus, the urgent request of the Liberal Forum is simple and simple political theatre, political small money. They wanted to take the future Federal Chancellor into custody. What happened to it? – This first battle won – at least rhetorically – the Minister of Finance. [[Demonstrative applause with the SPÖ and with representatives of the ÖVP.]] Federal Minister! I assume that you, as Minister of Finance, have answered the last urgent question today. Maybe there's another one tomorrow, you don't know. That is why I would like to take the opportunity to take stock of a year's financial minister climate. And it would be unscrupulous to say that there is only negative to report. You, Mr Federal Minister, have understood perfectly well that you have put all the burdens on the citizens that you have imposed on them as almost God willing to present them and to lead them behind the light with beautiful words. You have repeatedly promised the citizen that you will not raise taxes, maintain attractive tax rates and only widen the basis of assessment. The result is an increase in tax revenue of 66 billion schilling in 1996, i.e. an explosive increase in tax revenue! This is the result of a burden policy where the "Mallorca package" Kreiskys was the purest Balearic fan in comparison to the "climate package", Mr. Federal Minister. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But, Federal Minister for Climate, I say to you one: You will experience it as well as your predecessor, Federal Chancellor Vranitzky, who was caught by the truth in connection with the "Pensionist Letter". You, too, will be caught up in the truth once with your burdens! We liberals will ensure that the citizen learns who was responsible for these burdens: You, Minister of Finance! [[New condolences with the liberals.]] If you look away from the sale of the Federal Shares of CA to Bank Austria, where you have drawn the Austrian People's Party properly over the table – I almost want to say you have presented the ÖVP – then the assets in your balance sheet are rather modest. Whether the sale of CA shares to Bank Austria will really be a success is more than questionable given the article in tomorrow's "NEWS". [[Abg. Wabl: Incredible! "NEWS" – the new economic newspaper!]] [[Further calls to the Liberal Forum.]] Bank Austria's main shareholder, AVZ, owes 10 billion. – Mr Federal Minister, did you know that? Balance sheets are only filed after a court order. – Did you know that the AVZ has 10 billion debts? Was that taken into account throughout the CA deal? Mr Finanzminister, you need urgent explanation here! On the other hand, Mr Federal Minister, you have a major responsibility for an anti-local, workplace-hazardous and budget-reduced tax package of between 60 and 70 billion schilling. However, you, Mr Federal Minister, also bear the responsibility for this – you have raised it again today – that the principles of predictability and continuity in tax law have been trampled on last year. In Austria, there is a legal uncertainty in tax law both in the tax citizen and in the financial administration, as it has never been. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You, Mr Federal Minister, are also responsible for the fact that there are tax laws that have been raised in the constitutional order, thus refusing access to justice to the taxpayer. They are responsible for the retroactive amendment of tax laws and for the modification of individual tax laws up to three times a year. The "codex of tax law" was previously re-issued every two years, now there are three expenditures per year – a good business for the authors and for the respective publishing house. Federal Minister! But you also have the responsibility for the work contract, of which you yourself have said, you do not know yourself! They also bear the responsibility if there is a chaos in the collection of the health certificate fee. Why didn't you fight it? This is a fee where the collection, calculation, departure and control costs more than the total revenue from the fee. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Mag. Peter wanted 300 S!]] Federal Minister! Here too, you bear the responsibility! They bear the responsibility for the fact that a tax-prepayment mistake has occurred in tax law, that your successor will have to carry a proper backpack, and that future tax revenue will be collected in order to achieve the budget deficits you have set. I call it the 13th. Sales tax date, 5 percent surcharge for income taxes, IFB special prepayment and, and, This list could be continued at any time. You, Federal Minister, give your successor a heavy backpack on your journey. The future budgets from 1998 onwards will show that these advances on tax revenue have heavily burdened the future generation. You, Mr Federal Minister, are also responsible for the massive decline in citizens' willingness to ecologize tax rights. With the introduction of a electricity and gas tax without the corresponding environmental steering effects, you have taken the public's view that in Austria there will actually be the urgently necessary ecologisation of tax law. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Today, you, Minister of State, have been told several times about how you are going to go into history: They will certainly not act as a successful Finance Minister, but as the Second Republic's Minister of Taxation.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e8800	The next speaker is Mrs Monika Langthaler. She's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e8822	Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! At first I thought about whether to bring a small present to the Noch-Finanzminister today, namely a video cassette entitled "Never Say!" after he had decided to change his job at the last Budget Committee meeting. Secondly, I am not yet clear as to what the Liberals' urgent question has for a purpose, except for that - which has now become clear after Mr Finanzminister's reply - to know a little more about the political people of Viktor Klima than before. So far, you have been known especially in your role as Minister of Finance, as a very subject-oriented manager, who tries more or less well to consolidate a budget, which I would like to return to. You will have to communicate your somewhat broader programme ideas to Parliament and also to the public next week. What you said today and what I heard from the future Federal Chancellor, from the political people, Viktor Klima, has disappointed me relatively. Mr Finanzminister! If I hear expressions like 'Europa-AG', I simply do not think that these new terms are merely a question of substituting all European policy ideas solely to the primacy of economic wish and economy. In Austria, too, it seems to be in keeping with the spirit of time and to be insanely modern, to liberalize and privatize everything, and to ignore politics. Mr Finanzminister! Today you have said about economic and monetary union that this is the largest economic policy measure. I think it is the largest economic experiment in Europe in this century. As is the case with experiments, it can end well or badly. It should be stressed once again: I am in principle in favour of a common European currency. However, you should also read the critical comments and reports in this context. If you quote the "economist", you probably don't get into the suspicion that you want to act anti-European. If one reads through its last edition, also a recently published cover of the "economist" and many studies, also Austria, like the last study on the employment impact of a European currency, then one sees that there is great uncertainty and that the dynamics that may arise can be anything but positive. What bothers me – unfortunately, you have underlined this today by your euphoric presentation of economic and monetary union – is that you demonstrate economic policy and the framework conditions that exist, as well as scientific facts, and act as if it were irreversible and secure measures that will come into force as you plan them at the round table. It is probably not as predictable as the dynamics that can arise in the world markets and in the monetary mechanisms, and it would be right to act more politically and not exclusively to be subordinated to economic constraints. That is why I think it is wrong for Austria, in view of the structure that will exist with a European currency, not to be as vehement in the discussions at European level as, for example, France is in favour of a Council of Stability. I think it is necessary that policy at European level, particularly in monetary union, should be much more integrated and political frameworks, especially in the field of employment policy, and not unconditionally subject to the constraints, so that it can be expressed as "European AG". Clearly, as the Republic of Austria, we are now the subsidiary company, the "Austria AG", and have the Federal Chancellor as manager... [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: Mrs Langthaler! This is a technical project of a stock company that does not have a state of residence! You didn't understand me!]] No, economic and monetary union is not a technical project for me, it is a political project. [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: No, that's not the point! It is intended to create a stock company that no longer has a registered state! These are accounting rules! I did not present the picture "Europe as a AG"! You didn't understand me!]] Then I very much hope that I have misunderstood you in this regard and that you do not consider this project to be purely technical. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Small coalition plank! You won't destroy the traffic lights in the beginning!]] No, we don't need to worry about the future Federal Chancellor. You'll understand much better and faster, I'm afraid than we are. [[Abg. Haigermoser: You pull out the traffic light, that's terrible! The traffic light comes out of the plug!]] They are going to be very helpful, and there is probably nothing in the way of an early engagement. However, I am still pleased if I have misunderstanded you, and I very much hope that you, as future Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, will be subject to these unilateral views and that economic and financial policies will no longer be withdrawn as a political shaping factor. The second reason for this urgent request – you should talk about it – is the short time you have been finance ministers, and are your successes or failure. Assigned: They have achieved a double budget with which we have approached the Maastricht criteria relatively quickly. In preparation for this debate, you will know it, I have read through the OECD economic outlook of December 1996. I think it is important to discuss him in this context, because he shows that, although the master of finance managed to approach the convergence criteria in 1996 and 1997, due to an enormous load package, it does not look so good for the future budgets because of the many measures that have been taken only once. I quote from this OECD report that although a number of structural reform measures have been introduced in the two-year budget for 1996 and 1997 in the social benefit programmes, many of them have only one-off savings in 1997. Unless further action is taken, the OECD Secretariat in its projections is subject to a further increase in the budget deficit to around 3.5% of GDP in 1998 and a further increase in the government debt ratio. The OECD report thus speaks a clear language and confirms what we have already tried to discuss with you in the context of the last budget debate. It will necessarily be necessary for the 1998 and 1999 budgets to be subject to another burden package. In many areas, only one action has been taken. So far, we do not have any information on the direction in which such measures are to go. You talked about a tax reform. I would like to point out – and this has not yet been done to my regret here today – that a poverty conference is taking place in Salzburg this week. There it is repeatedly stressed that in Austria, in the country of which all the previous speakers from the Government have spoken, how wonderful we are and how rich we are, 800 000 to one million people live not only on the margins of poverty, but in part have already been tipped into a poverty trap. I very much hope that the tax reform committee you have set up will also take care of the redistribution and fairer taxation. The fact that the tax system at last comes to an end, I hope not to hope any more. There were so many finance ministers who promised and never implemented it. Unfortunately, there was hardly any discussion about this. I hope you, as Chancellor of the Federal Republic, will force the issue a little more. At the end of the day: I hear that you are desperately looking for a new finance minister and have not yet been found for this important place. We would propose – we can send him here for a short time – to entrust our Professor Van der Bellen with it. He has shown over and over the past few years what great budgetary proposals he has. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein and Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: Where is he?]] He is already preparing for his possible future function. We only borrow him briefly, but if you really get embarrassed, we're open to conversations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e8911	The next speaker is Mr Dr Kier.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e8933	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! [[Abg. Wabl: Now a challenge!]] First of all, I would like to refer to Mr von der FPÖ and Mr Langthaler's practically indignant reluctances, as regards the urgency of the question. [[Abg. Wabl: A clever PR trick!]] The colleague said he was missing out on the news. I'm startled first and I thought it was true, the problems are old. They are at least as old as the present coalition, ten years, even older. He's right. And I have noticed that this is the urgency, Mr President. That questions are just because they haven't been solved for a long time, losing in urgency, you won't be able to claim. On the contrary, we say: The older the unresolved problem, the more urgent its solution! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] The fact that there is, in part, one element in the approach, which the Federal Minister has presented in his reply to the question, in which the effects of solution contours are reflected, is probably correct. But the urgency of this question, among other things, is that structurally the substructure remains the same. It has succeeded in coloring the facade, but the substance remains old. This is bad, because this substance, the structures, such as too much public service, too high and, in particular, false expenditure in many areas, are now temporarily "pained" by linear cuts. But that means at the same time that due to lack of change in the system of pain will come back when the tablet fails. We will not be able to put the entire population under heavy medications every year called "sparpaket". That's not going to happen! Either a habital effect occurs, and people become really sick, confounded, and tired of democracy – that is the last thing we can need – or they die from it in the very sense of the word. Because the urgency has another aspect: The real impact of the savings package in its social imbalance will only come! You haven't gotten hold of it yet. The balances are not yet made, the cuts are before: ==References== February is the first, and so on, and so on. This is quite a reason to take a balance in this direction, since we assume that the Minister of Finance will probably be in the position as Minister of Finance for the last time. He is called to tell us what will be the matter, regardless of whether he will be Finance Minister in the future or Federal Chancellor. This is a single policy and not a policy of "part and rule!"That one does evil and the other does good, one is praised and the other is plagued. The Federal Government is in total liability for the result! In this sense, it is very important that the person responsible for the financial sector – in the end the seam of all these problems – should be given a speech and an answer here. This is more urgent today than ever, because the challenges have remained the old ones. We have heard it again today from colleagues stupidly: We will accept the challenges courageously! – Yes, this has been what this government has been doing for ten years, that it has taken up the challenges courageously, but apparently it has at best caught a small Zipferl from below. Then the challenges were reunited and still remained the same. The fact that Mr Collegue stupidly referred to the renovation of the state-owned industry is remarkable. I would like to say from this speaker's point of view: If I was given the opportunity to make massive capital cuts three times with the help of the public hand and then to be rehabilitated, I would also do so. If you repudiate some private bankruptcy by simply making the lost capital available two to three consecutively, until the company is at last no longer pleading, and then praise it as your performance, I say: That was the performance of taxpayers, but not the government or management! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] If the Federal Minister has referred to legal certainty and framework conditions as essential criteria, I can only agree with him. However, back-effects in the laws, as we have recently experienced in disproportionately high numbers, are no indication of high legal certainty, no help for the economic location and no reason for the population to assume that they are properly governed. Another aspect is research and development. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make a point of order. I have a good long-term memory and remember that from this pult in 1987 the members of the government groups announced: Now comes the great research and technology offensive! Now we have privatized the interlocutory society, now the billions are there, from now on it's uphill! That was ten years ago. Where are we today? – In a research wave valley, far away from OECD averages. We will still have the opportunity to talk about it today. I am very concerned that this process will be repeated and we are now again being announced a major technology offensive of the same cut as the one promised and missed in 1987. These were only soothing words that should explain what the money was taken for, because one did not want to admit that one actually needed to put the holes in the households. This announcement would be more credible today if it did not come from a federal government which has already made such announcements for the time being, but not once. If, in his reply to the question, the Federal Minister has referred to social cohesion as one of our highest goods, I can only agree with him. Of course, the social cohesion of a society is one of the foundations on which it can be well disputed, on which the economy should be able to develop well and on which we should be able to live together peacefully. But it must be borne by all! It must be carried in the economic dimension by those who provide the services in the economy. These people must be convinced that they are delivering their services for something that is usefully designed. Believe me! On the other hand, if you think you're going to pay into a falsely constructed barrel without soil, you'll be stunned for a short or long time. Then they say to themselves: What do I do if those whom I entrust my money – the ones in the first address "Finanzamt", in the second address "Finance Minister" and in the third address "Federal Government" – do not spend the money carefully? That doesn't make you happy! In this sense and to the colleague Langthaler came back: This is not the question of "the primacy of the economy or the primacy of politics?", but it is the question of "primary reason". If we set the right goals and do not make one for one’s own purpose for the other, if we focus on the people and if we together consider a new social contract that can be financed, then everyone will be happy to participate in it. But it will also be necessary to enable those who are happy to participate in this system to do so. If we don't, the joy will be reduced. Then we will not even create a new social contract. The Federal Minister has said that the debate on financialability is important. I am glad that he recognized this, but I say that is just one element. The second is the discussion of the objectives and the possibility of their achievement. This includes, for example, social security. Because if we don't pay where it is really necessary, but simply distribute evenly, so that as much as possible everyone praises, even those who don't really need it, then we make a serious mistake. All these structural reforms have not yet been implemented. Since that will probably be the same tomorrow, it may be even more urgent tomorrow. At least it was urgent today. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e8999	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Merchant. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e9020	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! There is, I believe, a fundamental error in the concept of reform when reading the question through. For everything you want and we do not want to do, you call it a reform, and everything you want and we do not want and therefore is not implemented, you call it a reform. That is, I believe, a fundamental error. [[Abg. Hans Helmut Moser: for your part!]] In part of what you call reform, there are simply different political objectives. We want something else. This has nothing to do with reform inability. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Some of what you want actually is reform, namely when it comes to reducing bureaucracy, using new technological possibilities in administrative services, more customer-friendly services et cetera. But reform, particularly in neoliberalism, usually means adaptation, particularly of rights, of the potential of workers downside. That is something we simply do not want to do, which we reject from the principle. We do not want any deterioration for workers, we do not want to take any worse off for the weaker. An example: We are going to talk about working time flexibility in some time. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: Nice to meet you!]] We also consider it necessary to bring about changes in this area in order to make adjustments, such as to systems and customer wishes, better. But this increase in efficiency must be good for all. This must also be an advantage – and be it in the form of more freedom – for workers. This can not only be done at the expense of the workers by being on the agenda at any time, or by rationalising overtime supplements. This is not the reform we mean. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Reform, particularly in public administration, should be understood as a constant process of change, as what Minister Klima called a project of intelligent change. We must also be careful in our parliamentary work that no mistakes occur to us. I call a mistake for which the Social Democratic Party is certainly not jointly responsible, namely the disaster at the health certificate fee. We always wanted to find a much better solution through a small supplement to health insurance, about 0.1 percent – 0.05 percent for employees and 0.05 percent for employers. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You decided!]] [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: You wanted an increase in additional wage costs!]] This solution is now one – and I say this self-critically for the whole house – which is bad for both entrepreneurs, because it causes a huge red tape, but it is also very bad for workers. We are currently having a wealth of complaints, for example by the unemployed, which are forced to go to the county capital and get the health certificate from the AMS, from the labour market service. – A complete absurdity that you may have to take two hours' drive for a health certificate! If a person is exempt from the health certificate fee, the person concerned must obtain a health certificate at the AMS, then go to the health insurance fund, get the confirmation that he is exempt from the fee, and then he must return to the AMS to get the 50 S. This is something that has to be changed. That's just about reform. There we must start with the reforms, and we must not decide on measures that are inefficient here. Our proposal, namely the fee to increase insurance a little, would have been a much, much better way. In this sense, I also believe that there is also a certain degree of honesty in the reform, for example, in connection with this health certificate fee, honesty, for example, if those who reject public property which in Lower Austria, in Upper Austria, in Salzburg, in public undertakings, welcome to the EVUs et cetera, then honesty if, for example, a party rejects the liability of the municipalities at the savings banks, but does not do so when it comes to national liabilities in the national hypos, then honesty is when someone speaks of liberal trade regulations and in the draft of this trade order by a regional monopoly et cetera the monopoly of the smoke-catchers. When we talk about reform, we also need to show the necessary honesty in this House. One last point. Under reform, we should understand a constant process of change, an adjustment process also to a changing reality. In Austria, gross domestic product per capita has grown by 5 per cent over the last ten years than in the EU average. GDP per capita is 10 per cent higher than the EU average. Although the unemployment rate has increased, it is still less than half of the EU average. As far as the inflation rate is concerned, we are also 2 percentage points below the EU average per year, and we are indeed a safe country. If, as in the case of this question, we are talking about public debt, it must be clear to everyone that it is not about absolute amounts, but about relations, in particular with regard to the relation to gross domestic product, and that government debt in 1996, 1997, 1998 will fall in this relation. If we are talking about the reduction of public debt, a liberal economic politician should also think that there is not only the possibility of reducing public debt, but also the possibility – and I think this is much better – to ensure that growth rates in Europe increase again. What we need in Europe is higher economic growth. This higher economic growth will only be achieved if there is also a departure from neoliberal approaches in European economic policy if this economic policy is not only based on stability criteria, but ultimately also on growth criteria. I believe that this too will be a necessary reform.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e9114	The next speaker is Mr. Dr. König. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e9136	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I was actually surprised, Mr Haselsteiner, that in your speech you needed the expression "unselfish coalition". You know, if such a black painting is such a black and white representation, and if it is so unbelievable, then it is actually also a depreciation of what you have reasonably held here critically. I deeply regret this because it makes a serious discussion almost impossible. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Who, then, do I want to ask you, as the great coalition could have removed in Austria a nationalization law, which has been incorporated into constitutional law, and thus gradually made possible and introduced the necessary privatisation at all? . Examples of the successes achieved in this way have already been boldly brought by my colleague. Who, then, as the great coalition would have managed to join the EU in the 1. To bring about years of 1995 – in the case of resistance within the EU, in the opposition to the EU Parliament and in the event of an unhindered uncertainty on the part of the population – is that not true of your party – through free and green opposition? – Only the great coalition, through its contacts and due to the appreciation enjoyed by then Foreign Minister Alois Mock in the world, and by its immense commitment, did it achieve this goal in good time for Austria. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] It commanded fairness and propriety, also stating that it was also a merit – and this was just the possibility of the great coalition – of the Federal Chancellor Franz Vrannitzky that, in spite of the many fears and resistances in the SPÖ, he also led the coalition partners to make such an essential decision for Austria. This is also to be recognised here. When it comes to the implementation of the stability criteria that we need to ensure that Austrian schilling is not separated from the D-Mark when the European Monetary and Economic Union comes, and when it comes to meeting these stability criteria without social unrest, as is the case in so many European countries, who would have done so as the great coalition? We have just adopted socially balanced measures to achieve the objective. You had to admit for yourself, Mr Haselsteiner, that your fears that this objective will not be achieved in 1996 have not been met. You've known this, but you've added it right now: But it will probably not be achieved in 1997! At the end of 1997, they will have to admit that this objective will be achieved because it is an important concern for our country, one that will see the great coalition as one of the most important reform projects. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! And all of this in a break-up situation that concerns the whole world and that Austria cannot escape. With the opening of the East Austria, of course, competition from the East came, on the other hand, through GATT for all states globalisation, competition with the low-cost countries in the new industrialized countries of Asia. In addition, technical progress in healthcare came with the exploding costs of modern medicine. In addition, the effects of demographics, i.e. the lower birth rate, the longer age and the declining number of children, were added. – All this, please, it must be handled. At this time, the coalition has reintroduced considerable social benefits. We have the best care vacation system so that mothers can be with their children. We have the best care money in Europe, and we also have a leadership position in Europe in the environmental field. These are reforms that this coalition has enforced! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] This is not the result of an "unselfish coalition". Indeed, a number of things had to be taken back in view of the pressures of external challenges. But we are still at the forefront in these areas. After speaking to my colleague, Mr Prinzhorn, I would like to say to him from history – he is not here for so long – that it is always easier for the opposition to be criticized – which is legitimate – but it is always easier to implement than anything then. At the time when the Freedom Party was in the government – and don't say that it was quite different, because Mr Holger Bauer was the responsible State Secretary in the Ministry of Finance, who was involved in the financial and tax policy at the time – you couldn't reform anything in this area. Debts increased every year, and the gross deficit, as measured by the domestic product, also increased every year. There were increasing deficits, up to 5.1 percent of gross domestic product. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: The only reduction was 1985!]] The reductions then took place in the large coalition, three years through 0.5 percent, to 3.8 percent. [[Contradiction of the Abg. Dr. Ofner.]] Look, Mr. Ofner. As Minister of Justice, one does not know these figures exactly, as one has, admittedly, other tasks. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Böhacker: After all, he was in the government, but you were not!]] This is in the Court of Auditors' report and not in the budget. A lot can be written into the budget, but in the Court of Auditors' report it is inconceivable and incorruptible. Since we are talking about reforms, including reforms that have been neglected, I must say to Mr Hazelsteiner again: Call me a country in our area, i.e. in Central Europe, which prescribes a profit-based tax of only 34 percent and thus gives them the opportunity to actually raise capital! My colleague, Mr President, has already said this: The profit-independent taxes – asset tax, commercial capital tax – were abolished, the inheritance tax equivalent was abolished. That is, the profit-dependent tax is 34 percent. And that's why the German Chancellor praised Austria and said: This should also be an example for us, for the German tax reform, because the taxes for the entrepreneurs there are known to be 58 percent. [[Abg. Böhacker: What do you say about the municipal tax?]] If this is not one of the most crucial advantages for the companies, then, I believe, one simply is not fair in the assessment of the facts. The tax reform for the self-employed can also be seen, because we have previously stated to the principle that in any case no more than 50 percent of the tax will have to be paid to the state, that is, not more than half of what you deserve. This goes down to the smallest income and to the minimum tax-free living we have introduced for workers, to the negative tax that, as Mr Finanzminister mentioned, there is otherwise nowhere else that we have introduced for the socially weak. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] These reforms are characterised by economic, but also social, balances. In this respect, the coalition has not been a "unselling" but a very blessed one because it has maintained social peace in our country. This social peace is also the basis for our having twice as many foreign investments today as before, while Switzerland is stagnating in this regard because Austria is a safe country. It is also the best help for entrepreneurs. Mr Haselsteiner, if you are a successful entrepreneur, you must say: That's it. This is a great progress that has been made in this country in the time of the great coalition. Or the agricultural reform. Here are the Members of the Liberals, especially the Member of Parliament has gone about Huber and said: This will never be paid! The biggest agricultural reform had to be made because the EU has a different system. On Heller and Pfennig, the farmers got their money. Today we have 50 percent of the total organic farmers in Europe. If this is not a reform, what has been a reform in the interests of farmers and agriculture? [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Competition with Germany is also not the way it is sometimes presented. We now have 14 percent lower unit labour costs, and ten years ago we had 9 percent higher than Germany. This is the increased competitiveness due to the increase in productivity. So we shouldn't always put our light behind the sheffel. Finally, I would like to say: I firmly believe that, in the end, all Austrian reforms, which are made with a social eye, are socially balanced and therefore also carried by the population, are the best for the country and for its population – and the best to claim our place in Europe.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e9257	Mr Bauer has made a statement on an actual correction. I would draw attention to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e9281	Mr President. Mr King said that in the time of the small coalition the deficits had increased continuously. That's wrong. I'm correcting as follows: There was a net decline of 65.6 billion schilling in 1983 – the small coalition did not prepare the budget for 1983 – which corresponded to a deficit ratio of 5.4 percent of the gross domestic product. This resulted in a reduction in 1984: in absolute numbers from 66 billion to 57 billion schilling or from 5.4 percent to 4.5 percent. [[Abg. Wormitzer: The "Mallorca package"!]] It followed a net deficit of 60 billion or 4.4 percent in 1985 – a recent downturn! – and, you can hear and wonder, this deficit development was reversed by the great coalition in 1987 with 74.7 billion schilling net deficit or 5.0 percent deficit ratio. That's the truth!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e9332	The next speaker is Mr Prinzhorn. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e9354	Mr President. Minister! I was not quite convinced of the sensibleness of these urgent matters, but I must say that the answer, Mr Minister, of you and the wonderful speech of your business spokesman has taught me a better one. My children would say your answer was "cool," Mr. Minister. To quote the World Competition Report, where Austria has just crashed, and to read out social peace as a special progress and special success in 1985/1986, is just as cool as to say that Austria has no need for the state to withdraw from the economy. There is also a report on this. [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: Differential!]] You said that, I heard that between your words, you expressed it very populist and skillfully. There is also a report, and that is the world bureaucracy report, as you know, and according to this report, Austria has the highest bureaucracy rate. So all in all "cool" and certainly said particularly skillfully by you, but we will still have to explain some things in the future. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But you, Mr. Minister, have recently made a very large bow in an event and called an amount of 400 billion schilling, where in Austria a biterl "clamps". These 400 billion, Minister, are made up of 100 billion interest-rate services for debt, 200 billion civil servants' costs and pensions and 100 billion schilling of grants you have to make to the social security and pension insurance system because the contributions do not cover this. I have to tell you: Your words have sounded as if reforms in this sector were necessary. You have said quite skillfully today that you are speaking here as Minister of Finance and not as future Chancellor, because otherwise I would have expected some reforms from you regarding these 400 billion cakes. But there's still time next week, and I'm very excited about that. Now you have professionalized yourself in the breakdown of debt and other liabilities, very skillfully. They have fled into a grey zone, which I do not mean is negative, into a grey zone of balance sheet truth, at least to balance sheet law, but that is the budget and the Maastricht criteria. Again and again we will highlight and produce a black and white scenario, because such a grey zone is a dangerous thing. You know how auditors would judge that. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The advance of revenue with the tax package – that was it, and you have said so fairly – in order to meet the Maastricht criteria is an extremely difficult thing, which will fall back on you and all of us in 1998. It has already been said enough about the 1998/1999 budgets, including by Mr Haselsteiner. And the third, the privatisation of state resources to stop holes in order to meet the Maastricht criteria, I think is particularly bad because all of this does not solve the core problem, the reform stand that we are being tested internationally – that is, not our opposition parties, but there are enough international comparisons outside the EU, within the OECD, which confirm all of this –. The public service – this 200 billion schilling – is certainly the starting point. I have to tell you: Elimination of debts, the exclusion of companies that actually remain in state ownership, where one then deducts the employees of this society and constitutes a savings – Mr Minister, we do not! Because if we have a controlling system – and I'm quite sure you do – then, you know, you lie yourself in the bag, and the 3,500 officials you've depleted are distributed. I'm telling you, that's not a savings. Your Secretary of State Schlögl will now be called upon as Minister of the Interior, and I think he has good approaches. I hope that your institutions will also give him the power – not to say the freedom – to implement it. That's the 200 billion schilling. A second area is the protected area, Minister. That's where you leaned far. This is in particular the Telekom and Post debate, where you said everything is all right, because we don't have to cut people down, that's all right. Have a year ago She was very much involved in this and said that was a horror scenario. – I say to you: You'll have to cut down twenty thousand employees there. You currently have over 50,000, and you will end with 35 000. They have not really said the truth in this area. In the Telekom area, there is a need for a reduction of 5 000 to 6 000 employees, in which "yellow mail" is one of about 10,000 employees. In addition, a new fee system comes by the phone, you also know where the "yellow post" with about 5 billion schilling is subsidized by the domestic calls, by the participants in the country who cannot defend themselves. Not the economy that answers with a call-back system, but those who cannot defend themselves, you will impose the highest phone fees, and at the post you will cancel twenty thousand people. Remember my words! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] At the moment, it is true that the letter carrier will be able to measure the load on work in December. That's a very foolish story! We know what the workload of a postman in December looks like. With such studies you are doing, and on the basis of which you say: This is just the post staff requirement!, you will not only lose 75 percent of the parcel service you have already lost, but you will lead the whole post into ground and ground – and then the whole thing is to privatize. Then private will have to clean up what has been missed. But the reforms in the social security and pension insurance system are also a great story, Mr Minister. The hidden debt in the social and pension insurance system in Austria is the highest worldwide with 300 percent. I can already prepare you for the next time to present a very interesting study on this subject, in which there is also a major failure on the part of the government to do so. That is why I believe that the pension guarantee given by your predecessor and the mayor, Häupl, has quickly and wisely relativized, was one of the major errors of this government. But also since you have to present the truth again and in the end you must not insure the "little man". Insurance is caused by such statements – and not by the representations of the opposition. The three-pillar pension system – I do not need to tell you – will have to cover you from tax revenue. That would, in terms of business science, have been a bankruptcy for a long time. With regard to the environmental tax reform already mentioned by Mr Haselsteiner, we have made free proposals. Their tax reform was nothing but a burden. Minister Bartenstein has already run around with the slogan of environmental tax reform and the reduction of additional wage costs. The remaining ones are nothing but that billions in addition have migrated into your pocket. Not a trace of ecology! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You mentioned the administrative reform very briefly. I hope that your new Minister of Finance Stix, who at least made a small referendum in Burgenland, will really bring this reform into this government. At least once, at least in a small time, you may be able to take over this from the "early statesman" Stix at the federal level. The legislation, which has already been passed there and which we have been demanding for many years, which we have called for in 1996 and which we will again demand in 1997, is a first step in this direction. The Burgenland has at least taken this step. It remains the triangle of government debt – tax rate – unemployment. Minister! Public debt increased by 50 billion schilling in 1996, from 1,680 to 1,700 and some billion. She didn't get any less. The tax rate has increased from 43 per cent to 43 per cent and unemployment has also increased. As you want to get through in this magical triangle with the proposals for reform, with competition, with the conditions of the location that Austria needs, with the State of reform, which must also be financed – I must say, this is indeed a miracle that is expected of you. Mr Novotny, I am quite right in this regard. Tu felix climate or you "Wunderwuzi", you are very much required here. Our support you have as long as you stick to the truth and don't camouflage and hide nothing. I'd like to announce this right here. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Employment will become the biggest problem. You know what unemployment costs. We currently see it in Germany: The 200 000 additional unemployed cost 6 billion D-Mark. We also have similar relations in Austria. We will have a dramatic increase in unemployment in Austria. Please also see the social component of this unemployment, which the divorced German chancellor – I would like to say from this point on – has repeatedly negated. I am not only expecting more warmth from you, but also more attention, because I believe that this is not just an economic question, but also, ultimately, a high-political question in which you are required not to ask the poor, the weak and the disabled to check out, but to keep an eye out. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Finally, I can only tell you – I know that all sounds like the square of the circle, and that's de facto too –: Pragmatism alone will not be possible. As a populist, I met you; I recognize that. I only hope, Minister of Climate, that you are really as strong as you are. I wish you!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e9433	The Federal Minister has spoken. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e9455	Mr President. High house! I do not know whether there is something like the Institute of Actual Correction for a Federal Minister. Mr Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn! I always try to formulate very precise. I have never said that there is no great, necessary potential for increased efficiency in the field of postal and telecoms. I never disputed that! I have just said that it will not be necessary to cancel 6,000 or 8,000 people. And as an old head of staff, I say, Employment is a legal concept. I have always said that a reduction in the number of employees is necessary and that can be achieved through fluctuations and natural processes. You should take a look at how high the fluctuations are at the post office per year. I am not talking about the natural departure from pensions, but only about the fluctuations. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Not even 1,000 people are gone through the natural finish!]] Mr. Dr. Haider! What is the fluctuations per year with Post and Telekom? [[Abg. Dr. Haider: It's called: With the natural finish we do that!]] Let's stay precise. The fluctuations are almost 5,000 per year at Post and Telekom. Not the retirements! You understand only retirement under natural retirement. There's less, you're absolutely right. But in total... [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You have explained that you do it with the natural finish, not with the fluctuations!]] Mr. Dr. Haider! It was about the need for a correction from my point of view, as Mr Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn said that 8 000 notices were needed. That is exactly what your statement was about a year ago, ladies and gentlemen, Dr. Haider. You said there was a need for cancellations. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You said you did that with the natural finish!]] I say again: There is rationalization, there is a need to increase efficiency, but after notification of the management of the post, this can be done without notice.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e9535	The next item is the report by Mr Gusenbauer. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Now I'm looking at it!]] The speaking time of Mr Gusenbauer is 8 minutes. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e9565	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The subject of today's urgent question has been a review of the last ten years and of the status of reform. In fact, I do not think it is an incentive to be superlative, but there is also no reason to put the light of Austria under the sailor, for one must be noticed: Within a year, the deficit ratio has been reduced by a third – this is a significant achievement, especially for the Austrian population. In Austria, it has succeeded in developing a package of savings and consolidation, which does not, as in other European countries, result in mass demonstrations taking place – even in the deepest winter as last year in France – but that we have a certain acceptance of these measures in the Austrian population, although they are unpleasant in various sectors. Thirdly, I also believe that the path of reform which we are taking in Austria is essentially different from that of the fact that it is not a reform of recklessness, but a reform which takes account of the human dimension and of democratic consensus in the population. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! These are the other results, which are also not so small from abroad in relation to Austria. With regard to reforms in mind, I should like to point out that it was on 22 March. October last year was the German Chancellor Kohl, who, in his great speech before the CDU Party, pointed out that in Austria, those reforms that cannot be implemented in Germany are being carried out. In this context, he referred to the "model Austria" as an example for Germany, as a model for making reforms that are only necessary there. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! They expressed concern about our qualifications for the Maastricht criteria or the first round of economic and monetary union. To this end, I can tell you that the Research Institute of the Deutsche Bundesbank led on 21 January. A clear assessment of Austrian data was carried out by January and noted that there can be no doubt at all that Austria will be present in the first round of economic and monetary union. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And since Mrs Langthaler pointed out that in the European Union too much emphasis was placed on economic policy, that, apart from the concrete fulfilment of the Maastricht criteria, there would be too little discussion about additional initiatives in Austria, I would add that the prevention of automaticism in the Stability Pact at the last summit in Dublin would most likely not have been possible without the great effort of the Austrian Minister of Finance Viktor Klima and that it would most likely not have been possible to include the employment chapter as a central objective in the new draft Treaty for the European Union, if not Austria had since its membership had been at the heart of the question of employment in Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I also take note with interest of the fact that just a few days ago, the Minister of Finance met the Swedish Minister of Finance and discussed a question that is of vital importance to the further development of economic and monetary union, namely tax harmonisation in the field of VAT, capital income tax and corporate taxes in the European Union, i.e. precisely those areas in which there can be distortions of competition if there is no harmonisation. That is, to say, Austria does not set up initiatives in this European Union, I think it is unfair and drawn up by the hair! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! In this context, however, a criterion should also be considered for all budgetary discipline, namely that it is crucial: How is the Austrian population, how can income be secured in Austria, and how do we obtain a corresponding domestic demand? It must be thought to everyone that for years in our neighbouring country, Switzerland, the so-called economic model or wonderland, even the Swiss Minister of Economic Affairs is now talking about Switzerland being in the worst economic crisis over the last 30 years. And although the franc has fallen in its value and Switzerland's exports may increase again, the Swiss Minister of Economic Affairs himself said: This will be of no use to us unless domestic demand increases. But there are no indications. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, in all these economic policy considerations, the most important factor must not be forgotten, and the most important factor is man, is the citizen, the consumer, the employee in this country, and on whose purchasing power we have to consider with our economic and monetary policy in Austria. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is important to note what Mr Finanzminister said about the introduction of the euro in Austria. He said that it would be necessary to be sound, to address all the concerns that exist in the population in order to create confidence through responses that policy gives. I believe that, if we want to see a democratic consensus for this currency changeover in Austria, it will be crucial that we establish a confidence pact with the citizens, consumers and workers, so that this changeover, as the current central project of European integration, also meets democratic agreement and consensus in Austria. We'll work for it!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e9636	The next speaker is Mr Mühlbachler. The remaining speaking time of his group is 6 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e9657	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to say that all the opposition speakers have been able to see that there is no sense of reform. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Have you been working?]] And now that a brief call has come out of the "F" corner dear friends of the liberals! [[Abg. Haigermoser: That was not an intermediate call, but a comment on your formulation!]] I remember from your government participation only the so-called Mallorca package. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to say the following about the reforms: I believe that many people are doing something that they basically do not want to have fulfilled by the government. Dr. Hazelsteiner! You have said, among other things, that it would be essential to go from compulsory insurance to insurance. Dr. Hazelsteiner! Lead I would also like to ask the people what this would mean, and above all say this to all those young people who are now in the labour process, who have more or less the obligation to pay compulsory insurance contributions for the older generation, but on the other hand have to pay privately for their own provision. Please, tell me. You're all the truth, not always half-truths! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] The Austrian People's Party confesses itself to a second status in pension insurance – no question at all! – but it must remain the highest bid and, of course, the insurance that gives people the certainty that they are actually pensionable that they are entitled to a pension. Many of them also mount the ecologisation of taxes. Of course, we are concerned about how an ecologisation of the tax system could take place, but I tell you the following, ladies and gentlemen, of the opposition: This will certainly not be a programme to be done from today to tomorrow, because just by ecologizing could possibly result in the effect that the mobility of the population is lost or suffers loss or the effect of damage to the population in peripheral areas. There is already a great deal of thought to be given to how this ecologicalisation is being addressed. It is not simply a matter of taxing energy, for example, so that labour costs can be reduced. The recipes are really not that simple, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] One last thing: Mr Bauer of the "F" said there would have been no re-indebtedness. . I am not authorized to provide assistance to a former Secretary of State for Finance, but one thing is clear: [[Abg. Parnigoni: If he doesn't understand, then!]] A net debt all means an increase in the debt burden. That is clear to me, that is also clear for every Austrian, and in so far as I think this was really essential to his actual correction. Mr Finanzminister! As the chairman of the Committee on Budgets, I am sorry that you are no longer Minister for Finance in the future. On the other hand, of course, I would like to congratulate you very much on choosing to become Chancellor of Austria. I wish you all the best on your way, above all, that you keep an open ear for "little" Members, no matter what color they belong to! – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e9742	The next speaker is Mr Schreiner. The speaking time of his group is 7 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e9764	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Gusenbauer – unfortunately he is not in the room now – has spoken of the need for a confidence pact with the citizens when the single currency is introduced. I agree. Mr Gusenbauer, Federal Minister of Finance and colleagues from the government parties, will make a test of this. The liberals demand a referendum on this before the introduction of the euro. This would be the only way to check whether this euro enjoys confidence in the population. That's what I mean by a confidence pact if you really demand it. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Gusenbauer! They discussed the issue of tax harmonisation in the European Union. This is certainly a legitimate concern for economic reasons, because it is not a matter of certain States having tax types which are not available in other countries, but are all equally subject to competition. Austria does not allow the luxury of a 10 percent beverage tax, all other 14 EU countries do not have it. But one thing, Mr Gusenbauer, is not clear to me, where social democracy actually wants economic policy. You're talking about tax harmonisation – right! – but that also means narrowing an existing range. With regard to sales tax, we have the situation that, according to a recommendation, the minimum level of turnover tax is at a percentage of 15 percent, the maximum level is 25 percent. How is it that, ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy, their Member, Mr Meier, in the European Parliament, has agreed to withdraw this cover of 25 per cent, so that there is now quite simply a free letter in the European Union to be able to demand more than 25 per cent of VAT? Federal Minister for Finance! On the occasion of today's urgent question of the Liberal Forum, we must, from a liberal point of view, see that we are too easy to consider the achievements of this government, the last cabinet of Vranitzky, from our point of view. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: That's what matters, who's on the balance! That's where you have to stand. You're overweight!]] We have found three things: a permanent unwillingness to carry out reforms, an inability to really address them at the right time, and also a lack of willingness to perform on many reforms. Two topics from your department, Mr. Federal Minister, have come to my mind in connection with this – I have mentioned this first – how we have dealt with the planned introduction of the single currency Euro, and this also depends on the question: Can this federal government and its representatives really be trusted? Federal Minister! Three days before the famous EU referendum on 9 October. In June 1994, there was a press release of the Socialist Party, in which it said: "The schilling remains." Some days later, when it had gone over the stage, they said: The acceptance of the Maastricht package clearly opens the way to adopting the schilling into a single currency. Federal Minister! Lies have short legs. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Of course, many people have insisted that this press release of the 9th century. June was nothing more than a paper for the "round-up" – no more and no less. The question of how to deal with the truth is, I believe, a category that politicians should really take to heart. It is a difference whether the public, the citizens are told the truth and if they are told quite openly or whether they are enslaved because they do not believe in being caught. A second question, Mr Federal Minister, who is now burning up again, is that of the anonymity of the savings books and the way in which the Federal Government and you as finance ministers are dealing with this matter. I say the following to you: Give Austrians – and this also applies to your successor as Minister of Finance – genuinely pure wine! It will not be possible to drive a slalom between the requirements of the European Union's money-laundering directive, which we have to implement very easily, if we believe the letter of the EU Treaty, and to do so on the other hand, as if it were not for Austria. The only correct way, Mr. Federal Minister, would have been to negotiate until the night of the 28th. In February 1994 to deposit: We Austrians do not accept the implementation of this money laundering directive; we insist on the anonymity of our securities accounts and savings books. – That would have been a clear language. You can't say now that you unfortunately didn't know it as well, or believe it won't be eaten as hot as it is cooked. Now we have the salad! It would have been possible – the comparisons with the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Denmark are obvious – in certain areas that are not accepted to make an opting out. Then the EU should have decided whether to wish the net payer Austria or not to accept it or not. That would have been a clear and clean solution. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! These clear and clean solutions we have in the past, we have missed in the ten years of this great coalition with many of your colleagues, but also with many finance ministers, with you, Mr. Klima, in your predecessor and your predecessor. There have been many things left on the road because it was not clearly said the truth, because it has not been clearly said what is going on in the economy and in the taxpayers. Instead, in many areas one has listed a slalom between half-truth, promise and withdrawal. For the answer to the simple question: How really is that? You have provided an excellent example in the contract. You sit in a government, a Council of Ministers decides something – and afterwards you say you don't know yourself, but you think that the small trader, who has a contractor, can handle this matter if you don't know yourself. I would recommend: Instead of becoming a Federal Chancellor, go to the people in the wage offices and fill out the work contracts and the reports to social security schemes!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e9825	I declare the debate ended during the urgent question. The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e9847	This will allow us to resume the negotiations on points 3 to 5 of the agenda on reports from the Committee on Science and Research. Mr Dr Niederweiser came to speak. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e9871	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I would like to start by referring to a few of the points made by my previous speaker in this debate on the research report, by Mr Krüger, which, however, has hardly been concerned with the research report, but which it was important to deal with the management of the Federal Minister Dr. Scholten, in the broad range, he has left out only the traffic. Mr Krüger! Ladies and gentlemen from the Freedom Party! Where you have seen this power struggle within the Social Democratic Party, which is supposed to have been killed here, I am completely obscene, because from such a coordinated transfer of such important offices, you and many others could cut off a piece: without power struggle, in peace, after material and balanced considerations – unlike these power struggles do with you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You should not have scattered roses to Mr. Dr. Scholten, but if you have called him "ideology minister" in his capacity as Minister of Art at the same time, let me say: The really big and important The merit of Mr. Dr. Scholten in this area was to uphold the principle of freedom of art in Austria and in this House and to defend him against attacks that have permanently just come from your side. This is a lasting merit, and this is also an assignment to the new Minister. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In my opinion, an ideology minister is nothing negative in itself. A minister is not the chief official of his place of business, but he is there to define lines, he is there to make politics in his place of business. Of course – and that is all right and must be the same – this policy will be based on ideological positions. That is also what it means to make policy, that is the difference to managing. I have no fear of contact when a Federal Minister seeks to implement ideological principles and does so as Dr Scholten did with the principle of freedom of art. Now the research report, which has been completely indifferent to the chairman of the Scientific Committee. First: Education, science and research are the most important capital of a country, especially a small country in an international community. The ability to enter into international cooperation is a second important point. But it is even more important to be able to create and shape innovations from this position. A third point: Research pays all the citizens of a country through their taxes. They therefore have a right to learn what is being researched, and they also have a right to seek a certain benefit from it over and over again. And our task is to speak for them in this sense. A fourth point: Technology policy – a very common concept in these days – is less than research policy, and technology policy would be too short as a state policy objective. I would like to draw attention to the focus of the 1996 research report, which deals with information technology, on communication. I come back to the European Union's most recently discussed topic, which we have different approaches. In this example, I would like to point out how research policy can be understood. If research teams – whether public or private – are involved in developing new technical approaches in the field of information technologies, this is something that is important that can bring us forward, especially in the European Union, in which it is about dealing with hundreds of translations. This is the technical approach. There is, however, just as much the necessary contribution from the language researchers; there are contributions from other sciences, such as the educators, who can find new approaches, how languages can be learned more easily. And if I remember that in about ten years a number of new Member States and thus a number of new languages will prevail – whether Slovenian, Polish or Latvian – then we see how important the development of these information technologies is. But even if progress was to be made here, a large research area was left to deal with what the constitution of a European structure with 20 or 25 Member States should look like, a constitution which takes into account that the big ones cannot match the small ones, which at the same time takes account of the fact that there is a Parliament appreciation, but which would then be a body with more than 1,000 people, in which perhaps many no longer know what is happening overall. Therefore, it is also important to bring in knowledge from research in this area. Who can convey such knowledge? – That can be the constitutional lawyers, certainly, but let’s go back to history: Could the historians not help this too? There have already been a number of national forms of this order in history, and one that essentially had the outlines of today's Europe was, for example, the Karolingian empire. How was his constitution? - Certainly different. But I wonder, How has this new Europe – the contradiction between a large supranational education and the national or even national interests – been overcome in general – been dealt with, and this is also the central question of this new Europe, as well as nationalism, which has then destroyed these structures? This is, I believe, a research topic that is just as important. That is why I ask the question of what our contemporary historians, our historians, our sociologists, our political scientists, our vernaculars have to bring into this discussion. Have you spoken to the lawyers who are now developing Maastricht II? This is a wealth of questions so that one can say that technology policy is only a part, research policy is much more comprehensive. It is both about basic research and research applied, about public and private research, and it is about the networking of the various research institutions, and communication in turn plays an essential role. Much could be said about the research report, the underdeveloped proportion of industrial research, the associated small number of jobs for academics in private enterprises or the work of female researchers we would like to promote in particular. I would, however, like to take this opportunity to express a special thanks to our divorced Minister. He has also set a number of important impulses in research policy, and it has been a great merit of Federal Minister Dr. Scholten that during this difficult time it has succeeded in disproportionately increasing the research budget and bringing us closer to the internationally necessary research approaches. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The Federal Minister has succeeded – and this is not as obvious as one might want to assume – in actually getting these billions of technology in the field of research. We have already discussed over billions that have never become real. But these research billions and these proceeds that have been achieved are available and will give substantial impetus to research in the near future. These are really crucial, lasting choices for the future, and we would like to thank you very much for that – combined with the best wishes for the personal future.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e9974	The next item is Mrs Gredler's speech. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e9996	Mr. Federal Minister! High house! We are discussing the 1996 Focus Report on Information Technology. This report is well structured. I only regret that in a report which has some scope, only 25 pages are devoted to this issue. This report is also no substitute for what was originally announced in Alpbach a few years ago, namely a government programme to coordinate national policies for the transition to the information society. It is good that the participations in EU projects, i.e. in 4. Framework programme, which has actually been very satisfactory. In the ESPRIT programme, I believe that 32 per cent of the submissions from Austria have received the award, which is quite a remarkable achievement. ==References== Overall, the overall framework programme is only 21 percent, but this corresponds to the EU average. So since we're beginners, I think you can say a lot of praise. What I am missing from this report is, however, the following: It is only the wish that copyrights should be given special attention to artists and authors in the age of electronic media. I would like to make detailed proposals from you, Mr Federal Minister, because they are the basis of their existence for authors and artists. This report mentions "knowledge-based economies" at the outset. The internationalisation and the resulting competition will lead you to develop a catalogue to improve effectiveness and efficiency at national level and to implement these measures. – I think it’s nice that you make these suggestions, but in fact I would have thought that your work was structured after that. How well does it actually work? Your place of business, when you always need occasions to show effectiveness and make an optimal policy? In this context, I would also like to mention that Mr Prinzhorn's request, which is not currently in the Chamber, is very attractive in our view. He has only one mistake: To give all research funding institutions into one hand would, I believe, not benefit but harm the effectiveness. It is more sensible to have at least two areas: the more technical and the more intellectual-scientific. However, Mr Minister, you say that yourself, would be desirable for more effectiveness. Now to the finances. R & D expenditure was 1.5 percent of GDP in 1995, 1.55% in 1994. So you fell down. In 1994 Felder and Campel set a range of at least 0.79 to 0.86 percent for R & D expenditure, i.e. 18 to 20 billion schilling. In fact, Mr Federal Minister, we have 14.7 billion schilling, which actually means a deficit of 4 billion schilling a year. As part of the CA sale, you have said that you now receive some billion additional for R & D expenditure. This one billion corresponds to a quarter of the resources that are actually needed to increase. So it's far from what scientists and researchers would call a "golden shower," but it's actually just a quarter of what you should do. The research rate should increase to 2.1 percent of GDP by 2005, with the share of the economy being at least 55 percent, i.e. from the commercial economy itself. We're far away. We are currently 45 percent of the economy's participation in these research promotions. Now to the staff. In the United States, R & D spending is of a total of 1 000 people in employment. In fact, we would like to see a comparable framework in Austria. In fact, in Austria, the framework is 2.5 people per 1 000 persons in employment, with 5.9 in Germany. So I think we still have a long way to go. To cover the patent imports through patent exports: In Austria, it will only be 30 percent, i.e. 30 percent of patent imports are covered by patent exports. In the Netherlands it is 50, in Belgium 90 percent. I have never noticed that the Belgians are particularly inventive, but they seem to do better than we do. It would not be unrealistic for Öhler to have a public funding schilling three private R & D schillings. 1 to 3, Mr Federal Minister, this is really a little bit. On the request of Mr Lucisch and Mr Niederweiser: I was wrong in the committee when I said that this request actually represents a certain distrust towards the Federal Minister. Now I understand: The Federal Minister should be exchanged, and that is why you wanted to give the next Federal Minister a little more direction on his policy, namely to draw up lines of action for an efficient distribution and to provide action guidelines. I took part in the press conference of the Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs of the 19th century. In December 1996, five action guidelines were drawn up. If you mention this in the January part of your motion for a resolution, it means that you are either not familiar with or do not even trust the content of your Federal Minister's press conference. Actually, a hard lot for a Federal Minister. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: No, that's not true! Further development is within, further development of research lines!]] Furthermore, you have stimulated support from researchers inside. 12 percent of applications are submitted by researchers. We also have a long way to go. Perhaps, as far as the new Federal Government is concerned, the confidence of women could be met in such a way as to provide for the Federal Minister for Trade and not simply a substitute. It would be quite appealing to have, for example, a Federal Minister for Finance. So perhaps Mr. Federal Minister Klima could get to know a little bit of the specialist women who could be included in his cabinet. On the request of Mr Petrovic: I find the suggestion that there should be a research and teaching institution in Austria which is trying to get rid of animal experiments. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Everyone should!]] I think it is commendable that the focus in this field should be at the University of Graz. There are 12,000 replacement methods for animal testing in the world. In Austria we "consumer" about 240 000 animals each year, of which 30 000 have to die for experiments. The EU Cosmetics Directive is about the fact that no more experimental animals will be used in the cosmetics sector from 1998 onwards. If we continue this trend and if Graz University makes replacement methods relevant to other scientists as a focus, I think that this is progress and certainly not a step back. We will allow this request by Mrs Petrovic to be accepted. Finally, I would like to mention our motion for a resolution. We Liberals also want to ensure greater efficiency by providing tax advantages for small and medium-sized enterprises when they go to research. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] Mr Federal Minister, if I am She's allowed to bother a little bit: On the 1995 research funding, there is a report on the ongoing projects which, although granted before 1995, have not been completed. For example, one issue says: Contract: March 1987, project conclusion: March 1990, an issue of 2.3 million Schilling – "Building in National Park Regions". There's no result so far. And there are a number of values, up to Wienerberger Baustoffindustrie AG, which reached a contract in 1988, promised the project conclusion for 1992 and has already received 756 000 S. I think Wienerberger Baustoffindustrie AG is not very bad. Mr Federal Minister – if I may disturb you again –: Could you ensure that these funds, which were not actually used in conformity with the contract, return to Austrian research? – I thank you for your attention, even if it was only partially present.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e10063	The next speaker was Mr. Dr. Lukesch. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e10084	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I will not, like Mr Krüger, be tempted to take the 1996 research report on the occasion of a large-scale settlement with the Schools era in its capacity as Minister of Science and Research, but not because this was a relatively short term or because an assessment would not be available, but because I believe that the topic of research and research report is far too important for us in Parliament than that it is exhausted only in personnelia and discussions on personnel. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] You, Mr Krüger, as chairman of the Scientific Committee today, did not even mention the word "research policy" in your opinion on the research report chapter and the other topics dealt with in this subcommittee. I've listened to you very carefully: You haven't even talked about research policy! [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: The position of the Minister is probably more important!]] I say it again: Research policy is too important to leave it to the FPÖ staff discussions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The research report clearly states that the future of the Austrian economy, the Austrian society in international competition, is in the challenges of the knowledge-based society. We have to win this competition. We need our economy, we need to make our research sites more research intensive and fit. Anything else would be a backward scenario. We will not be able to compete, for example, for wage cost competition with the Second World or to reduce our environmental standards to those of those countries. We must be successful in research policy! And I think there are good signs that the way through the Federal Government is going in this direction. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Niederwieser.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In the knowledge of the importance of research and technology policy, I insisted that this research report be dealt with in a subcommittee, over several meetings. What did I want to do with it? Firstly, the opportunity should be given to deal very thoroughly with the situation of research in Austria, in particular with the state of information technology in Austria, but secondly, these meetings of the Subcommittee should also serve to strengthen the relevant ministers in order to implement additional funding from the Minister of Finance for research and technology. And I believe that Parliament, too, has been successful in handling this research report. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Of course, the diagnosis – as Mrs. Gredler is right – which the research report represents in relation to the overall research rate of Austria is quite sobering. Although research expenditure has increased, public expenditure has also increased, but the research coefficient, the research intensity is still 1.5 percent – and that is too little. Federal Minister! In this discussion, they always argue with the specificities of the Austrian economic structure, so the private research share would be too small. We have a small and medium-sized structure. We do not have the major research centres of the international, transnational societies here in Austria. We thank God for not very intensive war equipment research, which plays a greater role in other countries. However, I believe that we must recognize and accept the challenge of stimulating private research and the interaction between public research and private research in this area. On the basis of these subcommittee meetings, we have achieved a lot of results, with all modesty. We have achieved that a first research billion was committed in the government clause before Christmas. We have achieved that two additional billions will be made available for 1998 and 1999 from the proceeds of privatisation in Austria. And we have adopted a joint motion for a resolution which, Mrs Gredler, ensures the further development of the relevant guidelines, lines of action for the use of these funds in a sufficiently concentrated and efficient manner. I am glad that the importance of research has not only been recognized and stressed here in Parliament, but has also been taken up by the government. I believe that this is a respectable result that we have achieved through Parliament's work. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Niederwieser.]] The research report deals in particular with the state of Austrian information technology. For me, I can say that the collection of the focus of information technology institutes and research institutes shows quite a respectable Austrian offer. And I believe that in the case of a wise use of the additional resources now available, the effects of these research billions could be multiplied in the sense of Mrs Gredler in relation to 1 to 3 – of course also in connection with European research cooperation. I mention, for example, a European Center for Parallel Computing – as Austria could well contribute to its capacity – that I mention the European Software Institute – as we would have a new task for Seibersdorf, for example, of building up an appropriate Austrian structure with European funds – I would mention the ion microscope system, an Austrian invention that represents a new technology for the production of microchips, which is becoming more and more efficient, ever smaller, minimized. In this area, one could give impetus, at the interface between basic research and applied research, in particular in the problem of the implementation of existing research results in the markets. These are small things. We should not, however, be paralysed by the efforts of a large European research institution. Especially for the information technology sector, for basic research, the place would be here for an Austrian, for a European competence centre – I particularly mention EUROCRYST as a Tyrolean – since we should be persistent accordingly. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Today, the era of the Minister of Science Dr. Scholten is also ending. His policy was characterized by a number of fractions between the department and the universities. However, it was also very challenging to deal with reforms during its time, such as the UOG 1993. It was also a stabilisation programme in the field of universities to be implemented. However, there have also been many factual discussions between the coalition partners – I would like to mention this and note it positively. As a very positive example, I mention the University Study Act. But one thing has become quite clear: A successful leadership of the science and research unit requires the full operational capacity and insider knowledge of the official in order to be able to implement reforms quickly and purposefully in this future area. This latte should be known to the new Minister of Science, on this latte the ÖVP will also measure him.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e10162	The next speaker was Mrs Petrovic. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e10183	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The agenda is the research report, my request for the abolition of animal testing at the University of Graz and a request for the collection of research institutes for debate. In view of the fact that a change is about to take place at the head of the department, it seems appropriate to talk in principle about the area which Federal Minister Scholten has managed. I think that this Federal Minister has deserved a total consideration of his office, particularly in connection with the expectations and wishes we have at this place of business for the future. It is probably out of question that: Federal Minister Scholten focused his attention on the area, which he was personally closest to, the numerous and really great agendas of the House in the field of art, and he will probably also be attesting to his critics that he has always demonstrated backbones with regard to party taking for the artists, the cultural creators in this country, and that his attitude towards tolerance, openness and, above all, freedom of art was undisputed. He has shown this attitude even if it was not easy – and this is often not easy in Austria. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I very much hope that in this area, which is exposed to very, very strong animosity in Austria – the freedom of art and culture is not a matter of course – and on which there is always, above all, very strong party political influence and an assessment of what is beautiful and not so beautiful in art, the line that Federal Minister Scholten has always shown, namely, a line of openness and tolerance, continues to be practised. What I do not accept and what I believe is also a big mistake is that the area of art is now being taken out of this, admittedly too large and not really understandablely compiled place and is moving to the Federal Chancellery. I do not think that art and culture can be an annex in the truly extensive field of the new chancellor, and I am very afraid that it suffers there from the fate that the traffic has taken in the giant resort for science, transport and art. For this, art and culture are much too bad in Austria. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Federal Minister! As far as science and research is concerned, it is remarkable that research has first come out of the name of your department. They have repeatedly said in the context of the savings package on our behalf, it is not that bad, and the universities are already doing so, but one thing is clear: Under their leadership, the universities have become defensive, and the students in particular have been caught up by this disastrous schmarotzer debate, which had already been used in the area of refugees, the unemployed, the emergency workers. This is a bad development, Minister of State! I think you could have done more to keep universities from such a defensive and withdrawal campaign and to come into a long-awaited scientific policy, high-school offensive. With regard to research policy – in so far as I would like to address my request very briefly – it is of course true that we need to invest much more in the field of research as a whole, but also not somewhere. We know that there is close-to-economy research in which extremely powerful lobbies are very, very interested. It is also not so bad that the economy conducts research and that there is cooperation between universities and businesses, even a financing from the economy into the scientific field. But it would be the State's task to promote the search for new ways, to create incentives that do not have any commercial interest, so consciously carry out research on social and environmental risks of new technologies, including new ways of research, such as in connection with animal experiments. We need to get out of this cruel, brutal method of research that is harmful to people, and we also need specialization among Austrian universities. It is a public task to make this possible, favour and put pressure on us. This pressure does not come from the economy. Now the very last area of the giant resort, which it was, for science, transport and art. This was certainly the area that should be more concerned, particularly with its social and environmental impact. All in all, it was no wonder to us that this area was completely lost. It is not possible for a person to spread his interests, his commitment, perhaps even his passion evenly across all these areas and to be equally competent. I think that not only the Greens have expected this government reform to be taken as an opportunity, in particular, to separate the fields of science, research and transport. – Instead, as has been said, there is a breakdown of those areas that in themselves fit quite well into the field of science, namely the field of art. Art and science, both areas need openness, freedom, tolerance, a positive and promoting climate, so this was quite a useful summary. For those two areas that stay together now, I don't see it that way. I assume, Minister of State Dr. Scholten, that this is probably one of the reasons for this. Your decision is that you yourself have also recognized that in the way it was compiled, this place did not develop into a future resort, but in many areas has become a place of retreat, or simply was no longer present politically. I understand and respect your decision, Minister of State. But I think that your successor will also have to deal very intensively with the problem of one of my opinion so unsustainable resorts. I hope that you will give him your experience and that we may soon come to a more meaningful line of work than is now the case. I should like to congratulate you personally, Mr Federal Minister, on behalf of the whole Green Group, on whatever your personal plans are.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e10270	The next speaker is Mr Stippel. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e10292	Mr President. Federal Minister! My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Let me start with words of thanks. I would like to thank you, Minister of State Dr. Scholten, for your tireless commitment to your place of business. The fact that the opposition parties see this differently is understandable. But only the fact that there will be some more research billions in the future will prove your commitment and will also lead – which has been complained or demanded several times – to the fact that the research rate in Austria will be significantly increased, and I must say that the share of public resources in R & D expenditure is significant. But it has already been rightly complained that the share of the private sector in Austria is justifiable. I would also like to thank you personally, however, for having been able to work with you for a long time as a scientific speaker in my group. Unfortunately, I had to give up this function as a health condition some time ago. It was, I think, a very good cooperation. I can also personally wish you all the right things for your future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen! I do not want to go further on what honourable Member Krüger has given of himself. In fact, in his contribution to the debate, the word "research report" has never been the word – but it is not my case to continue to judge it. The research report focuses on information technologies. Because of the time available to me – and I would also like to say a few other basic things – I cannot go into detail here. I would just like to say the following: If, for example, you look around the Silicon Valley in California, it is clear that in Austria, as far as research and information technologies are concerned, we can have an excellent reputation for the fact that many Austrian researchers, including university professors, are well-known, even there, in the Mecca of information technologies. In this respect, Austria has an excellent reputation worldwide. However, I would like to say a few basic things. Public and industrial investment in research and teaching, or in technologies, is becoming increasingly important as a result of increasingly scientific knowledge-based economies. I'm not saying anything new about that. National economic and technology policies must take particular account of the international dimension in this area. At the same time, the structure of the scientific system has become much more complex, for example today it includes policy-consulting institutions, research laboratories at company level as well as national and supranational large-scale research institutions. The expansion of the scientific community also raises new questions, such as the role of stakeholders, the division of work to be changed, the future financial allocation of resources within the framework of tight budgetary possibilities and so on. The need to carry out public work for the science complex is considered particularly important, because the described development is accompanied by increasing scepticism in the population; unfortunately, this is the case. However, public attitudes have a major impact on political will-building, particularly in the financing of the scientific system. However, the most important keyword in future national science and research policy is the internationalisation of the scientific system and its implications. On the one hand, the new developments often enable and demand financing cooperation, on the other hand, increasing competition between national institutions. The international cooperation of research institutions will continue to be forced by information and communication technologies, while at the same time raising new issues such as data security, intellectual property protection and so on. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Therefore, the Chapter on Education, Science and Research is a priority in the Austrian Government’s Convention on Labour. We have analysed the situation, we are hopeful that by providing additional budgetary resources – as I have already said – the research rate will increase and that, as regards research and development in Austria, we will be going into a good future. We will be happy to give this report of research to social democrats.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e10359	Members of the European Parliament are now speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Schöggl. – Ladies and gentlemen, please. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e10380	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Scholten, you can follow this debate very relaxed and easy today, the suitcases are packed. However, I believe that despite everything, there is a lot to be said about this research report. At the beginning, I would like to draw the attention of my colleague Mr Niederwieser, who has now remained very lonely in his sector, to the following: They said that research and education were the highest capital. I totally agree with you. But I just wonder why we are dealing with this capital in our country a little bit lightly – not to say: a little sloppy. I think there's a lot to do. I quote from this report a sentence of page 5: "As a result of increased internationalisation, competition between national science systems could have a positive effect by allowing those responsible for national science systems to develop and implement measures to improve effectiveness and efficiency at national level." Mr. Minister! I don't think you or Their successors are hindered by someone to see themselves, to do something better. I think your successor should take the opportunity and really contribute to improving the situation of research and development in this country. In the field of research funding, the report complains of the lower increases in the share of the economy's financing, compared to that of the public sector. – There are very simple reasons for this. One reason is the low tax incentives for smaller enterprises, research and development. The second reason is the departure of innovative businesses abroad – we have seen this at Conti – and thus also a withdrawal of the research and development rate. The former national authorities have closed their laboratories to a large extent, at least as far as basic research is concerned. Another reason is the lack of capital of companies that are simply unable to afford expensive research facilities. Companies are therefore forced to buy technology from second-hand countries. This passive takeover strategy is also described in the technology policy concept, as presented in this draft, as little forward-looking and promising and is more likely to be rejected. In this concept – I would like to quote a sentence from it to show that from the choice of words and from what is inside it you actually need an interpreter to understand it – for example: "If we look at the institutional responsibilities of technology policy, we can see a picture that is characterized by the tension between fragmentation and over-coordination in the simultaneous financial and human sub-dosing of the technology agendas." If one reads the sentence a few times, one comes to realize that this cryptic statement was actually somehow understood, but one should clearly say where fragmented, where overcoordinated and where human underducated. You should call things by name and not avoid them in any culprits. On the topic of technology billions. I have already said this in committee: We have almost lost the overview. It was first announced a technology billion, then a second, then two additional. We should have already reached four, five, six or eight billions of technology, if we count all the announced billions of technology. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: You didn't understand!]] - Oh, yeah, very good. You have thanked God for "enlightening" us in the Committee, saying that there is actually no additional money. One billion was announced, and every year there is another – if there is really one. Of these additional billions, which Minister Farnleitner has also announced, there is not much to see. Minister! You leave your successor a wealth of problems: The Studiengesetz is to be re-designed, the university autonomy is to be expanded, interest-related salary rights in the university area would be built up, the high school area must be further expanded. The contract scheme has a disastrous impact on the universities and leads to an effective reduction of the university budgets by about 15 percent. The merger of Arsenal and Seibersdorf is discussed. So there is a wealth to do. As your successor, the current Minister of the Interior is colported. I would like to say the following: If the current Minister of the Interior, as an ideological minister of science, intends to replace the objectivity of science with subjective, tendent projects, he should want to replace science with ideology with cooperative and technology, then he has to expect bitter resistance from us liberals. Minister Scholten! But I wish you all the best for your further life course! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e10420	Mrs Brinek is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e10441	Federal Minister! High house! Let me come back to the research report. I know the debate is a little more moving today. I just want to point out the consequences that come to us. Dr. Stippel has already mentioned the priority for education, science and research mentioned in the Coalition Convention. The research report follows by quoting the OECD report. – I quote from it: In order to ensure economic growth, enlargement and restructuring of employment opportunities, maintain quality of life and a humane environment, continued public and private investment in research, including increased education at university level and industrial investment, technology and technological training are necessary. - So far, so good. What are the problems mentioned in the research report itself? . At present, we have to assume that research investment and research results do not have high acceptance in the population, because the associated gain in quality of life, quality of work and environmental quality is not made visible. This means that more effort is needed by the researchers, the researchers, the media, the transporters to make this profit visible. Another problem arises from the report, namely the relative disinterest of young people in research and technology. Ladies and gentlemen! The reason for this is, in my opinion, much earlier, that pupils are afraid of getting out of science-technical subjects. Yes, how should curiosity and tension arise with regard to these questions if the interest turns very early elsewhere? The consequences follow on the foot. I mean, as long as the number of students inside increases in psychology, sociology, theater sciences, art history and architecture, unemployment opportunities are also rising and at the same time labour market opportunities are falling. Another problem: I wish more women in technical, scientific fields. I would like to thank the first authors of the motion for a resolution, Mr Lucisch and Mr Deweiser, for including this aspect in the resolution. I think that's an important point. We should only be careful whether it is being forced in the sense of the resolution. I would like to sum up the essential points mentioned in the resolution. What do we need? – Rapid improvement of the even more rapid obsolete infrastructure of universities and research institutions, expansion of data networks – I remember: pledged by climate and Vrannitzky in Alpbach – thirdly: Decisions on major research institutions, fourthly: national monitoring programmes to enable Austria to reach international programmes, fifthly: The identification and promotion of those niches, where Austria has an industrial opportunity – Professor Lucisch cited them for example – and sixthly, the cost of telecommunications is reduced. To illustrate how far women have to enter this sphere, I would like to point to terrifying numbers in the selection of studies, terrifying figures in the field of civil engineering, spatial planning, mechanical engineering, electronics, technical sciences: Often it is not even a tenth of the potential that students put towards male colleagues. It is similar in the second studies. This is the point which also has labour market consequences. The way in which a good job can be found can be achieved through a postgraduate course of training. It's even worse for girls and women. Ladies and gentlemen! As far as the research report is concerned, let me say: It is, of course, the coalition partner in a government transformation that does not intend to transform the government according to its own ideas. I think of one of the candidates: Social work, gas, oil, AK, police, many question marks. However, I do not think anything about universities, education, youth, research, technology, organizational talent. Finally, I would like to express some of the concerns of the universities – since this personal debate is clear – that these concerns have also been directly and directly articulated by telephone: In the context of government reform – this is how these concerns are formed – it has been about the important claims to set out the important fields: Finance, social affairs, health – and then, somehow, behind, came science with traffic, without traffic, with art, without art. A colleague at the university meant that he remembered Saint Germain in 1918. That's what it said: Europe is well divided. "The rest is Austria." – In an analogy to this: The fields of government are well divided. The rest is science. I do not want it to be said in future: The rest is science. I would like to see the interest articulated in the media also implemented in a competent post-employment system that it is also given as a personal signal to young people. I would also like to express this concern on behalf of my colleagues from the universities. I would like on my own behalf, despite all the differing views on so many university policy issues, to give every good wish to the outgoing minister. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e10512	The next speaker is Mr Dr Kier. – Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e10533	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! In my contribution to the debate, I would like to focus on the issue of technology promotion, and I should first like to make a motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] This motion for a resolution, to which my colleague Mr Gredler has already referred, contrasts very strongly with the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Lukesch, Mr Niederweiser, for a very simple reason: On the content of the matter, I agree that he has been unanimously approved in committee. But if you analyze it in depth, you see, there is actually something stuck, which belongs to the original area of responsibility of the addressed ministers. If we consider this from a time-limit, so to speak, according to the Committee, it is noted that there should be something given to the ministers, which, in my opinion, they must indeed have done. In my opinion, there are doubts: If this is now a request from oppositional Members, who may feel that it is good to confirm this task by a plenary decision, in a healthy and instinctive distrust of members of the Federal Government, I say, okay. However, if these are colleagues from the government parties, I am not so sure what they really wanted. [[Abg. May. Peter: Hop!]] Would you like to hope your own minister! or crossed out, in the sense of "two-colored teaching", which does not quite trust the Minister of the other side, so to speak, to lay a track? We believe that if we are already taking steps, we should take a very consistent step and consider: There are research areas that are close to the foundation and scientific in the narrower sense, and there are research areas that are close to economic and application-oriented in the wider sense. There we have discovered a need for reform, or a possibility, as we could quickly reduce some double-tracks and perhaps also the "two-colour teaching" in the various bodies, by severing technology promotion – whether the BÜRGES means FFF, ITF or whatever – from a single source and ultimately holding it in the responsibilities of a minister, which should not prevent it from coordinating with the various interests. I do not want to be misunderstood, but at ministerial level the responsibility of a minister seemed sufficient to me. I understand that this may not sound pleasing to you, because it may irritate the "twine teaching". It must also be feared that if this is the Minister of Finance, he may not be making any money, and if it is the Minister of Economic Affairs, he may only be promoting more pencils at all, and if it is the Minister of Science, he may fall into the Academy of Sciences. So, of course, there are always possibilities for mistakes, but that the number of mistakes decreases when more people are switched on at ministerial level, I rule out that. There is a risk that the errors will double or possibly even quadrirate. I also have the confidence in the staff of such an institution, because usually it is not the chiefs of the department who do not have the highest personal and personal ability to want to be serious, so that they can only work with clear guidelines and with clear ministerial responsibility as a protection. In this respect, I would ask you to consider whether this motion for a resolution could not be as majority as Mr Lukesch and Mr Niederweisser's motion for a resolution, to whom we, as a Member of an opposition party, are pleased, because he is a member of the government. The fact that this is done at the initiative of colleagues from the government parties may be a indication of a new bridge between government groups and opposition. But that's not what it's meant to be. In this sense, I am really sorry that Mr. Federal Minister Dr. Scholten, who, because of his high understanding of art, always had much left for such subtle decoration, now leaves his office. This fineness of the application Lukesch, Niederwieser, who, I believe, was formulated at a time when one could still expect the remaining of Federal Minister Scholten to read this fineness of the language – I would ask you to really read it at home again in peace – this sentence needs to be read repeatedly, for he has Thomas Mannsche dimensions. – In this sense, it may now be an indirect farewell to the Federal Minister that he leaves the house with literature in the luggage. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e10607	At the beginning of his speech, Member Dr Kier presented a motion for a resolution which was supported in accordance with the rules of procedure and included in the deliberations. As the next speaker, Mrs Dr Karlsson spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e10631	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! I do not want to expand the appreciation for Rudolf Scholten and the thanks for his work here too much, that is what we are private. But I just want to have said it. It would now be very appealing to speculate, because of the speeches, which should be a minister of science, for example, as requested by university professor Lukesch, to have "insider knowledge": Should that be a university professor? Does anyone have to be? I would just like to point out that the first minister in this office was not a professor and, in her resignation, after she had set up the department – I am speaking of Mrs Firnberg – had the appreciation of all the political groups. – So pretending to be a good minister or a good minister in university business seems to me to be an exaggeration. It would also be tempting to have this kind of unexplained excitement about the resolution tabled by the Dutchman to speculate Luke. There are precisely some reports on the motions for resolutions of this kind, for example on the foreign policy report. I am inexplicable about why such a kind of rumming has developed today. I am in favour of this motion for a resolution, and I am also very pleased that the special promotion of women and women researchers in the technical field has been added. However, I regret that the second aspect, which seems particularly important to me, has not been included in technology policy and the dissemination of results from research in this area, namely, how far socio-political changes, to what extent structural changes are created by these technologies. Social acceptance and scepticism is not only a question of public relations, but also of what technological research results and developments we can accept. For it is as if everything that can be done in natural sciences is possible and researchable, that is also socially desirable, that this is further developed, that is not to say. I am thinking of nuclear energy and its further commercial use, which was rejected in Austria in the course of the referendum. There is then a political, a social dimension. Especially Minister Scholten has had a very fine sensory for those things – in which he can be proud, ideology is not a false word – precisely for that dimension of this socio-political value of research. That is why it would have been very good if we could have brought this aspect into this resolution. But this has not succeeded. Finally, I would just like to point out that this aspect is very well anchored in the EU's Fifth Framework Programme, and that it is very good for Austria to pay more attention to this aspect and to create a researcher to make it a future-promoting aspect of Austrian research. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e10679	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Salzl. You have announced a four-minute voluntary limit on speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e10701	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! For years there has been a very controversial discussion on animal testing issues with very different views. They range from one extreme, namely that everything that benefits man is allowed, to the other extreme, by focusing only more on the animal, regardless of the impact on our society. This discussion has undoubtedly been strengthened and updated by the popular desire for animal protection, which has been very successful and with which the 460 000 signatory has initiated a rethinking process, which gives the animal a higher priority in our society and will also be granted in the future. By showing problems particularly in the animal transport sector, in the management of mass animals and by showing failures and problems in the protection of species, decisions on the improvement of animal welfare in general and the testing of animals in particular should finally be made. Ladies and gentlemen! There are currently three major levels of decision-making in our society with regard to animal testing: firstly, economic-political, second, scientific and thirdly, the ethical-moral level, which unfortunately is often too short in our society. Just as these three levels are similar to that, there are also three main reasons why animal experiments at all need to be replaced by alternative methods, yes, namely economic-political reasons, because animal experiments are often too expensive and personalised and politically increasingly difficult to implement. Secondly, there are scientific reasons for this, because animal testing is not always targeted and the results of animal testing are not always satisfactory. We therefore need better and finer methods of measurement. Finally, I cite ethical and moral reasons which unfortunately, as I have already said, are not observed enough and sacrificed to economics. Ladies and gentlemen! Replacement and supplemental methods for animal testing are desirable first and secondly absolutely necessary, and they are also increasingly loud and vehemently demanded by a broad public and on the other hand also by doctors and scientists. We will not be able to close these demands in the future either. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The aim must be to replace as many animal experiments as possible as possible by alternative methods and, if possible, to eliminate these animal experiments. As I said, The aim must be one: away from the animal experiments! The way to this However, the objective cannot be as requested by Mrs Petrovic in her motion for a resolution: The Federal Minister for Science and Research is to present a concept for the conversion of all animal experimental research institutions from the Karl-Franzens-Universität Graz to non-animal alternative research methods. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is one of the demands which cannot be implemented at this time. Dean Kenner, who, by the way, was very outraged that he had to stand for such an unthinked request, said literally: A total abandonment of animal testing is not yet possible. In many areas, however, replacement methods can already be used. Nor can the Federal Minister responsible, but only the institutes themselves, ladies and gentlemen, see how far a ban on animal testing or the conversion to alternative methods is possible, without a weakening of the Karl-Franzens-Universität Graz and without some research institutions possibly having to be outsourced to other universities. The right way, therefore, to reduce the number of animal experiments and possibly even eliminate them in the longer term can only be: to promote such replacement methods, to recognise animal-free methods, also internationally and with regard to liability issues, to abolish unnecessary multi-tests and, fourthly, to coordinate these experiments and replacement methods across the EU. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We liberals confess to a comprehensive animal protection and to a reduction in the number of animal experiments – to the abolition, if this is scientifically and technically possible or reasonable. We liberals, however, cannot give our consent to this thoughtless request.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e10771	The next speaker is Mr Leiner. - Please. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e10792	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, there was no need to add any more to Mr Salzl's statement, but I would nevertheless like to comment on Mr Petrovic's request. I have actually believed first that she only wanted a concept to be developed, but she herself has come out here today and now said that she has put forward the request to abolish animal testing. That is very absoluteistic! My previous speaker pointed out that the University of Graz was vehemently opposed to being included here. I also spoke to Dr. Kenner, also with Professor Tritthart, with whom I cooperate, about this: He completely rejects this claim. Of course, in view of our understanding and the awe of the living being, all of us – and this has also been mentioned by my previous speaker – are convinced that alternative research methods should be promoted. It is important to minimise the number of animal experiments in all areas, particularly in the economy. There are already genetically produced cell cultures in which they can be replaced. There are already computer methods that replace mice, and for cosmetics there are already artificial human skin models in which toxicology, i.e. toxicity, can be tested; Professor Reinhard designed this. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] I am referring to scientific progress! That is why I also welcome the effort of science towards non-animal research. But I do not think that this research can be done at a faculty. The methods are diverse, overarching and interdisciplinary. I therefore very much welcome the Ministry's desire to promote projects which, in turn, promote these interdisciplinary and cross-disciplinary research results. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! At present, animal experiments are essential in some scientific disciplines, especially in medicine. And that's where I see a great danger to the excruciating animal testers. We need animal tests in immunology. Imagine: All tests of the vaccine against AIDS are carried out via primate. Should you do this to people? The surgery technique, the transplant surgery: Should we try this in human beings? Whether man is a "supply animal"? In the bronchial system, that is, in the lung, the lung cells are unimitable, they are neither genetic nor cell cultures can be produced. The whole asthma research still has to be carried out on animals. Many tests of medication should be carried out on animals. It often takes a year or more until such permits are obtained. The danger is that, while we guarantee the safety of animals by increasing conditions, we forget the human victims who now have to die. In America, the testing of a hearty medicine, the beta blocker, Mrs. Colleague – but the dentists may not know it so much – was prevented by the animal protectors for six years. The consequences of this delay for health, for life, have been examined. Hundreds of thousands of people died because this new drug was not available. Hundreds of thousands of people have survived, Mrs. Colleague! Here's the animal, there's man. Science is worthless, the impact on society is not. This discussion on animal testing often offers a feeding ground that, in principle, calls into question progress. To ban the animal attempt currently from medical research is frontal animal-friendly, but in the real impact it is against human beings. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The dignity of the inorganic and organic creature is always to be guaranteed for us, but it is important to respect a value that is set out to us. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e10868	Mr Ing. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Nut trees. - Please, honourable Member! Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e10889	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The research report has made it clear that the intensification of research, the increase in the research rate, the simplification of applications and procedures and the harmonisation of technology and research funding, which we repeatedly call for, are essential to halt the rapid loss of competition in the Austrian economy. We need to maintain businesses and research centres through more activity in the country. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] "With a share of research expenditure of 1.48 percent last year, our country is threatened to say goodbye to the European League," that is the findings of the research report. However, the research report also shows other almost shamed claims written down. For example, appropriate priorities are required and identified: Not all measures cost money, some require only clear conception and a determined strategy. The Ministry has certainly not fulfilled this task. Successful research funding must therefore facilitate the start-up to research and development, support the growth of these enterprises to the extent that continuous research and development enable, or encourage research companies already researching to have greater research dynamics, or bring larger firms to carry out risky large-scale research projects. That is why we have tabled a motion for a resolution on this subject. An increase in the expenditure of Austria for research and development in relation to GDP and OECD average or the creation of tax incentives for entrepreneurs to improve the research and development orientation of entrepreneurs was acceptable to all members of the Committee. The proposed introduction of a Research and Development Foundation is also intended to ensure that only a single partner for the economy is needed as a promoter in order to minimise the effort for promoters in order to make better use of the funding and to avoid over- or under-covering of research projects, to use scientific research and to link it more efficiently with the economy, or to improve the transfer of technology to small and medium-sized enterprises. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Also, the demand to complement basic scientific research and operational technology support for product maturity with a re-establishing promotion of market research and market introduction makes sense when you know how many Austrian developments from companies do not find the way to the market. Ladies and gentlemen! The research report's proposals are not sufficient to improve the position, so it is important to start an initiative in Austria, comparable to that of the Bavarian government, which has a 4 percent research rate to catch up with. In the subcommittee, however, the Minister referred to the question of how much resources would be needed to achieve this quota as they could not be calculated. I am not of this opinion, and if I have a goal and a strategy, I can also calculate at least the expenses necessary for that. The Ministry of Science obviously does not even know the dramaticly low level of staff of Austrian researchers, as Bernhard Felder described in his report. Only Spain, Greece and Portugal are even worse – and this is due to the fact that Austria itself has the highest training rate of GDP in Europe. Minister! They found in the subcommittee that the research rate in national firms was higher than in the private sector, and also pointed out the honourable Member's tipple. That is true, but the interpretation of this fact differs. We believe that the lower research rate in the private sector results from the inconsistency of the individual funding possibilities, from the confusion of competence and from the complicated application and monitoring process and not from the slowness of the private sector. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] As always, Mr Federal Minister, I wish you a conflict-free future. A final word on the new Minister for Science: In all cases of realism, if the Austrian economy does not want to give up the struggle for the future before the start, it also needs a clear conception and a determined strategy in research. When I look at the irritations in the interior, I very much doubt that the future Minister of Science will be able to lead Austria out of this research descent zone. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e10970	The next item is the speech by Mr Mag. Posch. – Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e10992	Minister! High house! I would just like to deal with a few significant key elements of the research report. It has already been said that in 1995 about 1.5% of the gross domestic product for research and experimental development was spent in Austria. In absolute terms, this means a threefold increase in the research budget compared with 1981, with the public hand on the one hand and the economy on the other hand contributing 50 percent to this sum. However, it is interesting how the contributions from the economy on the one hand and the public sector on the other have changed in recent years. Since 1989, public finance has increased by more than 72 percent, while expenditure on the economy has only increased by 41.5 percent over the same period. That is to say, there has been a nationalization of research funding, which is partly related to the lack of large groups of research departments in Austria compared to other countries. The accession to the EU has also led to major changes in the field of support and research. The centre of EU research policy is currently the 4th. Framework programme for research and technology, which runs from 1994 to 1998 and is worth over ECU 13 billion. We were able to do this in the course of this 4th. Framework programmes achieve considerable success. Austria has largely recovered its contributions to the framework programme. ==References== A total of 13,436 project applications in the first round of calls for proposals across the EU, of which 1,410 with Austrian participation. Of these 1,410 submitted Austrian projects, 292 were approved, and in some areas the Austrian success rate was significantly high, especially in the future-looking field of information technology. In this first round of calls for tenders, 44 billion schillings were distributed. About 700 million schilling or 1.7 percent of these 44 billion schilling went to Austria. How important this 4. The EU's framework programme is to document the figures alone. ECU 1.4 billion was allocated for information and communication technologies, ECU 1.9 billion for industrial technologies, ECU 1 billion for the environment, ECU 1.5 billion for life sciences and technologies, ECU 1 billion for nonnuclear energy, ECU 240 million for transport and ECU 138 million for socio-economic research. – So very remarkable sums. Nevertheless, it will also be necessary in the future to use national research and development funding as well. In particular, the fund for the promotion of scientific research is a very useful and useful internal Austrian institution. In 1995, he received a federal grant of 730 million Schilling, and the research fund for the industrial economy, which is a little lower, still had 570 million Schilling in federal grants in 1995. – So much for research. Finally, Mr Minister, I would also like to thank you for your excellent work in the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Science, especially for your efforts in the area of integration. I think that the irreversible outcome will be timely. I also thank you for your efforts in the course of the UOG and the University Study Act, for your efforts to defend art and its freedom, and above all for your often courageous words against the ruling unspirit.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e11034	Mr Amon has now been reported on the floor. Please, honourable Member. You have announced a voluntary time limit of 6 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e11055	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Perhaps I should like to start by briefly commenting on Mr Kier's comments, which have been relatively complicated here, so I would like to say, in terms of our motion for a resolution, the resolution tabled by the representatives of the government. Simply presented – if you allow me to do so, even if we are in a scientific debate –: What is the point of this motion for a resolution? . This motion for a resolution is about strengthening the back of the Minister for Science, whatever his name is. Of course, you do not mind joining and supporting this motion for a resolution. We therefore consider the field of science, research and new technology to be particularly important, because, of course, jobs are created in this context, new, high-quality, qualified jobs. We will certainly need these jobs in the next few years, because if we think of the stop in public service, for example, then we must be clear that for young academics who come from universities, we will need this professional offer. So far, we had a share of around 1.5 percent of gross domestic product in the field of research and were therefore below the EU average. But with the 3 billion, which are now guaranteed by the Federal Government by 1998, we are getting across the European section, and this makes sense in the context I mentioned earlier. Where we certainly need to think of a lot more, the area of stimulating larger companies is to invest more in research. Due to the medium-sized structure of our economy, we have a share of 47 percent of research in international research. Of course, comparison is not on average, which is 55 percent. I think that by means of appropriate measures by the Federal Government there is a lot possible. I also think that we need to think more strongly about bringing women into the technical field of science, because statistics speak a relatively clear language here. If one looks at the fact that there are only three students in the studies of mechanical engineering or only five students in the field of electrical engineering – in comparison there are 278 or 276 boys – then one must say that there is a large column of course. I therefore believe that, particularly for studies in which there is, so to speak, a job offer available after graduation, i.e. technical studies, women should be more addressed. We are also very good at the EU programmes – and this is a good thing to see from the report – because 21 percent of all projects submitted were funded and co-financed by the EU. We have a significantly higher return rate than we have invested and here only 1 per cent is below the European average, which is very good in view of the relatively short period of our membership and the not yet corresponding networking. Of course, the start-up programmes for young scientists are also positive, as the FWF is relatively reducing work in the areas of bureaucracy. I do not think so much of Mr Prinzhorn's proposal to centralize research funding, because I believe that different research institutions can also make a better assessment. However, the idea of giving parts into a foundation, even in research areas which are not in the scientific mainstream, I think, on the other hand, that it is very useful, since, of course, state institutions providing research funds always ensure that these research is successful. I would like to thank you for your attention and wish the Minister of State all the best for his personal future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e11110	Mrs Pittermann is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e11131	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Responsibility-conscious people, and thus the social-democratic group, strongly reject animal torture and unnecessary animal testing. My group is fighting for a federal animal welfare law. Economic interests must never take precedence over the protection of living beings. On the basis of fundamental considerations, we reject the motion for a resolution by Members. Dr. Petrovic. It is not the Minister's intention to draw up a concept for the conversion of animal testing to replacement methods, but, taking into account the scientific capacity of the university. It is incompatible with the freedom of research and teaching when universities have to implement concepts of a ministry. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We have excellent laws that prohibit unnecessary animal testing, as well as control of these animal experiments. So many alternative methods must be explored and introduced, so little must one fail to carry out animal experiments where they are indispensable to life and health. Animal research results are not 1:1 applicable to humans; nevertheless, the animal or biomedical model offers an important orientation. In controlled studies, medications or methods must then be tested after prior information and consent of the human being in this under careful observation. Those who are not affected by diseases that are still poor or untreated at present or who have to care for this group of patients do not appreciate the desire to improve the available resources. This changes dramatically, you are involved yourself. In recent times, we had a regime that protected animals and despised humans. At that time, the medical progress at the expense of so-called "racially unvalued people" or prisoners was enthusiastically promoted as a decisively negative attempt at human beings. For such research results obtained in the Nazi regime in prison trials, a German transfusion physician should have been awarded by the German state a few years ago, this would not have prevented a newspaper report. Threats that dedicated animal protection lobbies will prevent almost violent animal testing are immoral. Such actions endanger, damage and destroy human lives. A few years ago, a targeted campaign with newspaper reports, threats and letters against a Vienna researcher was only over when he experienced a heart attack 50 years ago as a result of the heavy load. Laws as well as improved methodology blatantly reduced animal testing. In principle, I reject the fact that a university does not give up research with necessary animal experiments, so that is the good thing that this hostile research must be carried out by other universities, which are then the evil ones. All universities have to perform unpleasant and unpopular tasks. The main weight must be on the three rs, reduction, reflection and replacement. Under these conditions, generous research contracts are awarded by the Ministry of Science – by the end of 1996 with a total volume of around 20 million Schilling. At present, eight research projects with a total volume of 14.3 million schilling are under review. In summary, I note: We have an exemplary animal testing law, generous promotion of alternative methods, and unnecessary animal testing no longer takes place in teaching. The Minister of Science stands for the freedom of research, for innovative concepts, but he never imposes research concepts on university research institutions. As the Federal Minister now leaves his place of action and turns to new tasks, I would like to thank him for his work and good cooperation and wish him all the best for the future.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e11194	Mr Rada is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e11216	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! ==References====External links== Januaryen in the field of gloss "The World 2020" to read an article by Bernd Marin, and I would like to quote some of it literally. "Nothing will change our societies more than new technologies as well as longevity and aging. Communication, reproduction, gene and medical techniques are being advanced into areas of application that our imagination does not even expect today." In fact, society, the economy and also medicine – including in Austria – have already changed as far as many, even the most grotesque prognostics did not think possible a few decades ago, even though they were already spoken of by "information society". The research report, which is discussed in great detail today, also focuses intensively on these new technologies. These resulting changes, which have brought science and research, open up many opportunities – opportunities for our economy, opportunities for new jobs, new areas of value added and, of course, very great opportunities for studies and schools. I also understand the technology billions already quoted several times today as a valuable recognition by the Federal Government for the importance of science and research. It will only be important – personally, I stress this once again – for small and medium-sized enterprises, in particular, to benefit from these research results, to help them find seamless access to these research results, and to remain competitive in their competitiveness. At the threshold to the next millennium, science and research are not only essential, but an essential must. I would also like to say clearly and clearly that this access cannot be exercised early enough in the school sector – not only that there are these results and how to achieve these results, but also how to apply them accordingly in order to meet the general demands for lifelong learning, which can certainly only be seen as an example by research and science. Since I am here as the last speaker, I do not wish to miss out on your further way to wish you every good and thank you for your work, especially as a minister of teaching, which I personally have been much closer to. Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e11258	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e11279	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would like to make at the beginning, so to speak, a communication on the Vienna Philharmonic, which was often at the end of female Members' speeches. In particular, Mrs Ablinger, I would like to point out that today the Board of Directors of the Vienna Philharmonic – perhaps as a farewell gift – has informed me that the Philharmonics will take up women in the future and propose this to the Board of Directors. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP, the Liberal Forum and representatives of the Free and Greens.]] What no one will wonder in a parliament is that this is still to be confirmed by the general assembly of the Vienna Philharmonic. [[Cheerfulness and Ah-Rufe at SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to mention two points on the subject of science and research policy, which I think are essential, without making any evaluations of my own work. One point is a political reading of the conflicts that were sometimes also very emotional, to the debates and discussions that took place last summer at the Austrian universities. I believe that, in the end, one can actually say – this thank you primarily to those who have acted with great commitment to their interests – that proof has succeeded in this Republic and the Austrian universities that a very massive, partly very personal, and undecided conflict has been exemplary in terms of democracy policy. I know from many who have been active on the part of universities and in representing university interests that the temptation – in order to say it in the political jargon – to let things tip and become more aggressive, although it has always existed again and again, I also know that the opposite has always been the temptation on the side of professional politics to dissociate itself in a form that would have made another cooperation between politics, my house, myself and the universities difficult or even impossible. I believe that it is a very positive sign of our country's democratic status that this conflict has still offered the opportunity to work together well in the course of the semester and in the sense of the universities. On the occasion I would also like to thank all those in the house who have contributed a great deal to this as far as possible. The second point concerns the research report in a narrow sense. I believe that the Austrian research landscape deserves a simple conclusion, namely that, beyond the criticism or acknowledgment of political responsibilities, political actions and actions, Austrian research achievements are not only historical, as we like to boast, but are currently great – literally great – and excellent, and that this often goes down in the debate. Many of you will have already happened that in discussions individual researchers are particularly highlighted, their achievements are appreciated and a few minutes later in the package the research landscape as a whole is a little downgraded. The political debate, the political competition and also the politically different approaches make it absolutely necessary – and that is certainly the case – that individual areas cannot be taken out of the debate, but I think it is important to separate the quality of the content from the debate on political responsibility and organisation. Finally, I would like to thank the many of you with whom I have been able to work together in various responsibilities, in different committees, in different degrees over time. I have not only liked this time very much, but also felt it to be a time when it has always succeeded in practically contradicting a cliché of non-co-operation and in showing the evidence and evidence that much more is going on without giving up positions. I would like to thank you for that. At the same time, I would like to wish you all the best. I myself have experienced today in this debate that it is better if there is a common effort to deal with things behind in the face of a change in staff. Finally, I do not want to give any advice, but I have the feeling that then there will also be debates in terms of content, and therefore I would also like to thank you for today's debate here.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e11343	No one has been reported in the word, and that concludes the debate. There is no final word from the rapporteur. We are therefore entering the voting procedure. I shall vote separately on each of the Committee's proposals. - I ask you to take the seats. First of all, I would like to put to the vote the request made by the Committee on Science and Research to take note of this report III-24 of the supplements. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. The request was accepted. We shall also vote on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report 569 of the Supplements. In case of your consent, I ask for a sign. . This request was adopted unanimously. (E 40.) We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Dr Martina Gredler and comrades on measures to reform research funding in Austria. In case of your consent, I ask for a sign. – This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. We now come to the vote on the request from the Committee on Science and Research to take note of its report 570 of the supplements. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. The request was accepted. We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on Science and Research to take note of its report 571 of the supplements. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. The request was accepted. That concludes the voting procedure. 6. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the special report of the Court of Auditors (III-34 of the Supplements) on the Federal Government's procurement; Third sub-report (404 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e11456	We're now on the 6th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The first speech is by Mr Scheibner. Please, honourable Member, you have the floor. A voluntary limitation of the speaking time of 10 minutes is indicated.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e11485	Mr President! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, the third partial report of the Court of Auditors' control of the Federal Government's procurement system is being debated. Unfortunately, we have only been able to deal with two in the House, because the first has been the National Council election in 1995. It has been two years since the National Council gave the Court of Auditors an audit mandate on procurement, and it is interesting to point out the occasion for this audit. The occasion was the accusation of corruption, lubricating payments, the famous Kraft-Marizzi affair. At the time, we have said that the Court of Auditors cannot examine these suspicions, which we all hoped would not confirm, in the interest of the national defence, because the Court of Auditors is only examining completed procurement operations on the basis of the existing file situation. However, the case at that time affected a first planned procurement case. The President of the Court of Auditors has also clearly stated in the Committee meetings that, on the basis of this case, which was formally taken as the occasion for this audit of the Court of Auditors - we wanted a committee of inquiry to examine this matter at the time - it was not possible to clarify this problem and these allegations, which were then in the room and which are still in the Chamber, without delay. Nevertheless, ladies and gentlemen, it was important and necessary for the Court of Auditors to deal in detail with some of the important procurement procedures of the Federal Government of the past, especially because these procurement procedures are constantly being brought into public debate. Again and again there are rumors of commission payments, of political influences and other circumstances that may make a correct decision impossible. It is not, I believe, a coincidence that these rumors are always occurring at federal military occupations. This is probably the case, because there is a group in this country – which is also held in this debate – to defend the country as a whole and, above all, every schilling that is used for the defence of the state is a thorn in the eye. One is happy to light up a bit and is happy to bring a negative mood, especially to the public opinion, Mr Wabl. One thing, even though it is too much to criticise, is to highlight positively, namely that in this Court of Auditors report - everyone who knows exactly how the Court of Auditors is examining - the Court of Auditors is able to assess what that means - there has been no objections in almost half of the cases examined. That is to say, from the principle – especially where one can make the resort work, the Federal Ministry of State Defense on the basis of material decisions – things are largely positive, that there are problems and perhaps irregularities – there are also in other departments – but otherwise there are no special conspicuousities. But what the Court of Auditors has also held – and I believe this is important to us – is that, when decisions are taken, which are not factually justified, which are not prepared and responsible by the experts of the Ministry, there are problems which do not actually find a legal basis. Thankfully, the Court of Auditors has also shown the fundamental weaknesses in the occupation of the army. In particular, it has been disputed that there has been a lack of planning in many procurement operations, that is to say, something which one knows only after that, if one needs to do so and for these tasks, Mr Wabl, and the second point was that, in the case of many or at least the larger procurement operations, not only military reasons for awarding orders have been important, but that there have been political influences on the one hand – Mr. Federal Minister, you are shaking the head, but there will be a lot to raise – and that, on the other hand, you, Mr. Federal Minister, as we have heard – because you have just shaken your head – in your ministerial responsibility – that is not to criticise, that is also no abuse – are the only ones in your department that can change about a decision by the military assessment commission, which has happened in the past. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wabl]] So this is certainly a clear political influence on the decision of a ministerial body, Mr Federal Minister – as far as we agree, without assessing whether this was justified in individual cases or not. What the Court of Auditors also criticised was that some of these amendments were based solely on national economic arguments. In other words, according to military assessment, the product A would have been the best, but because of national economic considerations, it has been preferred to Product B, although it has perhaps been more expensive or has also not been the best product. That is where the Court of Auditors has stated – and this is also very important and interesting for us – that this preference of a product, a type based on national economic considerations – whatever that may be – does not find any legal basis, Minister of State. This was also the reason for the fact that there is now a Standing Subcommittee which will assess this issue of the economic evaluation of such procurement operations, in particular the assessment of the compensation transactions which are constantly being held. We will see the outcome of this committee. Federal Minister! On the lack of planning: I know that a great deal is also due to the fact that there is too little money available for the national defence and, above all, for procurement in the area of the army and that there are political decisions that cannot cover the needs of the German army. But once again it would be time for you, as the responsible Minister of State, to show it openly once and to try to achieve better, more forward-looking planning for these procurement operations. For if that is the case, as the Court of Auditors has stated, that one sees what one gets about the money available, and only then, if one could finally obtain anything, try to assign this procurement to a needs-oriented planning, then I must say that it might be in the sense of the federal authorities, but not in the sense of a proper national defence and not in the sense of a sensible procurement policy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! For the selection of offers by national economic considerations, on these compensation operations and on the political influences: We took out a procurement process, which was the acquisition of anti-aircraft weapons, the famous Mistral. Federal Minister! In May 1992 the Military Assessment Commission gave preference to a Swedish product. Half a year later, in January 1993, this was quite different again. There was suddenly a French company best bidder. . The Court of Auditors itself points out that there has been clear, also political influence here. He even argues that the then Minister of Transport meant climate – I wonder what the Minister of Transport has to say in a federal army procurement – that he prefers the French product for economic reasons. So here, mine. Ladies and gentlemen, it is really obvious what political influence there has been. We have seen in the review of these compensation operations in the Court of Auditors - that was then the reason for the establishment of a permanent subcommittee - that in this assessment of compensation transactions there has been discrepancies that it is difficult to understand what volume can actually be used for calculation and how this can be examined afterwards. Again: The Court of Auditors – it is our control body – has clearly stated that there is currently no legal basis for amending military best decisions through such compensation agreements. This should also be a directive for the future for us. Ladies and gentlemen! Perhaps another point concerning the course of these Court of Auditors' meetings is the following: We have tried – you know, Federal Minister – to hold a lasting debate, even though Mr Wurmitzer said in a newspaper interview that the opposition had only asked stupidly. I do not want to judge whether he did not understand what we wanted to do, at least with his words he has contributed to the fact that a certain turbulence has come into these sessions. [[Complaints with the liberals]] Perhaps it would be better to inform Mr Wurmitzer about some of the interna in the German army, including some of the wishes that the German army itself brings to us in which we should support them, what we also like to do, so that he is informed before the meeting and then does not have to cause turbulences that may not be in our interest at all. Finally, ladies and gentlemen: We see from this Court of Auditors' report that many of the accusations of the German authorities do not correspond to the facts, but one thing is clear: that the Federal Government's procurement needs to be reformed, that we need more transparency, that we need more efficiency and, above all, that the procedures must be understood. We have proposed, Mr Federal Minister – and it would be interesting to take this up once again – that we do not always learn details about procurement projects through detours from any newspapers or even from internal information, but rather that we are discussing this here in Parliament, that we decide here a ten-year procurement plan and also a multi-annual budget guarantee for these procurement operations. Finally, there should also be a stronger cooperation between your department and the Austrian arms industry, because then this question of compensation operations would not have to be accepted so often. This would also make sense for our labour market policy. In addition, we should leave the type-approval of military procurement alone and only the Military Assessment Commission, even if, of course, we reserve ourselves control of the larger procurement procedures. Then the decision on the type selection would be depoliticized and would only be taken by the Military Assessment Commission. Federal Minister! If we meet and this can be a knowledge from the Court of Auditors' report, then in the future we could do a whole series of procurement projects – it is still to be done to finally give the federal army the resources and infrastructure that will be necessary to fulfill the orders – to avoid those discussions that in recent times have always shed such a bad light on our national defence.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e11600	Mr Wurmitzer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e11621	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! High house! The Austrian Federal Government's procurement system is now the best-tested area for the public administration of this Republic. Now the third partial report is in place, and for the third time the opposition has to note that its suspicions are no longer sustainable, for the third time the Court of Auditors has confirmed – I quote literally – that: Information on illegal payments did not appear in the verified procurement cases. This finding is to be read on page 33 in the report number 1, on page 7 in the report number 2 and on page 5 in the report number 3. It should also be noted for the third time in the report that the large-scale acquisitions of the Austrian federal army have been properly consulted in the Council of State Defense and have been or will be decided by the Council of Ministers itself. For the third time, the National Council can note that the equipment of our Federal Government has been significantly improved. Due to the acquisition of the plane defense weapon in conjunction with the radar system, effective protection for our troops and objects is actually possible for the first time. The objective of the procurement is thus achieved. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The first requirement is thus met, and there is also a confirmation by the General Force Inspector, who has informed us that the highest possible score has been achieved in the case of trials in Belgium. This statement, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, of course does not fit into your concept. You want to scandalize, and you want military procurement to be under a constant suspicion of corruption. They therefore also use unfair means to deal with your suspicions. I would just like to give the House an example from the committee. On the basis of Mr Wabl's proposal, the Court of Auditors has decided on the confidentiality of the meeting. As a result, the Chairman of the Committee urged the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs to name the names of those companies involved in compensation operations. But it's even worse: At the end of the debate, the same chairman of the Committee made the request to declare the minutes of the confidential meeting public. You see the method used here. There are also adventurous statements by Members in this committee, and I do not want to abstain from the House either. [[Abg. Wabl: This is a shame, Mr Deputies. That's it!]] One quote: "It does not make sense to have their own transport associations shielded from other units in Bosnia." This was said by a member of the opposition in the committee. [[Abg. Wabl: Mr Farnleitner said no word, and we wanted to make it public!]] This House is hiding on this statement, but has no idea what an international commitment means and it is absolutely impossible to move Austrian airspace security associations to Bosnia. [[Abg. Scheibner: continue to quote from the confidential protocol, Mr Wurmitzer.]] This is the way in which the opposition deals with procurement in the Court of Auditors. Because you are not successful with this and do not get through with it, you now want to open a side-war scene and fall into the compensation business. Also there is the same picture: They do not want to take note - although the figures speak a clear language - that the export volume from Austria to France alone amounted to 22 billion schillings between 1990 and 1994; in 1995 there was a significant increase to 31.7 billion schillings. This is absolutely in the sense of the Austrian economy, but you do not want to take note of the opposition, because simply cannot be what cannot be. I can say here that the opposition on this issue is not aware of its responsibility for Austria. It is also striking that in the Court of Auditors there is a community of actions of the total refusal of defence from the Greens with the self-proclaimed "friends of the Austrian federal army" from the Freedom Party. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] Stop scandalizing! Stop your suspicions! We work together for Austria and its security!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e11697	The next item is the speech by Mr Moser. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e11727	Mr President. I would like to start by setting the clock to 5 minutes. Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We are discussing today the special report of the Court of Auditors on the audit of the Austrian Federal Government's procurement system, the third partial report – a very interesting matter. This gives us once again the opportunity to discuss fundamental issues of procurement and armor in the German army, and I would like to start by briefly examining the results of this report. Ladies and gentlemen! The debate on procurement seems to me to be rather slow as an infinite story, because in principle there are always the same concerns. There are concerns by the Court of Auditors, which are repeated. Mr Wurmitzer, you have quoted a pass from this Court of Auditors report, which appears again and again in the three Court of Auditors reports, but there are also many other issues that are raised over and over again. Federal Minister! A number of criticisms of the Court of Auditors' report are, for example, missing overarching planning documents, changes in requirements during project planning, inadequate verifications of priceworthiness, inappropriate contract design, early re-purchasing, excess product requirements, lack of use of cheap offers, objections, especially in terms of contractual design and avoidable administrative burden. Ladies and gentlemen! These are also recurring actions of the Court of Auditors. But I think that is not really necessary. I would therefore like to ask the Minister of State from this point of view and ask him to stop the occasions for these complaints. However, I believe that many of these concerns are also due to a lack of human capacity. Therefore, my proposal, my appeal to the Federal Minister, finally also to make available the human resources in those areas where there is a real need. We needed human resources in the central office for planning, training and management – and less for the administration. If these steps are taken, then there will be the possibility in the future that we will not have to discuss the same issues of the Court of Auditors over and over again in the House. There is something else inside – Mr Wurmitzer has already mentioned this; it is to be mentioned positively and should not be kept silent – namely the fact that references to illegal payments have not been made. This, ladies and gentlemen, punishes all those lies that repeatedly seek to raise the accusation of corruption in the procurement of the army and thus collect political small money. Ladies and gentlemen! In view of the short speaking time I have available, I do not want to go further into this audit report, but I think it is necessary to make some basic findings on procurement and arms policy. One thing is clear – and this also shows the discussion in the Committee again and again –: There is no clear and clear defence policy. We do not have the necessary frameworks and foundations to really make a defence and procurement policy that is held out of the political debate. From our point of view, therefore, the next time should be used to create very concrete and clear political frameworks so that we can pursue a arms policy in this country, which will also be aligned with our future integration in a larger framework. We need, first of all, an improvement in the political framework. I mean, it's high time to define clear goals. Indeed, there are approaches through the recommendation of the 1992 National Defence Council, but they have not really been fully implemented. What we need – and this too has already been tailor-made – is finally a multiannual budget programme, a financial plan. We need cooperation with Parliament in order to obtain the federal army's equipment on a broader political basis and thus also to have a greater acceptance of the requirements and the needs of the federal army in public. Secondly, unlike Mr Scheibner, I believe that it is necessary to include economic aspects in the assessment criteria in the procurement of arms. Mr Scheibner. I believe that economic and military aspects are quite equivalent. I think it is wrong if, for example, only national economic aspects are taken into account if, by chance, two best bidders are identified. I don't think that makes sense. I believe that, if we also involve national economic aspects as a criterion of decision, if we take into account Austrian undertakings, we will also be more willing to provide the Federal Government with the means necessary for a modern, modern equipment. I would therefore very much welcome the fact that we could take better account of the economic aspects of the economy and that it would lead to greater cooperation with the Austrian economy. In particular, information on the economy needs to be improved. Thirdly, Parliamentary control seems necessary to me; at least as a parliamentarian I would like to see the standard that is common in Western democracies, whether in Germany or in France. I would therefore now like to make a motion for a resolution on increased parliamentary control of procurement operations in the field of impact of the Federal Ministry of State Defense, because I consider it necessary that these two aspects be more taken into account in the future. [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to invite you to accept this motion for a resolution in the sense of a parliamentaryization of our policy and in the sense of strengthening Parliament. . I believe that this is absolutely and urgently necessary given the inability of this federal government to reform. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e11829	The motion for a resolution which has just been read is properly tabled, duly supported and is therefore under negotiation. The next speech is by Mr Leikam. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e11853	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! ==References== In February 1995, the National Council decided to carry out an audit by the Court of Auditors of the Federal Government between 1987 and 1995. In particular, there was a desire to consider whether there had been illegal payments in connection with the procurement operations of the Federal Government. After all, in this period, procurement contracts amounting to almost 29 billion Schillings have been awarded by the Federal Ministry of State Defense. Two partial reports on the procurement of the Austrian federal army in the National Council have already been taken note of. The third partial report is now before us and is under discussion today. In all three partial reports, the Court of Auditors had no objections or evidence of illegal payments. I think that is very important. However, ladies and gentlemen, and should be pointed out, the Court of Auditors shows serious shortcomings in procurement operations in the area of the Federal Ministry of State Defense in all three partial reports. Like a red thread, gross shortcomings in strategic planning, insufficient foundations for planning steps, lack of economic indicators and lack of perception of Republic interests in the design of contracts by all three partial reports. In the third partial report on the procurement of anti-aircraft weapons, the Court of Auditors has found that economic considerations in particular have played a significant role in the selection of the offer. In particular, the fact that economic considerations have played a significant role is also the subject of debates in the ongoing subcommittee of the Court of Auditors. It's about compensation business. We confess to take account of national economic considerations in connection with procurement operations in the Austrian Federal Army. We see nothing bad in such national economic considerations, yes, we think it is desirable that economic – and not just military – considerations should also involve in procurement. [[Abg. Scheibner: We need a legal basis for this!]] However, the procurement of light-duty aircraft was problematic – as the Court of Auditors noted – when a closed approach, as stated in the report, was missing for anti-aircraft aircraft and a set of measures aimed at the tactical needs was identified only in a very advanced phase of the award procedure at the Federal Ministry of State Defense. Ladies and gentlemen! In the debate on the second partial report, ÖVP members found that the Court of Auditors had no objections in two thirds of the cases examined. I asked in the debate: Where's the other third that was challenged? Of course, we also need to talk about it. There is a similar development in the third partial report. In addition to the examination of the procurement process for the aircraft defense aircraft, another 35 procurement operations have been reviewed. In this third partial report, the President of the Court of Auditors was actually very careful, and he said that about half of these 35 audited procurement operations had not been flawed. . A very interesting and careful formulation, a formulation to be drawn from a report sent by the President of the Court of Auditors to this House on the classification of members of the National Council into a reference pyramid. It should not be easy to understand even the leaders of the "third level" why the President of the Court of Auditors does not object to the fact that about half of the procurement operations are flawed, but praises that half have no defects. [[Cheerfulness and applause at SPÖ.]] The comparison with the half-full water glass is quite appropriate here: The one says the glass is half full, the second says the glass is semi-empty. Again, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, as already in the second partial report, where it is obvious that those responsible should be treated very carefully and gently. I ask you: What about the second half? Why have these points been mentioned on a flat-rate basis in the third part of the report? This is not easy to understand for leaders of the "third level". [[Cheerfulness and applause at SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The German army is faced with further important acquisitions. As in the past – on which we all agree – one will probably not be able to carry out procurement operations further. We call on you, Minister of State, to make clear rules on procurement procedures in the future so that thorough planning is made that efficient and economic award can be made on the part of the Federal Ministry for Defence of the State.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e11903	Mr Wabl has now been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e11939	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! Many things have been said here, but I must say one thing to you, Mr Wurmitzer: It's incredible what acting you're doing here. First of all, you conceal the public that these Court of Auditors reports, these investigations have been arranged by the Court of Auditors for the simple reason that there has been a scandal in this House caused by two Members of the Court of Auditors, one of whom has been condemned. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: No!]] And just that incident was not allowed to investigate this house because you didn't want it! Ladies and gentlemen! That's the background! And now come. You, here, wake up with this beautiful subject of inquiry, the Court of Auditors' report – and I must say that I think the Court of Auditors has made every effort to get things right – and say: There is no indication of illegal payments! Mr Wurmitzer! It has not been examined what we wanted to review in this House, but it has been examined quite differently, and the President of the Court of Auditors has said this to this House with all its clarity. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: And nothing found!]] But you, Mr Wurmitzer, make a public appearance here, not to say that you would lie. Ladies and gentlemen! This is last-class parliamentaryism! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusions of the Abg. Wormitzer.]] Mr Peter! One can be pale if the Carinthian cannons are set up and one pretends to be treated with pencils. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Wurmitzer came here and claimed that I had made any manipulations with requests for confidentiality and re-enforcement of confidentiality. Would you have told this House what actually happened! We have received from the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Economic Affairs figures on the so-called compensation transactions, about the so-called murders. - I'm just wondering who. – These figures were, in any case, very different! [[Call the ÖVP: Why are you yelling like this?]] Ladies and gentlemen! Even a harsh advocate of national defence and uplifting, as Mr Scheibner said, meant that these things should be checked. But you, Mr Wurmitzer, were still opposed. They opposed the setting up of an investigation committee in this matter, they were against this subcommittee, and you have done everything in the Court of Auditors' Committee to throw fog so that the public does not know who deserves these murders. Come now They're out of there, and they're still claiming that there's indiscretion here. I'll tell you what happened there. Mr Wurmitzer said that a committee should be set up: No, we don't want it all; it's all clear. Mr Farnleitner, Federal Minister, pointed out that he was unfortunately unable to provide any information to the Court of Auditors, because he had to ask the armaments companies to see if he could do so. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the Greens.]] Mr Wurmitzer! The arms companies are inside in many areas, certainly also in Carinthia, but it is already so far that the "poor" Minister of Economic Affairs has to ask whether he is allowed to provide information to the confidential Court of Auditors to the representatives of the people, that is what I wanted to make public. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: This is the same in other companies!]] . There was nothing there that would have to be protected from Mr Farnleitner. Call me a single fact! Mr Koppler said: It is only the fact that a Member has been asked to disclose names that is already the reason enough to keep this secret. [[Abg. Koppler: With fug and justice!]] Just the fact! I wanted to make it clear to the public that you, Mr Wurmitzer, who were put in charge of foglights were assisted by Mr Farnleitner and by Mr Fassleven. That's what we wanted to clarify in this house! But you, Mr Wurmitzer, come out here and claim that it has been tasted with deception maneuvers and tricks. – We wanted to get to the bottom of the matter! Again: Even Mr Scheibner, even the FPÖ has seen that this cannot be done, Mr Wurmitzer. Ladies and gentlemen! We have already recognized, on the basis of the documents, that on the infamous "Conto seperato" – one can see this beautiful name, I think it is nice that this one has such an Italian, such a southern Italian sound – arms companies collect shops over years, so to speak, which they then attack in order to be able to hold the ministry Mr. Minister! [[Rejoicing with the Greens]] [[Abg. Murauer: Consciously wrong! Unfortunately again consciously wrong!]] If you continue to want the balance sheets to vote with this company, you will probably have to consider whether you are doing this arms business. [[Prolonged calls of the Abg. Murauer.]] Mr Murauer! Look You're looking at the facts! Even your ally will give me the right thing. We had two weapons systems to choose from: The one weapon system was created by the military evaluation commission as the best bidder – as the best bidder! – qualified. The other armaments system of the French armaments firm was more expensive by 400 million Schilling, but the French armaments companies obviously have very, very many civil companies under control, both in France and already in Austria. It is clear that they are also under the control of the Federal Minister that he must ask these companies whether the confidential committee is allowed to learn anything. – Mr Murauer! Self-esteem is, I think, a word very rare in your vocabulary. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I now also understand what Mr President-in-Office of the Court of Auditors is mistakenly talking about under the "third level of leadership", which has already been pointed out by Mr Leikam in a polemic way today. – Of course: That can only be the third level! [[Abg. Murauer: If you listen to the Wabl: yes!]] Why should the first level of leadership, combined with the arms industry, reveal secrets to the third level of leadership? That would be quite perverse, Mr Murauer, to bind your noses to the next meeting of the ÖAAB and say that there are good business to do there! – This is not what these gentlemen, Mr Murauer, are doing. That is why their salary is also relatively low in this income pyramid! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the greens.]] [[Abg. Murauer: Are you still with the Court of Auditors or with the general conversation?]] I am at the arms shops that I consider murders, and we people's representatives are invited to reveal this swindle with the compensation transactions! I agree with Mr Leikam that economic aspects are quite relevant. But what is going on under the title of "popular" is the elimination of the market economy – in the back, the arms industry, which is willing to exert pressure on all sides and possibly also to attack other things, which I do not want to talk about here and today. But that was something that spoke of in-depth strength and Marizzi. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Regardless of what Mr Scheibner said, as we stand for the defence of the country, we want transparency in business transactions in this country. We want the Minister to sit in the committee for so long and give us people's representatives information until we know exactly why these transactions have come about. Mr Wurmitzer! If you had closely followed the meetings of the Committee of Auditors and the statements of the officials of the Ministry, then all the alarm bells should have ringed. It was called there: We cannot talk about it today because all these lists about these companies that appear on the "Conto seperato" are confidential. But one thing I can tell you here: All the names that appear there sound like the little one-time, who has something to say in the arms industry and who produces which weapon. All these companies, ladies and gentlemen, are to be found in this union. I'm not talking about the politicians yet. – I already have a joke for Mr. Minister of State Fassleven thought: He should perhaps buy ostrich for his transports instead of the Haflinger in the future. This is probably a better business at the moment! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Headmaster.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Koppler! We of the Greens have full understanding that the industry in Austria wants to get to good business. And I also think it is right that, when the state does business, it is considered whether the effect on our industry is having. But this system of arms stores actually brings only a marode arms industry in Europe back to the front and increases the interconnection of all these dark channels. Maybe you remember: Mr. Altbundeskanzler Kreisky once said about arms operations lapidar: That's very dangerous. – I say, Mr Wurmitzer: They're dangerous to murder! And as you put the parliamentaryism in my mind, murder is dangerous.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e12127	Before I give the floor to the next Member, I would like to point out that you, Mr Wabl, were not in your choice of words. At about 8.18 p.m., you spoke of the "swirls with the compensation shops", at 8.12 p.m. you needed the word "lying". For the use of the word "lye" I give you a call for order. [[Abg. May. Kammerlander: "I don't want to lie," he said.]] Mr Wurmitzer! I give the floor to you for an actual correction. Two minutes' speaking time according to Rules of Procedure are known.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e12163	Mr President. High house! Mr Wabl has said here that I would have done everything I could to throw fog. This finding is incorrect. [[Abg. Wabl: Where is the correction?]] I have made sure that those who are safe to make statements at a confidential meeting are not misled by the subsequent publication of the minutes. Secondly, Deputies! You have claimed here that Mr Farnleitner should only ask the arms companies. This finding is also incorrect: We never talked about arms companies. It was about companies involved in compensation transactions. [[Abg. Wabl: That's incredible!]] The third statement: They have claimed here that all those mentioned there have rank and names in the arms industry. This finding is also incorrect: For example, if you call a mast company from Carinthia involved in deliveries a company belonging to the arms industry, go astray! All in all, you have to say that your findings do not contribute to the brightening of this article!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e12218	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), who have spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party Please, honourable Member. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e12239	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr President-in-Office of the Council! First of all, I would like to thank the Court of Auditors for the careful examination of the principles known: Legality, economy, economy and effectiveness. This report also offers many very well formulated proposals for improvement, which are received and implemented by the experts responsible for the Federal Ministry. As far as Mr Scheibner's comments are concerned, In the verification shooting that took place before the signature under the contract for the "Mistral" as a light anti-fly weapon, i.e. when shooting, it became clear that this "Mistral" with a 100% hit rate – which can be demonstrated by tables – was the right device for military use. And it's also economically right. They have mounted the legal basis for this: There is a very clear statement from the member of the Constitutional Court of Dr. Korinek and Mr. Universitätsprofessor Dr. Aicher, who clearly states that the Federal Minister is entitled and obliged to include these principles in terms of binding efficiency in the Constitution. In the case of lFAL "Mistral", it was found that this was the case in the award procedure, both by economic and constitutional experts. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] So what more do we want than to clarify the military, economic and constitutional correctness? So this decision was clearly correct. And this has proved to be very, very well proven, as the external, independent experts, in turn, have shown us as an expert in the compensation business, as well as the section in the Ministry of Economic Affairs, which reviews these compensation transactions. [[Abg. Scheibner: Why does the Court of Auditors say the opposite?]] The Court of Auditors has clearly stated that it is not about so-called fraud, Mr Wabl, but, as has been demonstrated by external experts and by the senior officials of our section of industry, it is about total transactions worth 938 million. [[Abg. Wabl: That's wrong!]] ==References====External links== In May 1993 to mid-1996, Matra had a commitment to contribute 240 million to counter-tradings per year, and there was a requirement for counter-tradings of a total of 840 million by the end of 1996. In fact, they have fulfilled by 100 million more. – This is not any finding, but it has been demonstrated by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and by external opinions. Ladies and gentlemen! The federal army buys a very large number of goods every year and spends a lot of tax money on it. Therefore, a multi-stage procedure is also provided for in the Federal Government procurement process, with independent institutions and experts taking on the responsibility of each other. – I'll list the stages of such a procurement. First: Identification of requirements in the General Force Inspectorate; second: Description of performance in Section IV, Group Management; third: actual call for tenders in the commercial part of Section IV, Group Purchasing; fourth: accompanying control in all procurements over one million by the group of control offices which is directly subordinated to the Federal Minister; fifthly: Release of the payment by the Federal Ministry of Finance, additional review of the financial conditions; sixthly: upon request examination of closed cases by the Court of Auditors, internally in samples by the Federal Ministry's control office. At the time, this control office was introduced, and after that there was a control report on all internal controls in all ministries. To this end, I would like to quote the Court of Auditors' report literally: "The control office in the Federal Ministry of Defence is the most efficient internal control of all departments." This is also a statement by the Court of Auditors, which we welcome as well as the proposals for improvement in other areas. 7th there is also a possibility of complaints from providers at the Federal Award Office: And the fact that only three complaints were made to this office within three years in the case of 38 000 small and large procurement operations also speaks a clear language. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Wabl, who is not at all able to polemise against everything the army is about to do, should take seriously the peace researcher Professor Angela Mickley, who was highly appreciated by him and also by the Greens in Germany, in a lecture in Graz on 3 March. 10. In 1996, it spoke clearly and clearly. – I quote from the "Small Newspaper": "Without military, if the peace researcher admitted, it wouldn't go in exceptional situations. If, as in Exjugoslavia, one knew that terrible injustice is happening in camps, and one only sees, it lies between incompetent and cowardly." With the words "No Peace Without Army" is the title of this article on the lecture by peace researcher Angela Mickley. That's not what any militants say, as you say, but that's what peace researcher Angela Mickley says! Mr Wabl also pointed out that there was still the need to set up a committee of inquiry on old accusations. – There was a political responsibility for a genuinely impossible statement, and the honourable Member concerned has succeeded, and there is no other political responsibility to examine in this respect! This is past or past and therefore no longer up-to-date!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e12298	Mr Wabl has made a statement on an actual correction. Please, honourable Member: 2 minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e12322	The Member from Styria has claimed that the compensation operations are proved to be complete. [[Abg. Auer: You need to classify this more closely!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Wabl is also a delegate from Styria! There are several of them!]] That's wrong, because we'll get the documents first. He himself participated in the unanimous decision. That's why I'm wondering: What do we need documents if everything is already proven, Mr Maitz? It's just wrong what you're saying here, and that's just in the light...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e12376	I ask you to correct this, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e12391	Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e12421	Mr Fassleven has now been reported to speak. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e12443	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! I give a brief presentation of the process of procurement Mistral, which was criticized by some members of the House at the time and also in the subsequent period. 1987: Initiation of the project planning process, July 1991: Recommendation of the Council of State Defense and the consent of the Federal Government on the equipment of the Federal Army with anti-aircraft weapons, November 1991: Approval of the Military Questionnaire, December 1991: Release for procurement, May 1992: Call for tender, August 1992: Opening of tenders, September 1992: Commission assessment, November 1992: Setting up of the new quantity structure, January 1993: Meeting of the Council of State Defense, consulting the results, obtaining opinions of economic and legal nature and a unanimous recommendation from the Council of State Defense, including all members, except for a single exception, namely the party that has never agreed to a procurement process in the Federal Army, i.e.: Consent of all government-bearing parties, including the Freedom Party, to this procurement process. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It also took note by the Freedom Party that, of course, economic interests, as prescribed by the Constitution, are also taken into account in the principle of economy, economic efficiency and efficiency. [[Abg. Wabl: Which parties are not state-bearing, Mr. Minister?]] To what extent economic interests can be of importance, I would like to state quite clearly, on the basis of the last major procurement project, namely the Mech package: A few days after the decision of the Council of State Defense, the Belgian Federal Government and the Belgian army decided to purchase an Austrian product, namely the Pandur, with an order value of well over 400 million Schilling. This was only possible because, a few years ago, Austria decided to acquire the pandour, so that the company Steyr could not at all have put this product on the market at international level, and because, secondly, the Council of State Defence decided to continue to equip the German army with it, and thus also provided the basis for the overall achievement of a substantial benefit and benefit for the Austrian economy, in the sense of securing jobs. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to add the following critically: The so-called Mech package, which contained two procurement contracts to Austrian companies and on the other hand two Government-to-Government orders, has been discussed and partially criticised in the public. – I do not know to what extent these transactions would have been scandalized if they were not Austrian companies and government-to-government businesses! Rethinking You're critical of this yourself! That is why I am looking for you not only for intellectuals, but also for political honesty. It is important not to make it even more difficult for officials who are trying to carry out their task as far as possible in the interests of the security of the country, but to help them to fulfil this difficult task accordingly. For your support, I thank you for the most cordial!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e12492	Mrs Apfelbeck is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Please, ladies and gentlemen: A voluntary limit of 6 minutes is indicated.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e12514	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Federal Minister! Mr Maitz! It would be nice if the procurements were actually the way you described this to us. You may be right: In the case of small purchases, such as in the procurement of pencils, pencil sharpeners and office clamps. In the case of the large procurements, Mr Maitz, what you have read to us here is pure wishful thinking. My colleague, Mr Scheibner, has already given you enough details of this Court of Auditors report. I come now from a lack of time to speak to the Court of Auditors: For parts of the Committee's deliberations, confidentiality was decided on on 24 February. 10. 1996. At the time of reading – and I do not now break the confidentiality – of the protocol, which is suspended in Parliament's management, I concluded that it was only necessary to clarify whether I was allowed to understand this Protocol as a member of the Committee on Committee of the Regions that Mr Farnleitner was twice of the opinion that at the beginning of the meeting of the 24th General Assembly. 10. the cancellation of confidentiality has been decided and not vice versa. And that's why Mr. Farnleitner didn't want to give us any information. This is to be read twice in the Protocol. Mr Wurmitzer! You can also read this protocol! – With this acceptance by Federal Minister Farnleitner, I am not surprised that the ÖVP is demanding a test from its own politicians! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Court of Auditors has repeatedly found that payments are made too early. This is also the case in the present report: The Court of Auditors notes that this was the case in half of the orders. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: That's already off, don't you know?]] Mr Maitz. It was the case! That's what the report says. I'm glad that's been turned off now! But it took long enough, Mr. Cot. It took ten years or more! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In the light of the report, however, a layman can also say, Mr Maitz, that the interests of the Republic are not always respected. I hope they will be kept in the future, because you have meant that everything has now been abandoned! However, I cannot understand the ÖVP when it repeatedly claims – Mr Wurmitzer has said this today – that illegal payments have not been proved. So there was no one. . I do not now claim that there have been illegal payments. But the question of illegal payments can never be resolved by means of a sample examination. In this context, I would like to mention the Court of Auditors' report, in which it says on page two that only 43 procurement operations have been examined by sampling procedures. Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me to express my opinion on this: In such a sample examination, this question of illegal payments can never be answered correctly with Yes or No!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e12563	Mr Gaál is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e12585	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Court of Auditors report before us today confirms again clearly and clearly the accuracy of our many years of demands for a reorganisation of the military procurement system. In my opinion, there must be a choice of practices which have a far higher degree of transparency and perceptibility than has been the case in the past. It is therefore necessary to take a comprehensive approach, including, in particular, economic and industrial considerations, which means that from the outset, in addition to military needs, economic needs and conditions must also be taken into account. Ladies and gentlemen! The acquisition of equipment, weapons and equipment for the federal army and the related services must not be dissolved, but must be seen in the interests of the Austrian economy and industry. I am right to give priority to all those who, from military waiting, put the technology and the ability to fight. Nevertheless, economic aspects must also be taken into account. And that means to me: The decisive factor in a procurement contract is not exclusively military suitability, especially if it is equivalent. Rather, the amount and quality of the related compensation transactions and the economic profits are crucial. That is why, as I repeatedly ask, and this also calls for my group, in addition to the military duty booklet, we also need to create the conditions for the creation of an economic code of conduct so that it is clear from the very beginning, under which economic conditions we are at all ready to buy a particular weapon, which can only be purchased abroad, because there is no corresponding Austrian product in fact abroad. In this context, it is therefore of particular concern to me that the highest priority should be given to the procurement of arms, in particular the principles of effectiveness, economy and economy. I am therefore very concerned that, although we have repeatedly pointed out the shortcomings which unfortunately exist in the entire planning area of the Federal Army for years now, nothing has changed in this regard. There are still double-tracks, there are no clear limits of responsibility, and red tape in the army, ladies and gentlemen, is disproportionately high over the rest of the administration. Although the military division of 1992 has reduced the force of action to 120 000 men, i.e. a halving of the army, and although the Ministry of Defence has spent millions of money on the acquisition of modern office communications, more than 1,500 officials are still busy with procurement operations. As the administrative and also management measures have only marginalized, it is poorly ordered about the force. We know, ladies and gentlemen, that there are still units and associations of the Federal Army, with only 50 percent of the Kadersol. Federal Minister! When will steps finally be taken to enable commanders to take real business action? Many skills have to be shifted to the force. Only this will achieve more cost-effective and faster processes. What have been the consequences of the shortcomings repeatedly identified by the Court of Auditors and the resulting recommendations? What has been done so that the mistakes of the past are not repeated but avoided? Is there a principle in this regard? Please give us concepts! All these questions need to be clarified before concrete procurement is decided on in the arms field. Because large-scale procurements in the military sector are increasingly millions and billions. For the future, it is therefore necessary to ensure that policy-makers have the appropriate decision-making bases and analyses, which clearly and clearly reflect the need for arms. It is essential that there is comprehensive military principle planning for all military areas, i.e. operations, training and, of course, procurement. For in the context of the cost of procurement, account must be taken of the total cost of a particular system that occurs during the lifetime. Therefore, when selecting an offer, not only the low purchase price, for example for a second hand device, may be decisive. That's why I can only repeat: We Socialists are willing to take responsibility also in the military defence of the country. We stand for modern equipment and weapons that ensure the protection and survival of our soldiers in all situations. However, the necessary planning documents must be on the table and clear priorities must be set. This includes active co-design and active co-decision. Only under these conditions will we be prepared to share political decisions in the defence of the state in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e12639	Mrs Kammerlander is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e12660	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. As I have listened to this debate so far, I have repeatedly heard the surprising question of why the federal army's procurement is being examined at all and so much. Apart from the fact that there was the simple answer: If you stop buying, we will stop testing!, I must tell you: In the light of this report, we will probably have to ask a few questions! Mr Wurmitzer! They said, "best-tested." I will reply to that: often already checked, but not tested! For the examinations were not carried out with the aim and effect that it would really be the best result, or perhaps also changes in procurement or procurement. Despite the many tests, this has not been the case so far. It may still be asked why the best bidder's missiles were not taken. It may well be asked why the offer of a company that was cheaper by 400 million schillings was cut out. You may still ask what kind of business and what companies they were. You do not need to put yourself out here, Mr Maitz, and to say that is all that has been examined, and there are opinions, that is not a twilight. – Then put it on the table, then bring these opinions and these documents! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But they don't exist. That's the Crux. You can easily claim that here. Obviously you know more than the other Members here. In any case, they do not know these transactions and these companies, especially the settlement of the transactions or the state of the settlement, because you have never submitted these opinions and these documents here. That's exactly what you refuse. We will probably have to ask ourselves how there has been a sudden offer of compensation: firstly, one by 2.4 billion, which has been increased to 3.8 billion in the short term and then reduced to 2.4 billion. One may still ask that, because that there is something strange here, that is clear and safe at least. Minister! They say that in the Council of State Defense, everything was decided by the state-bearing parties. So your definition of state-bearing parties would interest me. State-bearing parties are obviously all those who agree to arms business, and all the others who do not agree to arms business are no longer present in your department and vocabulary at all. But if you say that the Council of State Defense decided unanimously, and you should take note of this, then I can only tell you that a whole series of arguments have not been taken into account. First of all, the results of the evaluation committee's discussions have not been taken into account. They have simply been swept away from the table in the Council of State Defense, with whatever arguments they may have been, they have at first certainly not been taken into account. And these were probably also federal and internal arguments used by this evaluation committee. Mr Maitz. Since I do not need to have any particular attitude to the federal army, as my colleague has already said, I can certainly also be a glowing advocate or an ardent advocate of the federal army, but that must already make me happy if, suddenly, there is such a peculiar offer, if there is a higher offer in the course of compensation transactions, and the objections of this assessment committee, which was set up for this purpose, are simply not taken into account. These objections – and they are already going into matter – were precisely based on the fact that what is offered by Mistral is not so introduced into the armies as well. All these arguments, which were brought by the state-owned people, by senior officers, were swept by the table. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: You don't want to understand!]] It's all very strange. This is not cabaretistic at all, because the Court of Auditors' report does not give you any white paper at all. Not at all! He notes, as Mr Applebeck has said, that only sample-like procedures could be carried out and that the appropriate documents that would require a comprehensive examination are not available at all, and therefore it is not possible to carry out an examination which could be carried out in your resolution of the corresponding White Paper. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: This too is wrong! They want to remove the federal army! Tell me! That's not responsible!]] – This is obviously the fear you have. That is the point: It is your fear that one day there could no longer be a federal army, and that would be something very terrible and bad, because then Mr Maitz could not be able to profile himself anywhere, because then his political area would simply be rationalized. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Non-responsible is what you do here!]] When you listen to you, you get the impression that it's not about checking these really questionable shops, but about you – and some others too – it's only about supporting the legitimacy of the federal army once again. If even the minister has to make the art grip here to come to the pandour, to actually talk about something different than he should – he should comment on the Court of Auditors' report; but here he talks about something else that doesn't happen in it at all – then that says a lot. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Now go out the arguments! Now you need to become personal, because the arguments are coming out!]] If you look at what types of weapons and holes have been obtained here and which companies are those in which the whole is related, you can see that your entire argumentation is going in this direction. It is quite clear that there has been a massive intervention by France in the offer of the French company Matra for Mistral. That there has been a massive junkitization in this context with a positive attitude by France towards Austria's later accession to the European Union has long been obvious. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: That's all pure invention!]] If you look at the list of current, the last German army acquisitions and the planned future, you will always see the direct connection with NATO compatible systems, with NATO compatible weapons, but also with weapons companies, arms companies belonging to the NATO area. – Mr Moser, you don’t have to shake your head at all, because your preference for tanks and for the catchers is known anyway. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: "Mr. Brigadier!", please!]] That you are obviously doing all you can to ensure that this is done, no matter how questionable some business is here, that is your own story. You have to clear that from the Liberals – that will still fall on your head. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: We are all right if the correct speech is right! We want to: Mr. Brigadier!]] But if you look at the list of procurements, you will clearly see the connection with the NATO compatible system. They are making advances here and are preparing for something that has not yet been decided by Parliament and has not yet taken a political decision at all. That's actually something that makes especially stupid. Another word about these compensation transactions and the companies in Austria: No matter who these companies are, they are the extended workbench of a maritime arms industry, where you think you have to participate. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: It's civilian companies! Don't talk like that. Fairy fairy-tale aunt!]] Even if I don't know the companies: It must be Steyr, it must be VOEST-ALPINE and some more companies. You don't need to keep that secret, because everyone who deals with it knows it anyway. The more you watch your behavior and the more you listen to your reasoning, the more intelligible the whole thing becomes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e12805	Mr Edler is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e12826	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! It has already been repeatedly expressed today: This third partial report of the Court of Auditors' Special Report is actually a continuation of the shortcomings and weaknesses. It is, in fact, unfortunate that on the part of the Federal Army, but also on the part of the competent ministry, no more attention has been paid to the long-standing criticism that has been justified, and it would be high time for standards to be applied there, which allow for a commercial deal. There is a lack of planning. I would just like to give a few examples. For example, the fuel organization. Contracts will be concluded without taking into account changes in tariffs, approvals and cetera. – Loss: 770 000 S. Ladies and gentlemen! That's a lot of money. Especially if we are constantly discussing savings measures, it is also appropriate in this area to deal with the funds more cautiously. Or another example: There are certainly certain invoices, resulting in substantial financial losses. This procedure should be discontinued as soon as possible. It has already been mentioned today that there are almost no business considerations. The views are much too short here. I think it has to be repeated once again: In the field of procurement, it is essential that a new regulation with transparency and greater control is introduced. Estimated Minister of State! They have repeatedly given their views on this matter in the Court of Auditors' Committee, but we know that if such incidents occur in other local authorities or in other ministries or official bodies, there must also be consequences. But the consequences of this have never been reported. Ladies and gentlemen! I hope that the following reports will no longer have to continue these shortcomings and weaknesses and that there will at last be more transparency and greater savings in this area. The Federal Government's procurement is particularly concerned with state policy decisions, ladies and gentlemen. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has already been consulted, and there is a subcommittee dealing with it. I really hope that it will be shown whether the agreements that were concluded at the time have really been complied with or whether we can still expect some jobs here, as far as the labour market is concerned. For us as social democrats and especially for me as employee representatives, it is natural that we should also consider the importance of labour market policy in this context. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to highlight one more point in particular, and I would also like to address the President of the Court of Auditors here. If this report, in the final remarks under point 7 above, points out that the purpose of the Treaty is to pay more attention to the interests of the Republic of Austria - I think it should not be written - and if that has not been done, it is very unfortunate, and then there must certainly be consequences here. Ladies and gentlemen! I'll come to the end. I have already mentioned this in a debate on the Federal Government's procurement: It is here to be done in accordance with the principles of legality, economy and effectiveness. Personally, I do not take up a position against the German army, but I am in favour of a tangible, transparent procurement system with the German army. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e12880	I call Mr Wallner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e12902	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! As the last speaker, the Court of Auditors' Special Report gives me once again the opportunity to make a clear commitment to the Austrian federal army, a commitment to the best possible training of our soldiers and to the best possible equipment – but on condition that there is an extremely correct procurement system. The Court of Auditors' report, however, makes it clear to us because of the 35 cases examined, that we are still very far from this optimal objective. Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian Federal Army has undergone functional change over the last ten years. If space defense was in the foreground until the late 1980s, the border security was the primary task of our Austrian federal army at the latest since the outbreak of the conflict in the Balkans. In addition, the accession of Austria to the European Union strengthens the transition from the defence of the border to the defence of the border, making our country the EU's external border with a large part of its borders. The responsible task of securing the EU's external border requires a powerful army, and this can only be achieved through modern equipment and an inaccurate procurement system, as I mentioned earlier. Ladies and gentlemen! But in the past, as the Court of Auditors' report clearly shows, serious mistakes have occurred. An important point of criticism in this context is the procurement of light-duty aircraft in May 1993, as mentioned in the debate. As a result of the product decision on the acquisition of anti-aircraft weapons launched in 1987 in 1993 due to the lack of overall planning documents and insufficiently documented changes in specifications during project planning and offer evaluation to the decision-making of the Ministry of State Defense in favour of the product finally selected, which was not sufficiently justified from a military point of view. A second serious mistake, which I would like to highlight very briefly here, was made in the acquisition of driver night vision devices. The offer of a foreign company and a foreign military force was available for this procurement. The offer of the foreign military force was around a third cheaper than that of the foreign company, but the equipment was not fit into all federal military vehicles. For this reason, the contract went to the foreign company. In this procurement, the Ministry of State Defense must be accused that no market research has been carried out in relation to other providers. In addition, the Federal Ministry of State Defense would have saved 810 000 S in the event of the appointment of the driver night vision devices available in part of the vehicles and the purchase of the corresponding installation kits would have saved another 1.9 million schilling – and that in times of close-up savings package. The others in the foreign armed forces could have been manufactured in their own workshops. According to this variant, the Federal Ministry of State Defense would have saved a total of 10.9 million Schilling. Ladies and gentlemen! I'll come to the end. However, the procurements just mentioned are by no means the only ones in which the German Federal Ministry of Defence has made mistakes. At around 50 percent of the headquarters' procurements audited by the Court of Auditors, shortcomings were identified. My personal summary: In this area, there is an absolute need for action for the Federal Ministry of Defence and for those responsible in the future. It is about optimally equipping our soldiers, but with the most economical and efficient use of the Austrian taxpayers' money.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e12950	The President of the Court of Auditors has now spoken. Please, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e12971	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! In connection with the Court of Auditors' finding that almost half of the 35 cases of procurement examined by the central office had no defects, Mr Leikam addressed a question to me because it appeared somewhat unclear in the context of this finding. Deputies! I should like to point out that the Court of Auditors, in the course of this procurement test – it is the third procurement test in the context of the contract given to it, and we have now submitted a report on it – in particular the procurement of light aircraft-reinforced aircraft and of driver-night vision devices, of heavy grenade-throwers, of grenade-thrower ammunition and of fuels – has reviewed all procurement operations which had a contract value of more than 100 million; in the case of aircraft-reinforced aircraft, the order value was even more than 1.4 billion schilling. These procurement operations have been very detailed in this report, and we have expressed our criticism of the various procurement procedures and have included the relevant recommendations in our report. In addition, the Court of Auditors has examined the 35 procurement operations of the Central Office mentioned by you, and these procurement cases, which you seem to miss in the report, can be found on pages 21 to 23 of this report. The Court of Auditors has not found any or only minor shortcomings. Therefore, as in the case of the second partial report, the Court of Auditors did not have any doubt as to what cases were involved and what size they were. I therefore have to reject the allegation that the Court of Auditors has, for example, failed to examine it or has not made a sufficient statement on this point in its report. The Court of Auditors, if one sees the report as a whole and if one also considers that part where the further procurement cases and the Court of Auditors' evaluations are cited, has not left any ambiguities in view of the cases examined by it, and has also left no doubt as to how it assesses the cases of procurement examined by it. I would therefore ask the honourable Member once again to see the report from this point of view. You will then find that what the Court of Auditors has found in the report in connection with the freedom of deficiencies is based on the principles which the Court of Auditors has raised in the context of its audit and which it has also justified in the report. I should like to ask you to go back to the report on this subject.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e13014	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm - Please. Your club has a remaining speaking time of a total of 16 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e13035	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In view of the advanced hour, I would just like to take out two more aspects. The thing that challenges me is what Mr Wurmitzer said. – I am sorry if everyone now falls over Mr Wurmitzer, but behind what he has said so salopp from the speaker’s desk, there is already some insidiousness. Mr President, I should like to thank Kraft/Marizzi – You remember one of the most unpleasant affairs we have had in this House over the past five years. [[Objection to SPÖ and ÖVP.]] No, it's not negotiable. Mr President, I should like to thank It's an unappetising affair, I'm staying with it, and you can't talk it away. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If Mr Wurmitzer forgets that this affair has not only led to the condemnation of the honourable Member, but also to his immediate resignation – he has disappeared, was gone, more or less overnight – I am sorry, but then one has to help his memory a little bit. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! What the opposition wanted was not this investigation by the Court of Auditors, but it wanted to close the opposition – all three opposition parties – the establishment of a parliamentary committee of inquiry. But you have rejected it, ladies and gentlemen, from the government groups. He was uncomfortable with you. For a time the SPÖ even gave the impression that it wanted to agree. But then she bowed down to the coalition reason. The climate between the coalition parties is not bad for the first time in these days, it was bad at the time. Ladies and gentlemen! The compromise came about. I recall the words of the President of the Court of Auditors, who said: I warn the House against overcoming expectations in connection with these procurement investigations. – President Fiedler said that in this House not all too long ago. Secondly aspect, which I would like to take very briefly, ladies and gentlemen: What is the real picture of the assessment of these economic influences? I am not of the opinion of Mr Moser, who said: Yes, absolutely, there must be any economic parameters in it. – Ladies and gentlemen! The question of compensation transactions can only be relevant if these are two really comparable, technically comparable offers and if the two offers are very, very close to each other in price. Then the next step would be to consider which of the two providers, who remained after the foreordainment, would really bring in the better economic component. – Otherwise, please do not, otherwise you will carry out any compensation offer ad absurdum. One of them says: We compensate 300 percent!, the next one goes here and says: We compensate 400 percent, 500 percent. – All of this is very, very difficult to understand afterwards. I know you always try to set up an account, and then try to draw some way so that only somehow you can prove what compensation services have been achieved. I say to you, ladies and gentlemen, it is really very difficult to keep track of what would have happened automatically in bilateral trade agreements from company to company and what has actually been done by a compensation contract, because it is really about examining what business has been done in addition to what has happened and not about what business has happened or what has come about. It must be kept apart. I appeal both to the Federal Minister for Defence and to the Minister for Economic Affairs that this question of evaluation should be quantified in advance, that the directives should also be laid down in advance, so that one can understand them afterwards and perhaps one day one can find a procurement project that is not under the light of the suspicion of corruption.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e13104	I call Mr Wabl. Second word, therefore remaining time: 9 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e13126	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Let me ask you a question. You have presented the subject-matter of the examination and in short words you have mentioned what were the final remarks in your audit reports. But one thing would interest me, Mr President: In the case of the specific case with the French armaments firm, there was a best offer in the aircraft defense armaments, which was also cheaper by 400 million schilling, but for reasons of the economy – because of compensation operations – another weapon system was preferred. Why were the compensation transactions not checked? Why has the extent of these compensation operations not been examined and whether these transactions are correct? – We have had to find in the subcommittee that this so-called conto be added separately to things that had already been charged for a long time before the actual arms business. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: You weren't counted! They're twisting everything!]] – Mr Maitz, you were there yourself. This is a process that is extremely worrying and that opens the door to political and economic extortion. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! I would ask you to present this matter here. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: You're twisting everything!]] – Mr Maitz, Member of the Commission. You're just the third level of leadership, you were the first level of leadership!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e13182	The President of the Court of Auditors is now speaking. Please, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e13203	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Wabl! I can answer the following very briefly to your question: The Court of Auditors has received a very clear mandate from the National Council before taking part in these audits. And this mandate of the National Council referred to the cases of procurement in the federal army. But what you have now mentioned and what has also occurred in the course of the discussions in the Committee is the interest of the National Council in compensation operations. However, I would like to point out that these are a consequence of the procurement process and not a prerequisite for the procurement on the basis of the order received by the Court of Auditors from the National Council. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the Court of Auditors, in view of the abundance of procurement cases with its auditing capacity, is more than 40 000 procurement cases. – had already been so burdened that everything else would have led to a further burden on the Court of Auditors. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wabl.]] If the clear mandate of the National Council at that time had been to examine not only the procurement procedures but also the whole environment or the conclusions to be drawn from the procurement procedures, the Court of Auditors would of course have done so, as provided for in the Constitution. However, the Court of Auditors has not been given such a detailed task, which would have included compensation operations, and therefore the Court of Auditors has not carried out such an examination. [[Abg. Wabl: That was part of the contract, Mr President.]] Deputies! You could have made a further request to transfer the review of compensation operations to the Court of Auditors as a further order! Of course, the Court of Auditors would have examined this too. However, I do not seem to be allowed to derive a whole chain of further commitments from the Court of Auditors to individual audits from an audit order which has been transferred to the Court of Auditors by the National Council. This would lead to the fact that the clear requirement laid down by the Constitution for the concreteisation of the audit contracts could also be undermined in this way, which no one would like to see. I would like to point out once again, with all due regard: If the will of the National Council is to carry out a review of compensation operations by the Court of Auditors and such a decision is taken, then the Court of Auditors will of course also have to comply with this task. – However, such a task is not available to the Court of Auditors. He therefore failed to undergo such an examination within the framework of the contract awarded to him in concrete terms, which concerns the procurement for good reason. First of all, the fullness of his further examination would have been inevitable in time, and second, and that should not be forgotten, this would have hindered the fastest fulfillment of the contract actually given to him, because the examination would have been much more extensive and would have suffered the expediency that the Court of Auditors had been experiencing in this audit. I would ask the honourable Member to take this into account if you would ask the Court of Auditors to examine compensation operations in the context of this examination.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e13248	No one has been reported in the word anymore. That concludes the debate. A final word of the rapporteur is not wanted. We are therefore entering the voting procedure. To this end, I ask the Members to take up the seats and the staff to leave the courses between the seats. We first come to the vote on the Committee's request to take note of this report III-34 of the supplements. In the case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done by the majority and is therefore adopted. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Hans Helmut Moserund Comrades on increased parliamentary control of procurement operations in the field of effect of the Federal Ministry of State Defense. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done by the minority. The request is therefore rejected. This also concludes the voting procedure. 7. Point First reading of motion 342/A by Dr Peter Kostelkaund Comrades concerning a Federal Constitutional Act amending the Federal Constitutional Act 8. Point First reading of motion 344/A by Mr Peter Kostelkaund Comrades concerning a Federal Constitutional Law on Economic and Social Rights
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e13337	We now come to points 7 and 8 of the agenda. The debate on this is being held under one. We are going into the debate. President. — The debate is closed. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e13364	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Fundamental rights must not and cannot be substitutes for politics and therefore for simple laws. It would be an error to believe that the creation of a catalogue of fundamental social rights – and if it were still so well thought out – could undermine the effort to decide simple legal regulations in this House. But such a catalogue of fundamental and freedom rights, especially in the social field, contributes to securing what has been achieved and strengthens the social charter character of the constitution within society. It is blamable that there is no constitution in Europe that has as few fundamental social rights as Austrian. This is historically explainable: Our catalogue of fundamental rights dates back to 1862 and 1867 and in parts from 1920. But this does not excuse us that we are not in a position to ensure constitutionally the social order established after 1945. Ladies and gentlemen! The main difference between this state and its society after 1945 is that there is now a social network. And to secure that is the task of a federal constitution law that we have brought in. The idea behind it is not least that, for us, social-democratic modernism does not exist in the elimination of social rights and workers' rights. However, the social structure and the social institutions must also be safeguarded constitutionally. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to ask you – including our coalition partner – to consider once again this proposal, which has been negotiated for many years and which has been agreed between the social partners, but which forms part of the law. Come on. Please do not argue with the argument that we have arrived at a time when it is about reducing social rights in order to secure Austria's economic location! Please read the Portuguese Constitution: This is the constitution of a country with a fifth of the Austrian wage level, but in which there is a social law catalogue of more than 25 articles! There can and must be no contrast between modernity and fundamental social rights, the maintenance of workers' rights. In particular, I would like to ask the Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖAAB, to rethink this position! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In the same way, in my view, it would not only be a demonstrationist but a necessary legislative act of the Constitutional Legislator to make it certain and clear that exclusion, discrimination and discrimination of the rights of the disabled will in no way be possible. Ladies and gentlemen! I invite you to join this in our request to create a ban on discrimination against the disabled in the Austrian Constitution! We are bound by the Constitution!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e13416	The next speech is by Mr Dr. Feurstein. Please, honourable Member. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit will be displayed.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e13437	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Fundamental rights are undoubtedly an essential security for people in a state community. This cannot, however, be designed in such a way that one-sided priorities are set. If we approach such a project, it must be comprehensive and take all areas of life into account, including the family. This is a very important point, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This Constitutional Law on fundamental economic and social rights is not new. It is precisely five years ago, in January 1992, that matter has already been dealt with in the Council of Ministers and has been given a further discussion with the arguments I have now mentioned. We are not opposed to such rights for workers, for those working in the economy, for self-employed and unemployed. In particular, we are also in favour of ensuring that disabled people are not disadvantaged. I would like to say quite clearly and clearly that we support all the proposals and all the initiatives, if they are honestly meant, which are to protect disabled people in their rights. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But I wonder, How, for example, does this solve the problems of disabled people in transport, such as in the use of the Bundesbahn? How are the problems of people with disabilities solved when living? Is it now going to be possible to design the apartments with a level playing field? How will the problems of disabled people be solved in the labour market? In this context, I would also like to ask you the question: Who pays the majority in the compensation tax fund? – The Minister of Finance, because in the Federal area only very few jobs are offered to disabled people. [[Abg. May. Guggenberger: The countries are much worse!]] Mr Guggenberger! For me, it is still embarrassing that you and we have not succeeded in increasing this number of 400 jobs for disabled people provided for in the establishment plan! It is an urgent concern for us to tackle this problem again and again and to increase the number, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Klubobmann Kostelka! I see a certain amount of alibi treatment in the submission of this request by you. This is what I see as it is because you can talk to us about this issue, particularly about the area of the disabled. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: We can talk to you about this, but don't decide!]] We believe that this proposal should be extended and concrete, that it should be made clearer and clearer, as is the case with individual disabled organisations. In particular, however, we are concerned that we really reduce the obstacles to people with disabilities and that we are making a real contribution to solving the problems of the disabled.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e13503	Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Please, ladies and gentlemen. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e13524	Ladies and gentlemen! It is not often that I agree with Mr Feurstein. However, I am committed to it if he believes that Mr Kostelka's motion for a resolution on the legal improvement of the disabled by a change in the Constitution is an alibi. It is really hard to look into a human being, but I find this particularly difficult with Mr Klubobmann Kostelka. I have already reported here in this House how little he does in his area of influence for the disabled. There he allows discrimination to take place, and does nothing at all, although there are blatant maladministrations in his sphere of influence. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I would like to point out once again that Mr Kostelka is President of the Workers' Fisheries Association. There he allows an disabled person not to enter the territory of the association, although his family has been visiting this workers' fishing association for 20 years. There the disabled have been told: We are not a social office, and therefore you can no longer stay on the grounds of the Workers' Fisheries Association. Mr Kostelka! It is embarrassing that you do nothing in your sphere of influence against discrimination against the disabled, while They are highly stylised here in Parliament as anti-discriminationists. You have often made such requests. But in practice, nothing follows what would document a real change of mind in this direction! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to give you an example. Unfortunately, because of the limited speaking time, I am unable to quote more. I would like to show you from my own experience what discrimination really means. I have, as you probably know, a severely disabled child. I wanted to go to a Kiba cinema with my child. The hall is flat, so you could drive in with the wheelchair. All of a sudden, the artist came and said: You have to hurry, because today the managing director has service that doesn't want wheelchair drivers in the cinema! – I think it’s really bad and embarrassing if it’s the mood or appreciation of a managing director to determine whether a wheelchair driver is allowed or not. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Apart from the fact that most of the cinemas and event rooms for wheelchairs are not at all accessible because they can only be reached by stairs, as my example shows, it is not even where the conditions are given for them to be possible for a disabled person to participate in an event! Something else has happened in the area of the municipality of Vienna: There are summer baths of the municipality of Vienna, and my child likes to go, like all other children, to a public summer bath. In this case, it is the High Waiting Bath in the 19th century. District. My child, although a companion was there and the child had been swimming wings, was expelled from the basin! As a result, I wrote to the relevant Magistrates Department. From there I received the answer: There is the need to limit the area of residence in the basin in such a way that the pelvic floor can be reached at any time with the feet. And because a disabled person does not reach the pelvic floor with his feet, he must not stop in the pelvis despite the use of swimming wings and despite the presence of a companion, wherever all the other adults are. It's really a trick, a 19-year-old girl, an adult person with 50 kg, practically pointing into the children's pool just because you're not willing to change the bathing order! I therefore believe that it is essential to include this anti-discrimination provision in the Constitution. I would therefore ask all of you to help them to do so.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e13587	Mr Klubobmann Dr. Kostelka referred to an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e13612	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mrs Partik-Pablé has stated that the Austrian workers' fishermen are refusing the disabled to use their land. That's wrong. This is an area that serves exclusively for the management of a territory and is kept on the equipment that is not, at all, harmless. Therefore, it is prohibited for all persons – disabled or not disabled – who are non-functionaries to use this site. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That's not true!]] In addition, I can also correct you in a second point: They did not spread this untruth for the first time, but for the second time. But things don't get truer when you're always and again claimed by again and again.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e13661	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr Kier. Please, honourable Member. You have 8 minutes of speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e13690	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to express the position of the Liberal Group in the very short term. I mean, Both applications are disputable. The application for Article 7 contains enforceable components. It will be necessary to discuss whether this could not be a separate paragraph, but that is reserved for later deliberations. In any case, in this respect the intention is true. I just have one request: Let us try to turn to the real codification of fundamental rights and perhaps recall that some 220 years ago a sentence was made in a human rights declaration that was forgotten in us, namely in the American Declaration of Independence, namely that all people of their nature are equally free! If we bring these thoughts back to reality, then we will have no problem. I think that what Mr Kostelka has said about the Federal Constitutional Law on Economic and Social Rights is, unfortunately, declaratory. It is interesting to discuss these issues, but this cannot be done within the framework of the Constitution. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e13729	Mrs Haidlmayr has now been reported to speak. 10 minutes of voluntary time limit will be displayed.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e13750	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It is gratifying for people with disabilities and for us Greens that we finally feel that something is happening in the sense of people with disabilities. I am glad that we are now able to talk about discrimination, and that the word "discrimination of people with disabilities" is already being spoken. And I am even more pleased that one feels that it is really time for a provision to be included in the federal constitution in Austria, which prohibits discrimination against disabled people in the future. In my last speeches, I have repeatedly pointed to serious discrimination that exists in Austria and have shown this on the basis of a number of examples. – In recent months, I have received countless letters from disabled people who have told me about their discrimination. They will probably not consider it possible, but discrimination exists in all areas of life for disabled people! This is already happening, for example, if today a family wants to take out a bundle insurance, in which of course the disabled child should also be insured. In general, there is no risk insurance for disabled people! Insurance for disabled people is not possible! Disabled people are rejected from the roof because they are too risky. Therefore, for disabled people there is neither a private health insurance nor a holiday recovery insurance, nor an accident insurance or the like. This concerns all the insurance institutions we know. Also a life insurance cannot be completed by disabled people. However, not only does the insurance sector have major maladministrations in the area of people with disabilities, but this is also the case in the field of training. Last week I received the letter from a spasticly paralyzed woman who worked in a kindergarten and wanted to make an education as a kindergarten. – However, she must not do this training as a nurse because she cannot play guitar and flute because of her spastic paralysis! Although she is soloist in a choir and can of course sing accordingly, but she must not be a nurse, she cannot play guitar! – This shows that in Austria’s training regulations and education regulations are not based on what a person can do, but on the need for evidence to be able to exist in society. There has also been a considerable increase in violence against people with disabilities in recent years. I have here the letter of a 19-year-old young man who tells me that he has been spit on the tram and has been pressured by people to give up his money. 20 S. He gave, for he had no more with him. When he complained to the painter and told him what had happened in the tramway, he said to him: I'm glad they left now. I couldn't have helped you. – On the question of whether the young man had witnesses for this incident, he said that although it was seen that the people had turned around then, when it became serious, and therefore would not be a witness for him. He writes: I've been thinking about screaming. But I didn't do it, because otherwise all people believe that I am also crazy, just because I am disabled! In another area too, discrimination is still Austrian reality. I refer to the term "unvalued life" in this context. I mean disabled women who decide to have a child. I'm telling you about an experience from a gynecologist's waiting room. A blind woman waited in the ordination waiting for her to be examined. When the doctor opens the door and sees the pregnant blind woman sitting, he asks: Have you had a fruitwater test done yet? – The young woman was completely overwhelmed when she was addressed to the public in this way. In her embarrassment she immediately said: Yes, of course I did this investigation, although it had not been carried out. The doctor answered: Then it's good, because otherwise we should have done something. – The young woman was aware that this meant that if she had not done the water check, she would probably have had to have her child drifted off. Discrimination of people with disabilities is also evident in many ways in the case law. For example, in the Richter's Act, § 2 states that blind people are physically unable to exercise the Richter's office. For example, another law states that blind people must not be witnesses because they cannot take part in the wedding. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: Do you know Dr. Aigner?]] Yes. – The reason for this is that a blind person does not know what is happening, and therefore he must not be witnesses. Thank God for marrying blind people! Blind people must never sign a final order, even if it has been communicated orally. It is assumed that blind people cannot remember, for example, when an elderly person has said to whom he wants to inherit something. Therefore, blind people are excluded from it and may practically not sign a will as a witness. There is a disability of up to 200 percent for the blind. – It is inexplicable how it is that you have 200 percent disability, but the blind are classified in this way. I could show you a lot of events and read letters showing that there is widespread discrimination in Austria against people with disabilities. However, I am confident and hope that this Parliament will finally be able to create a law on equal treatment for the disabled and, in the first step, to include a constitutional provision in the federal constitution prohibiting discrimination against the disabled. It is only a constitutional provision that disabled people can be an essential legal pillar for us to finally be accepted and finally to recognise the importance of discrimination. We know that this constitutional provision will not abolish discrimination in Austria. But we know that a constitutional provision is an essential signal in the direction of preventing discrimination in the future. In Germany, there is already this constitutional provision, and the German disabled friends have told me that there is a huge progress for them personally, too, that there is this constitutional provision. Because this will also strengthen their personality and consciousness, not to be more people of second class, but to be truly perceived as part of society and to be determined. I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to do everything we can to find, perhaps in the first half of the year, before the summer break, a pass that will take place from 1. In July 1997, the non-discrimination of disabled people is set out in our federal constitution. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e13790	The next speech is by Mr Mag. Guggenberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e13811	Mr President. The Austrian Federal Constitution actually assigns the disabled to the countries as a task. Nevertheless, as a federal legislator, we have continuously improved the living conditions of disabled people in recent years – for example, when I think about the milestone care provision or the very essential steps towards school integration. On the other hand, philosophers such as Peter Singer or human geneticists have discussed the right to life and a new euthanasia policy in a terrifying, depressing way – discussions that have been believed to be once and for all in the past for 50 years. A few months ago, we discussed in this House a petition signed by 48 000 people in that country. In this petition it was said among other things: "We demand the constitutional equality of disabled people in all situations of life." This petition was signed by Federal Minister Mag. Viktor Klima. This petition was signed by Dr. Gottfried Feurstein. "I support this resolution permanently!", he explained. This petition was signed by the then Federal Minister Maria Rauch-Kallat. This petition was signed by Federal President Dr. Thomas Klestil, who literally said: "It is a matter of establishing a catalogue of fundamental rights, whose practical implementation can be requested legally by the disabled. I will be very committed to the practical implementation of these work on a constitutional definition." We Socialists, who have tabled this proposal, have guided us to the German catalogue of fundamental rights. "No one is allowed to be disadvantaged because of his disability," it says. If notable officials of this state, if well-known representatives of all the parties represented in this House and, last but not least, substantial representatives of our coalition partner have guaranteed themselves with letter and seals that there must be a constitutional definition, then that cannot be a problem. I should like to remind you all that only a few weeks ago, within the framework of the National Council's main committee, we called on the European Intergovernmental Conference to commit itself to a ban on discrimination under the European Treaties. This has been decided jointly by SPÖ, ÖVP, Liberals and Greens. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We cannot demand good conscience from the European Union, which we ourselves are not willing to fulfil in our own sphere of activity. In this sense, I would like to invite all of you very, very cordially, to agree on our request, on which we will of course be able to discuss and discuss its specific wording, in the trend. – I very much ask you to do so.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e13863	Mrs Onodi is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e13885	Mr President. High house! The fact that neither social rights nor constitutional anchorage as a social state principle are included in the Austrian Constitution is often perceived as a lack – although we do not need to hide the comparison with the other states on a simple legal basis with regard to social and labour law standards. The economic and social rights laid down in international conventions are, in spite of their partly forward-looking formulation, individual, subjective claims in essential state obligations and not individual claims. Moreover, this international agreement has a very strong dynamic element, namely the idea of development and the achievement of an economic and social standard. Ladies and gentlemen! The term "work" should also be protected by the Constitution. This also means that work is given a special value as a special form of human confirmation and activity. Here a personal image should be created, a personal picture of the work, regardless of whether it is carried out independently or without self-employed. However, work must also be seen in its entire social dimension and also as a means of developing the personality, ensuring the livelihood and the development of society. Ladies and gentlemen! Economic and social rights are in a strong context with the constitutionally guaranteed rights to professional and training freedom as well as freedom of employment and should therefore also be anchored accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e13923	No one has been reported in the word anymore. That concludes the debate. I accept Amendments Nos 342/A and 344/A to the Constitutional Committee. 9. Point First reading of Mr Dr Andreas Kholund Comrade's request 352/A concerning a Federal Constitutional Act on the Protection and Promotion of the Family and respect for Parental Rights 10. Point First reading of Mr Dr Andreas Kholund Comrade's request 353/A concerning a Federal Constitutional Act on Rural Development
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e13978	We shall now proceed to points 9 and 10 of the agenda, on which the debate will also be held under one. We are going into the debate. I call Mr Spindelegger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e14006	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We have tabled two requests, both of which are based on state objectives. First of all, I would like to mention briefly what we mean by a state objective in its legal effect. We believe that, in order to ensure that the protection and promotion of the family and respect for the rights of the parents, a state objective is to be understood as a kind of institutional guarantee of the State, a guarantee of the institution of the State which is intended to have two specific consequences. Episode number one: The State has a kind of increased obligation to pay attention through such formulations as it raises to the Federal Constitutional Act, which is intended to make it possible for it to implement a subject which it sets out in a Federal Constitutional Act. [[President Dr. Fischer is taking over the presidency again.]] The second very important legal consequence of such an institutional guarantee would be that the standards which result from such a constitutional provision have been constantly adapted in a dynamic way. Ladies and gentlemen! Why do we come to such a conclusion when it comes to anchoring the protection and promotion of marriage and family in the Constitution? – First of all: If we look at the basic legal level, which rights and obligations are actually assigned to a family, to the partners in a marriage, then we must say that they are very extensive and very long-term obligations. I am thinking, in this context, of the duty to assist in the marriage law. I'm thinking of the obsessive for the children. I wonder if, on a simple legal level, we impose a commitment on the spouse and the educator of a very long-term nature: Where, on the other hand, is there an obligation on the part of the legislator, the constitutional legislator, who should also impose an obligation on questions of marriage and family, namely a commitment towards institutional guarantee? Secondly, we have also committed ourselves to doing so internationally. Let us look at the rules on this: Articles 12 and 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights state that people of a married age have a right to marry and to establish a family. Or do we adopt the European Social Charter, which, in Article 16, makes a very clear statement in this respect. I can read it: The family as the basic unit of society has the right to adequate social, legal and economic protection in order to ensure its full development. Ladies and gentlemen! It is precisely the European Social Charter, which is often praised by this pult in this House. – But we have not taken over this in federal constitution. Thirdly, there can also be an example of the fact that there are some federal states which have already established such a state objective in their constitution: Tirol, Vorarlberg, Oberösterreich have preceded us in this regard, and there this effect also unfolds in the areas in which countries have responsibilities for the family. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to point out a reason: We have a very comprehensive list in Austria as regards constitutionally guaranteed fundamental rights. This is a level higher in legal quality than what we propose. But if today we have guaranteed the inviolability of domestic law, the freedom of choice of profession, the right to data protection constitutionally, I believe, "family" in the constitutional rank should not be limited to the fact that the Constitutional Court deals only with the principle of equality with family issues. We therefore propose such a state objective, especially for marriage and family, but, of course, for another very important area, namely rural development, and, of course, for local business services. Our aim is not to have in Austria an agricultural sector which is involved in industrial agricultural production and, on the other hand, to no longer have local industrial supplies, but to concentrate on huge shopping centres at the outskirts of the city. This is not our idea, and we would therefore like to see these areas regulated in a federal constitutional law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e14070	The next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Mertel. She's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e14091	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The members of the ÖVP and FPÖ have tabled identical requests in the text. Both are also in common that the reasoning does not allow for a more detailed interpretation of the text, for example what is understood as "the tasks of the partnership marriage"; it was also "partnership of marriage". Or how to interpret this wording: Men and women have the right to marry and start a family? – Together, wife/husband, wife/woman, man/husband? What is meant by this would also require a more detailed definition. You should clarify this, because this text is not as clear as you can see when you read the text through. Above all, you will remain guilty of what you understand as "natural parents' rights" and their "priority". We Socialists therefore consider these requests to be problematic for a number of reasons. Mr Spindelegger has already pointed out that the European Convention on Human Rights, which is in constitutional status in Austria, lays down the protection of the family in Article 8. According to the case-law of the European institutions, the family concept of Article 8 also includes non-marital families, i.e. communities of life, but also the community of mother/unmarital child, but also father/unmarital child. Article 8 thus explicitly protects single-parent families. Marriage and family are not necessarily directly linked under European legal order, since the term "family" also includes legal relations with immoral children, but also single-parent families. On the other hand, the ÖVP proposal, which takes the concept or the relationship between marriage and family more closely. The text shows that family is primarily to be understood as marriage. In my opinion, therefore, it conflicts with the broader family concept of Article 8 of the MRP, in which non-marital communities and single-parent families are involved. On the basis of these requests, the basic ÖVP programme, i.e. the party programme, is also cited and the view of marriage and family is presented. A significant difference to our view is that we do not understand "family" as the closest legal concept, but accept that the family is subject to structural change which is open to social change. We are based on the principle that every human being has the right to free the way in which he lives his life according to his own conviction. We define family as any form of continuing co-existence in a partnership and democratic way which offers solidarity, participation and protection to the individual member of this community. We Socialists refuse to create very specific family categories from the outset, especially when one category leads to discrimination against the others. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This would be the case if one continued to follow the idea of the application, namely the "priority of natural parental law". Since the request remains guilty of the more detailed explanation of what is to be understood – even the explanatory statement reveals nothing in this regard – one must assume that it should be quite clearly about genetic origin. The rules laid down in Article 1(1). In my opinion, 3 of the request includes existing legal regulations, contrary to the legal institution adoption, which has been modelled on genetic origin, but is also difficult to reconcile with simple legal regulations such as the ABGB – this has already been quoted by Mr Spindelegger. Obsessiveness is difficult to reconcile with the simple legal regulations of §§ 176 ff: withdrawal or restriction of care. The problem also seems to me to be Article 4 and the anchoring of the family compensation fund in the constitutional order. It should be noted here that the promotion of families is not only carried out through these only funds, but also through tax measures – already now – through benefits in kind, through the services of the countries and municipalities, through social security benefits and through social legislation. However, there are also concerns on the part of SPÖ regarding the application for a federal law on rural development. The objectives of this present proposal, namely to ensure participation in economic and social prosperity, are already to be read as a declaration of intent in the Agricultural Act 1992 § 1 Z 5. I know that this is a simple legal provision. The constitutional anchorage would therefore mean nothing but a professional group, namely farmers, to provide a constitutional income guarantee. If such a guarantee does not apply to workers, workers, mainly textile workers, and employees, then the question must be asked: Why exactly for this only professional group? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In the interests of meaningful development in agriculture, therefore, those objectives, as already set out in the Coalition Agreement, would be to implement into reality, in particular to introduce social criteria, base amounts and promotion limits. It is therefore simply about implementing and meeting the requirements of the Labour Convention towards environmental and social agricultural reform, and not about producing proposals with whatever substance.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e14179	I call Mrs Elfriede Madl. – The speaking time is programmed to 4 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e14203	Mr President. High house! I can already imagine, Mrs Mertel, that you have difficulties with the traditional definition of the word "family", because there is still the life form of the family, which includes man, woman and child, and the rather extraordinary form is still: Single parent with child, father or mother with child. It is already clear to me that you want to refuse to understand from your ideology because you want to see it on and for yourself completely different and also have it. That proves all the law decisions in the past. [[Accompaniment with the liberals as well as acclaim of the abg. Dr. Feurstein.]] But what surprises me very much is that precisely these two requests have come from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, who are talking about the protection and promotion of the family, but who in the past, with the agreement of the coalition partner, have done everything in their power to withdraw the support and protection of the family. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: That's not true at all!]] I only recall the many changes in the legislation relating to the load packs I and II. I just remember that, for example, it is much harder for a single parent to receive his family than for example both parents when they go to work. You have discovered this discrepancy, but you have not been so far, that you have changed this condition, even though we have put forward suggestions for the family division and the preference of a single parent to families where both parents work. But you did not agree to this. In particular, you are talking about protecting and promoting the family, where you have shortened the child allowance, where you have introduced the self-retaining of school leavers, where you have introduced a self-retaining of school books, where you have helped delete the birth allowance, where you have recently agreed to have more liberal opening hours without creating the necessary framework conditions for women who have a family. All of this, you have decided what has led to a huge burden slavery for families – and then you want to make a request that the protection and promotion of the family should even be enshrined in the Constitutional Law. – So this is really the over-driving of hypocrisy! In Article 4, you say that you want to see an independent fund constitutionally anchored in order to compensate for the extra burden on families in particular. – You already have a fund, it already exists, but you really do not stop the outsider’s purpose. I remember the school books. I would remind you of the free movement of students and the grants to the KOG. In the past, you of the ÖVP have decided laws that threaten families in a massive way that make it no longer easy for every young person to start a family – and on the other hand, go to the public and want a constitutional law to protect the family. That's the hypocrisy top! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The same applies also to your second request concerning the protection of agriculture and local services. This really only gives me a mild smile when such a thing comes from your group, where you decide laws that make many farmers lock up every day so much that the small shops must all be locked up and there is almost no local supply in many areas of Austria at all. And only now have again You have passed a law on opening hours, where you have said that you are protecting the local supplier through the local core regulation, but you know very well that the large shopping centres outside can also claim a core arrangement for themselves. So you have agreed to a law that is a hypocrisy. You have taken the last chance to exist to the near-supplier, and now you want to have a constitutional law in this regard. The second is agriculture. Before joining the EU, they told farmers to take advantage of their markets. Following EU accession, some farmers have exploited market niches to survive. What's the Chamber of Commerce doing? – She sends them the commercial authority to the neck, because there they say: No, that's not how it is! You can't just sell meat. You can't just sell bread. You can't just sell sausage. You must respect the rules of trade and make greater investments, just as every trader must. – And so these little niches died again for the small farm. But now to say that we have to protect rural areas, and that we also have a constitutional anchorage, is really typical of your group! That's hypocrisy length times width! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You of the ÖVP, which you have given your consent to the tax packages, are really the last to take advantage of any right of attorneyship for the families, for the farmers and for the near-suppliers.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e14259	Mrs Motter came to the floor with a speech time of 6 minutes. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e14280	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Madl, I no longer know myself: Are you now for the constitutional change, for the protection of the family and agriculture, or not? [[Abg. Madl: That that comes from the ÖVP, I have reproached!]] Okay, I take note of that – but why are you unable to submit your own application? Why do you have to accept this request, except for an intermediate, because you do not believe that the EIA is capable of implementing it? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] You have written down this request literally – but please, that is your problem! [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Mrs. Motter! This is telepathy!]] That's your problem, not mine. But I'm very surprised about it. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party and of the Freeman! I should also like to add the question as to what is in the application under Article 1(1). 2: "Men and women have the right to marry and to establish a family," says: Does that really mean woman/woman, man/man? I can adopt a child – and then I am a family? I believe that you are still guilty today, and not only in the Committee on External Economic Relations, but also in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Liberals and the Austrian People's Party! They know how we know the clear statistics that show that fewer and fewer people live in traditional family ties and want to live in the future. This has nothing to do with ideology, but is a fact. I therefore do not understand why the conservative side is still preventing our legal system from adapting to the changed society. Ladies and gentlemen! It is also a fact that in 1995 there were fewer marriages than divorces, and the forecast for new marriages is that 62 percent of marriages are held and 38 percent are divorced sooner or later. Ladies and gentlemen! We know of the variety of life forms that are not only in existence, but which are already being lived. These are facts, and those who close up these facts are unrealistic. We Liberals represent this reality. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] We therefore believe that there must be an extended family concept in the future and that it is therefore necessary not only to promote marriage but also to promote any permanent partnership and to be protected by society. We also know from the study on the Austrian family landscape that the father-mother-child-idylle – whether we want it or not – belongs more and more to the past. Every fifth family with children is a one-parent family, and precisely because of the existing social orientation on the ideal of the father-mother-child family, there are a number of disadvantages for one-parent families: less money, poorer apartments, less leisure time and so on. This fact concerns women in particular. Ladies and gentlemen! We should prevent this from happening, and I do not think that we are improving the conventional traditional family concept in the Constitution in this respect. I am therefore also convinced that neither a single marriage nor a single divorce will be prevented due to a constitutional acceptance of marriage and family. Mr Spindelegger! Since you are referring to those federal states in which this constitutional change on the protection of the family is already in the Constitution, I can tell you: It didn't change anything. In Vorarlberg more marriages are divorced than ever. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: But it's a sign, just like the disabled!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to join the words of the former family minister Sonja Moser – I quote: "If one wants to pursue successful family policy, it would not be helpful to the individual if one oversaw an ideological family concept." – This, ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People’s Party, should also be considered before making such demands as you have heard from your own ranks. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Finally, I would like to comment on the word-identical requests made by EIA and the liberals on the development of rural areas: We Liberals too want Austrian agriculture to remain a farmer in the future. It is also desirable for us that people in agriculture, including in the problem areas, can participate in the development of prosperity. However, we still believe that the inclusion of this ideology in the Constitution will not do anything. What we need instead is a progressive and courageous agricultural and economic policy. And to cooperate in such a thing, we Liberals are happy to be ready!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e14382	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. What time do you want to set? - Okay. [[Abg. Oillinger: The speaking time remains open!]]
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e14412	Thank you, Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning, it somehow looked forward to a continuation of these half-lusty events à la "clawing fect shoes": The FPÖ takes away a request from the ÖVP to bring it to Parliament. - How funny! If you look at this more precisely, you can see: It's not that funny at all. It is a matter of serious, very serious matters. . I don't want to make fun of it either, but you have to say, Mr Khol: What this request says is pure ideology. Mr Khol! Maybe we can agree on this: If you are interested in meeting certain objectives in the constitutional order with this survey, you should declare this clearly. If it is the purpose of a request to document that it is in our common interest to allow the state to confess and contribute to the establishment of reliable and lasting social relations on the basis of the constitutional status of certain family rights – as we always define them. Ladies and gentlemen! But when it comes to raising a certain institution, one among many, in the constitutional rank, namely the Institute of Marriage, and it is almost still a "natural basis" not only of 1990, but also of the year 2000 or possibly also of 2010, depending on how long this Constitution should guarantee, then I can only say: no. From: What does "naturally" mean, Mr. Khol? – Mrs Mertel has rightly pointed out that what you want to define as "natural law" is contrary to the rights which we have established at simple legal level, such as the right of adoption. But what is even more fundamental, Mr Khol: In societies, the absolute problem of natural parenthood and social paternity and motherhood is discussed everywhere. On the one hand, we cannot discuss the genetic technology and the economic need to force genetic technology, how you are doing it, and on the other hand we are hiding on the consequences of, for example, the use of genetic technology in the field of reproductive technologies and reproductive techniques! In this context, there is a problem: Even if we establish marriage and family here in Austria constitutionally as a natural basis, it is the fact that this ideology has long since ceased to be valid. Clearly, everywhere in the world, it has long won the ideology of social parenthood, social paternity and motherhood. And that's a real problem, I admit to you! Therefore, we should work seriously to deal with this problem so that we become aware of the consequences of it. However, in this request, Mr Khol, you are hiding on this problem. This problem is not referred to! Marriage, family and natural parental law are to be raised in the constitutional rank: Does this mean that the social parents have no longer a role to play in the event that there have been seed donors or ice donors, but that natural parents should be given priority? – You have to explain! Because that's a problem we're dealing with! You can't just wear ideological scams and believe that it's enough to lift up the institution of marriage in the style of the fifties as the only one who makes it to heaven, ladies and gentlemen! You try to put the institution of marriage and the family – you do not define what you want to mean as a family, except that you say that it is very closely connected to marriage – under a quargel crash, so that no air comes in and no smell penetrates outside. I would like to say to you: This is just as deadly for reliable, lasting relations as for the quargel. He too does not do well if he remains under such a fall! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: This is a horrific comparison!]] It may be cruel for you! Quargel, however, is not a horrific thing for himself! And I hope that this picture will help you, Mr Graf, to think something beyond what you actually intend to do. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: What smells about marriage?]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: What's bad about marriage?]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Can I still talk? – Ladies and gentlemen! They should focus on the purpose. What do we want to achieve? You asked for a target. Perhaps we could find ourselves on this point! It is about determining whether the state and society are willing to make lasting social relations possible. And it is exciting to allow lasting social relations in the face of a society that changes rapidly, which also has serious effects on families and marriages, and which threatens marriages in principle. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: That's why we wanted to put them under constitutional protection!]] It is not the inability of the spouses or the partners who live together, but society creates the problems by, for example, not providing the appropriate infrastructure such as childcare facilities. It is the society that does not provide the corresponding income, and it is the social stress that makes it impossible for parents, for example, to spend sufficient time with their children. If you were more serious about this issue, you would have to address the question of the reduction of working time and similar matters more seriously, go down to the depths and not just glorify an institution, Mr Graf. In this way you would be required! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: This is a Marxist approach: society is to blame for everything!]] Mr Graf, Member of the Commission. I can explain this to you, but it will not be enough time for that. I'd just like to tell you: Nothing hidden behind the Institute of Marriage. There's something that's not all right from the inside to the outside. Now I'm speaking to the quargel crash again: Because behind the marriage and the family, which are placed under the quargel crash and are not ventilated, there is also violence against women and violence against children, hiding high rates of divorce. Mrs Motter has already pointed this out. Behind this quargel crash, however, there is also a structural one – remember that! – non-respective of families. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: What you're saying is incredible!]] Mr Graf, Member of the Commission. You should be more careful! Consider only one indicator: the birth rate in Austria. Compare the birth rate in Austria with that in a country like Sweden. If the birth rate is an indicator of family-friendlyness, we are down below, but Sweden is in the front, because the birth rate in Sweden is much higher. Mr Graf, Member of the Commission. Don't come with me, 'cause you're back on scumbags! What's that supposed to do with? I should also like to give you an answer, Mr Graf? – This is certainly related to the much better infrastructural facilities! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: This has nothing to do with the Institute of Marriage!]] In Sweden, families and partnerships are supported in their problems with the care and organization of care, education and training, with the organization of care, with money and with everything else to be defined in relation to family and their purposes. If you were to take this view a little more seriously and if you were indeed to make a comparison at European level, you would have to come to the realization that other measures are necessary than simply raising the marriage or the family to the constitutional rank. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: No one says that this should be the sole measure!]] We must go into the depths of content. It is not enough to speak only of a "natural basis"! Ladies and gentlemen! This draft is immature. The Institute Marriage is not a natural institute, but a historical product. You should know exactly who you, I hope, have a little idea of history! There is no "natural marriage" and there is no "natural family form" either! Within the millenniums there are many forms of family that have developed differently. You should take the time to look at this! I mean, we have all forms of partnership and of family that exist in this country to respect and promote, not just one form of family. – The first. [[Congratulations on the Greens, on the Liberal Forum and on representatives of the SPÖ.]] Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, just from FPÖ and ÖVP: Mrs Motter has rightly pointed out that this paragraph. 2 leaves everything open. He leaves everything open! – I fully agree that men and women have the right to marry each other. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That's nice!]] However, this right should also apply to the marriage of men with men and women with women. I totally agree with that! But I'm telling you: The language used here is not as marginal as your course of action in reality. That's your problem: You cannot put it to the fore and put it in a provision that you actually only want men and women to be able to marry each other exclusively. The language is not as marginal as certain parties here in Austria! [[Congratulations on the Greens, on the Liberal Forum and on representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You have nothing to do with the Institute's marriage anyway! Then why do you want them to get married?]] Ladies and gentlemen! As far as Mrs Mertel is concerned, I am quite prepared to discuss the question of the family compensation fund. – Mrs Mertel! You're right: The Family Allowance Fund does not organise family support as a whole. However, it is interesting to note how this family compensation fund has been eliminated over the years, how funds have been removed and attempts have been made to dry up or at least freeze family support through reductions in contributions, lastly also through tax reductions in the amount of funds, to dry out this family tax compensation fund. It would therefore make sense to think about how we could better deal with this problem! Whether it is necessary to carry out a constitutional survey, which is then believed to have already solved the problem, is another question. But the problem is too serious to simply reject or say: The funds are not sufficient. There is in this context the massive problem that over the years there has been a real lack of input into this pot. Something is incomprehensible to me, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP: You are in the government that you would have had the opportunity to prevent all these funds from being depleted from the Family Allowance Fund over the last few years! You would have had the opportunity – because you were in the government – to prevent the reduction of contributions. You would have had the opportunity to avoid the tax reductions in the budget injections to this fund! – You have not prevented all of this – and that speaks volumes about how "severe" you take this matter!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e14613	The next speaker is Mrs Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e14634	Mr President. High house! Today, Federal Minister Dr. Scholten recommended that we take care of each other more gently. – I will therefore address my previous speakers as gently as possible. Mrs. Madl! If you place self-hold and opening hours on the one hand against a government target on the other, then there can never be a balance! They know very well that self-retaining has led to a sense of cost and that these restraints were necessary in order to restore our state budget and also to bring a better awareness of the benefits in kind to our families and to our people, and that they have already achieved cost savings. The resulting savings are characterised by self-initiatives, and that is exactly what we need for our people: We want to give people their skills back and let them be proud of what they can achieve. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mrs. Motter! If you take a sentence out of a text, this can only lead to a false impression! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Mother.]] Mr. Ollinger! I don't want anything to do with your retorts and the so-called natural families! [[Abg. Oellinger: This is your request!]] I am pleading for exactly what has been common to us people for thousands of years and what is of great importance to our survival. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In all our current documents, the justification for our state-of-the-art determination is always emphasized accordingly. Marriage and family as the closest personal communities are the place in which people's lives are first and foremost anchored. It forms the basis of a free society. That is why we want to support, strengthen and promote them! The positive value of family has never changed over the decades. Around three quarters of the Austrians today feel that they need a family to be happy. In addition to professional and material satisfaction, partner and family satisfaction is one of the key factors for determining the overall quality of life of the people of Austria. My party does not wait until future research and developments show whether the development is going in the direction that two or more life forms exist alongside each other than types, or whether life forms alternate in a sequence over the course of the life cycle. Instead, the ÖVP seeks to establish the necessary protection measures and framework conditions as a state objective! Once again, I would like to say that children need fathers and mothers and around them, stability and affection to be able to pass these values on to future generations. Furthermore, married men have a much better health status than singles. [[Cheerfulness as well as calls and countercalls at the ÖVP and the liberals.]] Love and security are not only food for the soul, but obviously also good for the body. According to a United Nations list, 65 out of 140 states are related to family or marriage in this respect. It should be noted that certain countries have no actual constitution, such as the United Kingdom or Israel. For Europe, however, the situation presents itself as follows: 15 Western European and nine Eastern European states mention family and marriage in the Constitution. Several constitutions consider the social aspects of the family to be higher than their function as the basis of society. The variants are diverse, but this ideology exists and is anchored in many constitutions. Based on the sociological fact that for the vast majority of adults and young people living in a family and in a partnership based on love and trust, which is also a prerequisite for the positive development of children, I am looking for you to reconsider what family means in a solid anchorage.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e14700	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is therefore closed. Applications 352/A and 353/A shall be allocated to the Constitutional Committee. 11th@item: inlistbox Point First reading of the motion for a resolution (Doc. 355/A) by Mr Mag. Johann Ewald Stadlerand comrades concerning a Federal Constitutional Law on the Protection and Promotion of the Family and the Respect of Parent Law 12. Point First reading of the motion for a resolution (Doc. 356/A) by Mr Mag. Johann Ewald Stadlerand comrades concerning a Federal Constitutional Act on Rural Development
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e14752	We are now negotiating points 11 and 12 of the agenda. We are going into the debate. Member of the Commission. Reichhold's sick. . I therefore give the floor to Mr Koller on the grounds of the request. The speaking time is 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e14779	High house! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Very briefly on the request concerning rural development: Rural areas have a unique cultural and social structure. They are characterized by the wide variety of landscaped forests, agricultural areas, intact natural areas, villages and small cities. Agriculture is an important area in which the population and the environment come into contact with each other. The farmers are responsible as administrators of numerous resources in rural areas. – We do not want industrialized agriculture, but we want to receive our rural family farms! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! A Federal Constitutional Act on Rural Development is important and necessary, but it cannot replace the existing Agricultural Act. Details of agriculture must be dealt with by separate applications in the Committee on Agriculture and the Agriculture Act. Both applications, with regard to the protection and promotion of the family and the development of rural areas, should be dealt with with with with with with with with with with with with a sense of mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e14824	I call Mr Kampichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e14845	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! My previous speakers, Dr. Spindelegger and Mrs. Dr. Moser, have already given a very detailed opinion on Agenda items 9 and 10 on these proposals. I would like to point out that we now have practically the same matter for treatment. A request from the Austrian Freedom Party is word identical to ours. For me, this is again proof of the lack of ideas of this party that it has practically written off our request in words. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, God is not the only action in this direction. We must constantly experience that the freedom ideas of the ÖVP family party are copying and, without any particular effort, introducing them as our own initiatives. While we, as a responsible party, must work out our ideas in a serious way and, above all, ensure the appropriate funding, the opposition will not be able to implement these things either. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Allow me to stop you for a few minutes, because I would like to address the remarks made by some of my previous speakers. Mrs Mertel expressed great concern. I know that these are ideologically well-founded. I don't want to change your ideology. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: This is the opposite: with us you always talk about ideology, but at the ÖVP not!]] But I can tell you that we are not talking about discrimination against any community of life. We only want the protection of the constitution for the family as the smallest and most important cell of our society, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Oellinger! We don't want a "Quargel crash" for the family either. On the contrary: We need fresh air for our families so they can live and exist. Mrs. Mother! Even if you still say so often that the family is a run-out model, that won't be more true! You won't be able to convince everyone. Rather, the opposite is the case: There is a very, very great acceptance for the life form family. Therefore, the Austrian People's Party wants to work for this broad population and ensure the protection of the family. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Why should the family be protected by the Constitution? – We have experienced it: Recent socio-political developments have caused the family to... [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: As a reason, you will now call the Episcopal Conference!]] We are not drawing the Bishops' Conference to the ground, Mrs Mertel, but rather the reality! Recent socio-political developments have caused families to be in trouble. These families would need the appropriate signals very urgently. In addition, the families – in this respect I agree with colleagues Ollinger – need more space through more family-friendly working time models. Thankfully, there are already many good examples in this direction. There are many farms that are exemplary in this context. I would particularly like to highlight the action taken by our colleague, Ridi Steibl, in this regard, which is particularly prestigious in family-friendly models. Ladies and gentlemen! It turns out that the companies which are awarded the award as family-friendly are successful on the market at the same time. So family kindness also means success. I hope that very many businesses will follow this good example! There is much to do in the family policy area. A word to include the family in tax law: There has been a great deal of progress in this area too. And, of course, constitutional protection would be a very important signal. We thank God a dedicated family minister with a very good enforcement capacity that has the trust of the families of Austria. Thank you for that!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e14917	No one is reported in the word anymore. I accept Amendments Nos 355/A and 356/A to the Constitutional Committee. That's what we've done with the agenda. Vote on a request for a deadline
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e14950	We shall now proceed to the vote on the request, the Constitutional Committee for Reporting on Amendment 349/A by the Green Group, on the possibility of splitting votes in the elections in the country. ==References====External links== I should like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this deadline request for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-22-020-XX-NRSITZ-00057_d7e14981	I am still announcing that applications 380/A to 382/A and requests 1830/J to 1861/J have been received. The next meeting will take place tomorrow at 9 a.m. The agenda shall be distributed in writing and Question Time shall be held at the beginning of this meeting. The sitting is closed.
