ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e3424	Ladies and gentlemen! I may ask you to take the seats and open the 102. National Council meeting for today, 10. ==References====External links== I can remind you that the 10. It is also the "Day of Human Rights" that 49 years ago the General Declaration of Human Rights was decided that today a five-party committee would be set up, preparing for the 50. The anniversary of the "Day of Human Rights" will be held next year, and we will pay great attention to this work. The minutes of the meeting, held on 19 and 19 March, were published in the Official Journal of the European Communities. November has remained up-to-date and unrestrained. As an obstacle to today's sitting, MEPs are Mag. Schweitzer, Wurmitzer and Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e3461	With regard to the negotiating items which have been obtained and their allocation, I refer to the written communication in the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e3825	Before entering the agenda, I would like to say that the current hour envisaged for this week of the sitting, due to an agreement at the Presidential Conference, is exceptional and without prejudice for Thursday, 11. It shall be fixed at 9 a.m. on December 1997. We may perhaps create a provision in the Rules of Procedure which will allow more flexibility in this context, which is obviously necessary in practice. Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e3849	The green club has – and I may announce this too – in accordance with § 93 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure requested urgent consideration of the written question 3388/J tabled before the entry into the agenda by Mr Ollinger and Mr Comrades to Mr Bundeskanzler on deficits in Austrian labour market and employment policy. I am looking forward to calling for this urgent request at 3 p.m. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e3874	I have the proposal to summarise the debate on points 7 to 12 of today's agenda. Is there any objection? - That's not the case. There is therefore a debate on points 7 to 12 of today's agenda. I'm going to the agenda now. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e3901	Consensus on the duration and organisation of today's agenda debates was reached in the presidential conference as follows: A day-block speaking time of 8 "Vienna hours" was envisaged, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ 120 minutes, ÖVP 112 minutes, Free 104 minutes, Liberal Forum 72 minutes, Green 72 minutes. Is there any objection to this proposal? - That's not the case. The House has therefore decided on this proposal. 1. Point Report and request of the Constitutional Committee on the draft Constitutional Act on the Empowerment of the Austrian Municipal Federation and the Austrian Urban Federation (974 of the Supplements) (Second reading)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e3934	We're coming to the 1st. Agenda item. A proposal on oral reporting is not before me, so we are immediately going to discuss this proposal at second reading. First of all, Mr Magistrate. Stadler. Talk time limit: 20 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e3964	Mr President. High house! The draft law on debate and negotiation is aimed at the legal basis for the conclusion of a State Treaty for the Austrian Municipal Federation and the Austrian Municipal Government. The background is the creation of a consultation mechanism which is supposed to be necessary in order to achieve the Maastricht criteria and to be able to comply with them permanently. For this purpose, the existing legal instruments would not be sufficient. Mr President. I am glad that you took the last debate on this subject, which was the last constitutional debate to have a brake on the smaller government partner, because the interventions in parliamentarianism are so serious that your moderate influence in your capacity as President of this House was more than necessary. I am also pleased that Mr Neisser, the third president, sees things as different from his own group. It is also up to the second President to pay particular attention to the rights of the House and not to bow to the wishes of a political group. Ladies and gentlemen! The existing assessment procedure with regard to the impact of laws, in particular the financial impact, is fully sufficient to ensure the necessary information flows from the federal government to the countries. There are opposition rights of the Federal Government to the laws of the countries – this also ensures that there can be no burden on a local authority by the other local authorities. There is a country representation in this House, namely the Federal Council, which would have the task – I would stress – of preventing the countries from being burdened by the legislative body of the National Council in order to ensure that the rights of the countries, in particular the financial rights of the countries, are respected. [[Abg. Haigermoser: "Hätte"!]] Ladies and gentlemen! There are, in fact, sufficient rules to ensure that costs, cost transparency and cost discipline take place. It was significant that in the hearing of the Subcommittee of the Constitutional Committee, all experts, well-known experts, well-known representatives of Austrian law, constitutional doctrine and constitutional theory, rejected this draft, including, and more specifically, it. In connection with this bill, Professor Perenthaler said that she was simply a disaster. – Ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People’s Party! Professor Pernthaler is someone who is not so far from you who understands the concerns of federalism; he is the head of the Institute of Federalism Research, borne by the federal states of Salzburg, Tirol and Vorarlberg. He said that the path that is underway was simply a disaster. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The objections of Professor Brno – a former member of the ÖVP, later representatives of the Liberal Forum – were of the finest. He said: The present draft law is the most damaging to the democratic building principle of the Federal Constitution because a delegation of constitutional law production to executive bodies is taking place. – None of those present at the meeting of the Subcommittee or also of the Constitutional Committee were able to address this objection by an excellent constitutional lawyer. The principle of democratic construction of our federal constitution is essentially being incorporated into the principle of parliamentary construction. The main objection was that the influence of enforcement bodies on the course of legislation is incompatible with our constitutional structures. Nor is there a parliamentary responsibility of the representatives of the Austrian Municipal Federation and the Austrian Municipal Government towards general representative bodies, as it provides for our constitutional system. In addition, Professor Brno has shown that the regulation proposed represents a significant and deep intervention in the non-violent principle of our federal constitution; also in the federal principle of our federal constitution, ladies and gentlemen. The rule that constitutional law can be changed by simple majority at country level in the future shows the abuse of this coalition with the federal constitution. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It's about a "Lex Vienna" and a "Lex Carinthia". In these two federal states, red and black no longer have the majority required for constitutional laws and must fear to be voted on by the opposition on constitutional issues, so that the first step is to leave the basic legal production quo for constitutional law, namely the two-thirds majority, and also to the simple majority in constitutional law. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! You have repeatedly pointed out with quite legitimate pride that you are concerned about the principles of our constitution and the principles of our fundamental rights, which are democratically written. Why you now surrender to the Austrian People's Party, which wants this for transparent reasons, and sacrifice these principles, although even your own President has warned of the way in which he is to be committed, in accordance with well-known constitutional judges, I am sluggish. Just for the sake of coalition peace, you shouldn't do that. The Constitution should not be trampled with feet just because Mr. Khol and a few heads of state want it! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That is not the way to deal with our constitution. In particular, there should not be special provisions for two federal states in which one can no longer help one another to the constitutional majority. Ladies and gentlemen! There is also a serious objection from science, which reaches the rule of law: The change in the situation of competence in the state by means of State agreements is completely unacceptable, according to the permanent jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court! The Constitutional Court has clearly stated that the competence situation between the Federal Government and countries cannot be changed by means of State agreements. But it is precisely this path that is now to be taken. Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It is of no use that you have observed that this is, in fact, a new form of the State Treaties, a Quasi Article 15b Treaty. In the end, it does not change the fact that a member state contract, which also includes local authorities as a contractual partner, which does not in itself have this quality of state contract, postpones the competence situation between the federal government and countries – this time at the expense of the federal government. Ladies and gentlemen! We must be against the fact that we are moving responsibility as financial regulators to the national conference, to the national finance conference or to any consultation mechanism. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In this context, a look at the coalition fence would be necessary to see that there is an incredibly bad way to deal with the federal constitution. I consider the delegation of federal constitutional powers to the consultation bodies to be unbearable. I am in line with this view, in accordance with well-known representatives of Austrian law, who warn against this path. They warned against this because of transparent coalitionary reasons, namely to involve the local authorities in a process which is founded with Maastricht but which ultimately has quite different backgrounds to go through the parliamentary path. I would say the following to you today: If this proposal is decided, it is the beginning of the discussion on the abolition of the Federal Council. For if that is the future way of federal legislation, the safeguarding of the rights of the countries and the communities, then we no longer need the Federal Council, then we can send the 66 representatives of the Federal Council home! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We then need no more pensions and no more pensions, the Federal Council can then be dissolved. If this regulation is adopted, then the Federal Council is now for the Katz, Mr Kostelka. He is then only there to provide for a few secretaries, but has no competence because you, together with the Austrian People's Party, are taking a completely different path by which the Constitution is passing by, which is in a sustainable way damaging our constitutional culture!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e4037	The next speaker is Mr Kostelka. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e4059	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In Europe, such a thing develops like a new spirit of one another. In France, a process of decentralisation of administration, but also self-determination is under way. In the UK, country parliaments are established. The European Union has become aware of the principle of subsidiarity in the Maastricht Treaty, and it has been strengthened and strengthened again by the Treaty of Amsterdam, in which additional processes can be found in this direction. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In Austria too, there is a need for a new partnership, because the relationship between the federal government, the countries and the local authorities, particularly in relation to financial matters, requires this. The relationship of trust between the federal, state and local authorities needs to be strengthened. In the past several pages have obviously committed sins which have led to the fact that results from financial settlement negotiations are no longer implemented to the extent that they have always been the case in the past. Ladies and gentlemen! From my point of view, it is especially necessary for one to finally start talking about numbers; openly and honestly about numbers as consequences of what legislative acts in each case follow. It was very often - and this must be admitted with a certain degree of guilt - that we did not examine sufficiently the consequences of legal decisions in financial terms. The financial constitution seems to provide a clear system, namely the rule that the person must bear the costs actually incurred for the execution of the provision. This regulation, however, means that, when it appears in the new federal law paper, it is very often clear that the budget is to be re-ordered if the legislation has brought about a change in the budgets. This dissatisfying situation will be overcome by a consultation mechanism. There is a reversal in accordance with § 2 of the Financial Constitution Act, which, as a result of this non-accorded, non-coordinated legal regulations, means that the local authority has to bear the costs for the other local authorities – that does not always have to be the countries, it may also be the municipalities or the federal government – which has adopted the statutory regulation. Ladies and gentlemen! For good reasons, we have made profound changes to the Government's proposal, for reasons which need to be found in the need for democracy to fully respect the legislator. Mr Stadler! They shed crocodile tears here. We will take a decision today in second reading, but not in third reading. We do not only refrain from a legislative decision which deals with the federal constitution itself, but also the decision of the Article 15a Treaty, i.e. the agreement itself, because we will still have to discuss it - as agreed - at the beginning of the next year in the Constitutional Committee. [[Abg. May. Stadler: 15b!]] In this context, therefore, I am right, Mr Stadler, to decide on this Treaty, which is similar to Article 15a, in a second phase and to establish the constitutional basis for the first time. However, this constitutional basis will not be finally adopted today, but it will only be the case if the agreement with the countries has been comprehensively discussed. But today it is already possible to say that in this procedure, as has been presented to us, there will be profound changes, amendments to ensure that consultation will take place only with parliamentarians in the consultation committees. In addition – and this is the decisive thing for me – an amendment to this agreement will ensure that there is no consultation mechanism in the case of parliamentary amendments, that whenever Parliament amends it will automatically be reversed in accordance with the Financial Constitutional Act. Consequently, consultation in the legislative process cannot at all take place at all. Ladies and gentlemen! The constitutional concerns of Professor Brno have undoubtedly been covered in this context. A discussion which, in order to become effective, requires a legislative decision in the National Council is not an intervention in legislative rights of the National Council, nor is it of the Land Days. In addition, I can also make a positive contribution to this regulation, namely that we have been spared, which in the past has always led to very serious difficulties, namely that the countries have only begun to take up the discussion against regulations which they have, in some cases, also had factual objections, when the review procedure has been over for a long time. In few cases, after a decision of the Council of Ministers had already been taken in the knowledge of the countries, a discussion with the countries on the initiative of the countries could only be started once the Committee's deliberations had been completed, and in some cases there was even the particularly unsatisfactory situation that the discussion of rules which the countries did not want to take part in or in which they had quite legitimate objections took place only between the date of the decision in the National Council and that in the Federal Council. This will be avoided in the future by a time and content order of the talks. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, let me say a few words about the state reform itself. I am convinced that in 1994 we simply and simply took too short a step, in particular in two contexts: on the one hand, in connection with the adjustment of competence. The fragmentation of responsibilities between the federal government and countries is currently absolutely unsatisfactory. It is outdated, namely from 1925, and it has also come to such an atomization that a reorganisation is sufficient, necessary, even necessary, due to political events and discussions over the last 70 years. After discussion in my group, I made a public proposal to reduce competence from 177 to 17. In this context, as in many other states, there is a competitive legislation, but under the command of harmonisation, which leads to the enforcement of federal law where there is a competing legislation. A second area, however, seems to have to be re-regulated in relation to the Federal Government and countries, and that is the area of administrative procedures. I believe that there must be a concentration of administrative procedures, not only in the interests of the citizens who have a right to short and, above all, related procedures. In a matter, citizens should not seek five or six different decisions, but rather a notice concerning the issue of a complex, such as a building issue. However, such concentration of proceedings and procedural reform will also require a reform of the authorities, and I hope that this proposal will be discussed in the foreseeable future and implemented accordingly. Ladies and gentlemen! He is proof that in the federal reform we must not assume that federalism is a synonym for endurance in tradition. Subsidiarity is a very dynamic concept, and we feel committed to this concept!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e4098	The next speaker is Mr Dr Kier. He's got the floor. - Same time of speech.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e4120	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would like to make a few comments on the matter here, the so-called consultation mechanism. In the Committee's discussions, we have heard very clearly the intentions, and they have been partly debated. It seems to be for the countries that they are behind the discussion: Whoever buys, pay! – At first glance, this is not impossible, but the countries are ignoring something, and I would like to say it clearly from this point of view: As true as it may be from their point of view that the one who buys, so true is the saying in its proper order, namely: Whoever pays, make it! If the countries do not understand that by what they now seem to want to get out of their way, they are actually initiating an enumeration of their de facto skills, I am sorry. If that's what I want, I'm right, and I wanted to say it clearly from this point of view. For anyone who only looks at his wallet, but at the same time wants to be a local authority, a country day or a head of state, and does not understand that responsibility also means taking part in the implementation of the performance, has a different access than someone who is willing to take full responsibility. I would say that the Confederation will have to do so if the countries want to take responsibility by using the consultation mechanism, under the pretext: Otherwise it would also have to be paid to prevent something. Then: Nearly all taxes are collected by the Federation. This is always just a question of financial compensation, and it should be fair, but to make it a permanent discussion, we think, is missing. With regard to the proposal on which it relates, I am deliberately referring to my previous speakers, both to colleagues Stadler and to colleagues Kostelka. Professor Brno, my colleague and countryman at the Liberal Forum in Styria, has raised this point as an expert in the Committee. There are some serious inconsistencies contained in this law. The most difficult of all is that you provide for national constitutional law to be achieved by a simple majority. That, we think liberals, is on the one hand a serious intervention and, on the other hand, an apparent legislation of convenience. They want this because, in some federal states, you seem to fear that the constitutional majority will not achieve what is meant to happen. I'll tell you: This is such a serious mistake that it is only this point that makes it almost impossible to agree to this law. Only for reasons of convenience to declare the constitutions of the countries in a very specific point in a federal constitution law for any reason that I think is missing. A second point that really bothers us is: The Austrian Town Association and the Austrian Municipal Association are as valuable and important as they are, and they also occur in one place in the federal constitution, but they are voluntary mergers. These voluntary mergers are now to be lifted by the federal constitution into the rank of contracting partners who can conclude contracts for the municipalities whether or not the municipalities wish to do so. We were of the opinion that this is unsymmetrical, and we therefore demanded that the individual communities should also be able to go to the Constitutional Court if an agreement is subsequently reached which appears to be in need of a single community. But that's not planned. Again, only the municipal government and the municipal government can call on the Constitutional Court. If you deal with community autonomy in this form, you will not find us Liberals at your side. The whole thing seems to me to be legislative in this respect too, because what you are doing here are Quasi-15a contracts. We have discussed this with the experts in committee for a long time. There are not 15a-B-VG contracts, but Quasi-15a-B-VG contracts. The appeals you grant, the verification possibilities, i.e. the application legitimacy, expressly refers to Article 138(1). 1 B-VG. However, this article only regulates 15a contracts and not what you decide again. That is, you're actually making a "runway" that's empty. That is why I think it will be very good if only a second reading takes place today, because perhaps some reflection will come up until the third reading. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e4187	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Khol. Voluntary speaking time: 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e4208	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I have heard several arguments so far, but everyone has talked about the core question. In Austria we have a certain structure of administration in the country since 1920, the federal states, the local authorities, the municipalities. We have a hypertrophic branch in the administrations, and it is high time to introduce a modern division through a state reform in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The longest journey starts with a small step. The law we decide today is the first small step on a long journey. What we're doing today is this: We create our own constitutional basis for the conclusion of agreements between the countries and the municipalities with the Federal Government. That's what it's all about. There you can now rabulist around and say that it's bad, and ask if it's 15a or 15b. Ladies and gentlemen! It is so simple federal, state and local authorities should be able to conclude a public contract. [[Abg. May. Stadler: It's not about that!]] You need that, especially the communities need it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The fact that the countries are blaming the covenant is that the federal government is constantly driving the countries into the pocket and taking the money out of them without asking them, the municipalities are accusing the countries. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] That was an old principle of German federalism. The Bayern were always incredibly federalistic towards Bonn and have enslaved their communities according to the tradition of Count Montgelas; Austrian analogies are strange to me. The communities must have their rights, the countries must have their rights, and we are creating the basis for that. It's not about much more! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] On the basis of this Constitutional Act, a contract is to be concluded which regulates the financial flows and ensures the financial strength of the municipalities and the countries between the five years of the respective closure of a financial compensation. It's a small thing in itself, but it's important: Every five years, the Federal Government, the Länder and the Communities meet as financial equalizers, see what revenue comes into the state stopper, which tasks the individual local authorities have, and then distribute the resources from the tax revenue to the municipalities, to the federal government and to the countries. This takes place every five years. Everyone gets into the negotiations in a sluggish way, and after half a year, everyone is going to be happy. The only problem is that in the last five years such financial flows have not been regulated in the past and the federal government has been able to pass laws which meant that the countries, without getting money, had to pay for them. That could be hundreds of millions of schilling. The same was true for the countries that drove the communities into the bag. With a consultation mechanism – a terrible misconception – with this treaty between the three pillars of our community, it will be so in the future that the one who decides a law, that is, the covenant by us for example, will also pay for it, unless a different agreement has been reached before. That is right, that corresponds to the stability rate of this government, and that is also honest and fair. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The clubman of the Freeman spoke to Professor Pernthaler, an emminent state law teacher. I can calm down in this regard: Professor Pernthaler had great objections to the fact that even at the time that the federal laws were already in this House or state laws in the country parliaments, the countries or the municipalities could, as it were, have pressed and said the stop button: What is in the country day cannot be decided until we do not agree!, or: What is in the National Council cannot be decided until it has been consulted! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] We've changed that. In the future, this whole mechanism will only shape the sphere until the decision of a government template is taken. [[Abg. May. Stadler: His objection refers to the simple quorum!]] The second point, which is also very important in this context, is that we finally come to estimates of the costs incurred by legislation. It is always difficult for us national councillors. We get bill drafts from the Federal Government, in which there is a cover – very worthy – on which says: EU conformity given, competence there and there, costs. If the Minister and the Government want the law to go through, there is: Insignificant costs, or: Costs in the first year an "A-force" (transition), two "B-forces" and three "arbitrary forces", in the second year already less, and in the third year it costs nothing more. If you look after what the laws actually cost, then you can see that there are often three - digit million amounts coming out. It is therefore right that the Federal Government, the Länder and the Communities should become aware of what a law costs the individual local authorities. The Minister of Federalism, Minister for Administrative Reform Jürgen Weiss, has commissioned an extensive work in the years of his ministry, which has appeared under the title "What costs a law". It is a shame that it has not yet become a thing of it. When one recently asked the Federal Chancellery if one could have some excess copies, we were told that these copies had been fed to the waste paper recycling. – Well, the text is preserved, and because of this text, the cost estimates are now set by a Cabinet Directive and negotiated with the Federal Government and countries. This is a second important step. I said at the beginning of my speech that the state reform is absolutely necessary. I believe that in the course of the one and a half years up to the elections we still have before us, we must use our power of design in order to take the next steps deliberately. The next step must be to complete the consultation mechanism over the next 12 weeks and submit it to the National Council. The next step must be to decide on the Stability Pact between the federal, state and local authorities. This means that the deficits in the households of the municipalities, the countries and the federal government are limited and controlled. This is in the sense of the People's Party as a party that pursues a financial stability course. The next step is the implementation of the Perchtoldsdorf Agreement, i.e. the transfer of competences to countries and the establishment of a country's administrative jurisdiction. If we still link this with the elimination of the dual-track administration in the countries, we have managed a state reform which we are starting today with a modest but important step.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e4304	The next speaker is Mr Van der Bellen. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e4326	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Khol, you said that was the first step, although modest, to the state reform. – In any case, it is modest, but I do not know whether the state reform is starting well if the federal government intervenes in the constitutional rights of the countries, and whether it corresponds specifically to your tradition, the People's Party, on federalism issues. In any case, the Greens do not agree. Secondly, They said that today it was "only" about the empowerments of the Austrian Municipal Federation and the Austrian Urban Federation. - It would be nice. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The Land and the Federal!]] Countries and Confederation. But it is not just about these empowerments, but the draft law goes far beyond that in spite of its title. This is an unsituation which I constantly complain here in the House that, under some title, very different things will be sold. I'll be right back to that. Mr Khol! By way of derogation from Article 1(1), point (b) and (c) of Article 1(1). 1 wouldn't mind. This contains exactly what you've done. Article 1(1) 2 is a bit more problematic, because only costs are mentioned. Here we have the usual terminology problems: In the Federal Budget Law or in the Rules of Procedure, part of "expenditure", of "financial impact" – at least in terms of other things – is the speech that is not identical to "costs". What the consultation mechanism actually means, we will see first. There is already the x-te variant of that. I agree with you that some of the worst things have now been cleared out. After the first drafts, the federal parliamentary procedure would have been completely put on the head. I also agree with you that the additional information to be generated is to be welcomed in principle. The preliminary work in the Ministry of Finance has been in progress for a long time. However, with your criticism of the front page, Mr Khol, I thought that this was a worthy speech for an opposition politician, because during the last ten years the government proposals have still been made by SPÖ and ÖVP. The incomplete, partly incomprehensible covers are 50 percent in your responsibility. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: I always beat that! At the government meetings, I always encourage that!]] To Abs. 3 of Article 1: There the inner Austrian Stability Pact is cut. There is a problem with Article 104c of the EC Treaty, but nothing is known about this internal Austrian Stability Pact. With regard to the consultation mechanism, we have seen various drafts. I am afraid that the federal government is going into an unpleasant starting position, since it tends to exercise rights in favour of the countries and communities through the consultation mechanism, but the question remains whether this does not get its own dynamic, the federal government gives rights which it does not return through the Stability Pact. These questions are peanuts from today's point of view. At the end of the day, the core is Article 2, which concerns the intervention into the constitutional legislation of the countries. I sometimes think: Thank God I'm not a lawyer. But I guess what the provision in Article 2 para. 1 Z 3 which reads as follows: "The approval of the agreements may be carried out by a simple majority in the country days." Apart from the fact that the Federal Constitutional Legislator is clearly interfering with the constitutional rights of the countries – Mr Stadler has already pointed out how this was criticized in the Subcommittee – apart from the fact that it is likely to be an opportunity legislation with regard to those countries in which a two-thirds majority of SPÖ and ÖVP are difficult to achieve, I already wonder: What does this mean: "can happen by a simple majority in the country days"? Who, then, determines whether the Landday adopts a Constitutional Act by a simple majority or, as the Constitution provides, with a two-thirds majority? Does a simple majority then decide that the simple majority can be applied? – I think you are going into a very strange situation. I hope that the later discussions on the consultation mechanism and, in particular, on the Stability Pact, on which we do not yet know anything, can somehow relativize today's draft Constitutional Act in its meaning. As we do Article 2 para. 1 Z3, which contains the breaking of the constitutional rights of the land days, can be repaired, is still in the stars. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e4389	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Niederwieser. Speech time: 8 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e4410	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! In fact, this law should have already gone over the stage, because if I take the issue of our estimated journal "Communal up-to-date" by January 1997, I see that it is there that "beginning January 1997 the decision-making mechanism has been adopted by Parliament". [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: Who is the editor of this newspaper?]] It's not here. [[Abg. Dr Schmidt: That might make the matter clear!]] But here's what it's all about. I believe that the content of the newspaper article and what has happened in the meantime is already important. The interim titles are as follows: "Unique cooperation across Europe." – This concerns cooperation between federal, regional and local authorities and cities. And on top of that: "A high level of responsibility" and "sparable, economic and appropriate execution" and more is to be read here. This article is remarkable in many respects; in any case, it shows that Parliament is well aware of its rights when it comes to its own rights. And this also shows that we have Presidents at our head, who in such situations raise their voices and say: In this way we cannot imagine that. – I believe that this is a good and important experience for parliamentarians. This is also a draft law – this is an advantage, Mr Van der Bellen – which you can actually go through here from the speaker's desk in a few minutes point by point. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Right!]] We do not have such draft laws every day – for some you are here for a few hours – but this one is of such clarity that there is not really much to do with the title. This is an authorisation, and we have not found a better name for the word "authorization" – I admit. We all do not like it so much, but it is about the conclusion of both the consultation mechanism and the Stability Pact. We create clear conditions for this. Mr Stadler and some other previous speakers, the Committee's experts, have already mentioned this. I mean, it was a rather selective perception, the former colleague Mag. Stadler did here when he quoted Professor Perenthaler as saying that this was a "catastrophe". With the word "catastrophe" Member Stadler was right; this word has fallen. [[Abg. Dr. Fuhrmann: Which Bearental?]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: What's going on?]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] However, Professor Pernthaler said – Pernthaler, the constitutional lawyer from Innsbruck – that the Federal Constitutional Legislator can, of course, intervene in this matter, as it is in the multi-mentioned provision of Article 2, because the Federal Constitutional Act does so several times. – Professor Perenthaler expressed concerns about federalism and said that this was "federalism political a disaster". That's what Professor Perenthaler actually said. However, he referred to this as "permissible" in constitutional terms. – And it’s, I mean, already important to hold that. It has also been stressed by all the experts that it is obvious that there cannot be both: a consultation mechanism, which is welcomed by all, a Stability Pact, which is considered important by all, and at the same time its implementation or entry into force, which is only possible when all the land days have agreed. This is not possible without such a provision – that is simply a fact in real political terms – and this provision is permitted by constitutional law. I therefore believe that we can decide in this form. However, we can and will not finalise this law – and this is also a matter of particular importance – if we really know the texts on the Stability Pact and the consultation mechanism, if we have also perceived our interests as Members and can in the future act on the legislative basis, if we find that the sovereignty which is transferred to Parliament by the people is actually exercised and cannot be hindered by anyone who does not know, which I consider very important. So if all these points are on the table, we will be able to decide on this law in third reading. This afternoon, an item on the agenda will be put on the agenda for this consultation mechanism. In the future, vocational schools should be able to provide additional training for those who want to prepare for the professional ageing test – a measure decided by Parliament. According to the new curriculum of vocational schools, there is this possibility to prepare for professional maturity. However, vocational schools are now also country matters; the countries are school holders, and they pay some of the costs for vocational school teachers. Therefore, after this meeting of the Committee on Education, each country could say in such a case: We want to hold consultations on this again! I have experienced in the school law on the integration of disabled children myself that they have said a federal representative that it will cost 10 million Schilling, and the other federal representatives have meant that it will cost 100 million Schilling. – Following the original draft, this work would have come to a standstill, and we could not even decide on such a simple matter as additional instruction in the vocational school. All these concerns could now be resolved so that we can now accept this draft law with good conscience in second reading. It is an important step towards a cooperative state. It is a very important step towards those mechanisms of political negotiation that are increasingly known under the term "rawer table". And it is certainly also an important step – I do not want to break my head over the others at all – towards a better understanding between the individual local authorities, between the federal government, the national council, the countryside, the municipalities and the cities. In this respect, this consultation mechanism is also an important law within the framework of our state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e4509	The next speaker is Mr Brauneder. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e4530	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! It was once – that actually sounds like a fairy tale – when one spoke of the "architectural of the Constitution" and in the positive sense meant that architecture was just beautiful and that one should not change this beauty. Now you can change architecture very well, even in a completely different way than it originally represented itself. In my opinion, for example, the redout hall is a very good example; there, modern things have been inserted, which, although not in harmony with the old walls, is not in harmony with them. But with this law – and this is not the only one – we are still miles away from the "Redouten Hall". We are more at a redout hall, which is angled, with small steps, with small rooms, with walls and all the possible, which is more likely to hinder the use of this room. I see that our constitution has some architecture that makes it very difficult to add structural measures in a clear, clear form. There are, for example, the rules of competence, the division of competence in our state, which are to be criticized in one point – at least in one point: One can say that the local authorities are allowed to do things and decide what they have no money for. From this point of view, something similar to a consultation mechanism may be a good motive for a constitutional reform. However, once you look at what has happened lately when you make an international comparison, you can see the following: There are the national headquarters conference, the National Offices Conference and the integration conference of the countries. The consultation mechanism will soon also come into force; we have taken the first steps in this direction. If one compares this with the relevant circumstances in the Federal Republic of Germany, one can see that these are powers which are largely exercised by the Federal Council there, and this is essentially an organ of the national executive in the Federal Republic of Germany. In this way, we look at the fact that we in Austria are constantly strengthening the executive and do not go through our Federal Council and with it ways that pass our Federal Council. – I mean, this architecture is not beautiful. She's wrong, she's swinging. Now a few comments on this draft law. I also believe that the title – as several of my previous speakers have said – is incorrect. It is not only a "federal constitution law with which the Austrian Municipal Federation and the Austrian City Association are authorized" and so on. These are not just empowerments written in this text of the law. I would just like to mention two examples: In Article 2(2), point (a) is replaced by the following: Article 138a(2) becomes Article 138a(2). 1 B-VG expands and complements. In Article 3, Article 137 B-VG is extended and supplemented. – This has nothing to do with empowerment, but these are interventions in the federal constitution beyond a beautiful architecture. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Rather, what we have in front of us here is a law of action, a law that should provide the basis for certain measures – and that only temporarily. Article 2 clearly shows: "The agreements referred to in Article 1 shall be those for agreements referred to in Article 15a(1). First, second, third, the anti-federalist measure mentioned above with the intervention in the national constitutions. But also the further content of this law surprises, precisely from the point of view of architecture, because it actually brings new things. It has already been said that on this basis a new kind of agreement can be concluded, which is not just Article 15a agreements, but rather agreements will be sui generis. In this context too, I would like to make a point of criticism. If it is in Article 2 para. 2 means – I say this shortened –: Municipal authorities shall be entitled to apply in accordance with Article 138a. 1 B-VG, and if it says that other institutions may apply to the Constitutional Court for an agreement within the meaning of Article 15a. 1 - and this is a new kind of agreement - the Constitutional Court should, in fact, permanently reject this question, because that is not an Article 15a agreement. Mr Klubobmann Khol said that this draft law was a first step towards state reform. – If so, I have to say: This step is taking place – I wanted to say: with a tipped leg – no, I'm correcting myself: This step does not even happen with a tipped or skimmed leg, but with a broken leg; perhaps even with two broken legs. And it is not the step I am taking towards a reasonable and necessary state reform. Perhaps the only positive provision of this Federal Constitutional Act is Article 4, which reads as follows: "This Federal Constitution Act shall enter into force at the same time as the agreements referred to in Article 1. This Constitutional Act shall continue to enter into force if the agreements in accordance with Art. 1 until the end of this legislative period." – This is the only positive point I see in this Federal Constitutional Act, which will certainly be adopted. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e4600	The next speaker was Mr Feurstein. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e4622	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It is interesting that Mr Brauneder, in the Committee, has made much different comments from the speaker's point of view. This Constitutional Act, which we are now adopting, is essentially about the fact that the three territorial authorities can carry out equal opportunities with one-off consultations, consultations and contracts. The federal, state and local authorities should be equal and be able to regulate various things for themselves. That's essential. This is what we want to make possible, and this is actually the subject of this Federal Constitutional Act, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is true, as honourable Member Khol said, that this partnership relationship, particularly as regards the towns, has not been observed in the past as we would like it to be. The municipalities and the cities in this state community are just as partners for us as well as federal and country, and they are now to be able to work together. If the financial considerations are in the foreground of these consultations which are now being made possible, this is understandable, because, of course, it is primarily financial issues when it is necessary to work together and to work together. Let me, however, outline some basic requirements for our site clearly and clearly. The first basic requirement is that these consultations should take place at the level of governments: The Federal Government, the Council of Ministers with state governments, with the representatives of the Municipal Associations and the Municipal Government. It is therefore not intended to be a consultation which directly intervenes in the legislation, but one which essentially does not affect the legislation. Of course, legislation should take account of what has been agreed. A second important point for us is that the Government's proposal, namely the 15a agreement which has been presented, is basically being revised. It has already been established in the Committee that a team of experts must draw up and present a new 15a agreement. A third point is – and this is very important – that the Stability Pact should also be implemented at the same time as the consultation agreement. For us, this Stability Pact is clear. This is a procedure which makes it possible for excessive deficits not to be achieved or, should they arise, to be reduced wherever they arise. One last point, and most important for us, is that all of this is naturally seen in connection with the State reform. I say quite openly to my group: The proposals put forward by Mr Kostelka in this regard a few weeks ago are interesting, but they do not bring us closer to solving the problem. For us, it is important that the branch – central federal administration and state administration – be eliminated that we build up a government, that we proceed to a procedure. This is particularly important for the whole area of the approval procedure. We want to achieve very quickly that uniform authorities are set up and uniform procedures are being established. And, of course, a third step, a final step, is important, namely the reorganisation of competences, ladies and gentlemen. For us, this means a new understanding between the Federal Government, the Länder, the Municipal Government, and the Municipal Government. We expect a partnership relationship to be established. However, it is not a question of any rights being exchanged between each other, but of dealing with each other in partnership. If we succeed, we have made a very important contribution to helping the federal principle in our constitution to break through, the federal principle, which is very essential to our community.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e4682	The next speaker is Mr Kampichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e4703	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! As far as my previous speaker, Mr Brauneder, is concerned, I find very positive in today's decision-making. We are creating the basis for the functioning of the consultation mechanism by today's decision of a Federal Constitutional Act on the authorisation of the Municipal and Municipal Governments. We are thus creating, ladies and gentlemen, the basis for the fact that cities and communities can act as equal partners for negotiations when it comes to new laws. My clubman, Dr. Khol, has already done this very precisely. It will not be possible in the future to impose financial burdens on municipalities without their consent from the federal or state through laws or regulations. The municipalities and cities are thus able to maintain and expand their infrastructure and continue to secure jobs as the largest client. Ladies and gentlemen! As mayor, I am very glad that this decision is being taken today – I am speaking here on behalf of at least the ÖVP mayor in this Chamber, in a very special way, of course, on behalf of the Vice-President of the Federal Government, Hermann Kröll – because especially in times when public budgets are forced to rigid savings budgets, the danger is that these savings will be the last in the chain of the distribution of tax resources. Dear ladies and gentlemen! The communities are those that are closest to the citizens; and any decision in the communities has a significant impact on all citizens. In the municipalities, the population sees the impact of politics most clearly and can also directly exert pressure. It is hard to ensure that the communities do not harm between the two blocks of pressure. However, I can assure you, ladies and gentlemen, that the communities will be very responsible for the new instrument. Our negotiators will always be very careful to ensure that there is no burden on local authorities by laws or regulations and that the costs of a change of law are clearly presented. This is also a second positive effect, namely the effect of economy, economy and effectiveness. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The Empowerment Act is the prerequisite for the conclusion of a consultation mechanism, which also protects the households of the municipalities. This step must necessarily be followed by the second step. The arrangements on the consultation mechanism must be concluded very quickly. In the interests of all communities, I appeal to the negotiators to also successfully complete this matter. On behalf of the local authorities, I would like to thank you very much for the far-reaching view of all the negotiators and for the general willingness to set up this consultation mechanism. The result achieved is not only a great success for the countries and communities but a great success for the entire state.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e4755	In the word, no one has been reported for this. That is why the debate is closed. There is no final word from the rapporteur. We come to the vote, and I ask you to take the places because they are a two-thirds matter. We shall vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 974 of the Supplements. Since the proposal is a Federal Constitutional Act, I first put it in the sense of § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the number of Members present in the House required for the vote. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to the proposal to give a positive signal. – With regard to the presence at the opposition, I note that the presentation was accepted by a majority, with the two-thirds majority required by constitutional law. According to an agreement at the Presidential Conference, according to § 74 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, to postpone the third reading at a later date. I would like to make this proposal to the House and ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree that the third reading is adjourned for a sign on this point. – This is adopted by a majority. ==References== Agenda item. 2. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 533/A by Dr Peter Kostelka, Dr. Andreas Kholund Comrades on a Federal Law on transparency in the employment of the state-based business sector (Staffing Act) (975 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e4822	We'll get to the 2nd. Agenda item. Does the rapporteur, Mr Stippel, wish to speak? This is not the case. We are therefore immediately entering the debate. First speaker is Mr. Dr. Haider. Speech time: 12 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e4854	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! In response to the tragic events on the occasion of Dr. Praschak's free death at the Oesterreichische Control Bank, the German Chancellor has announced five points, which are now supposed to be transparent in the occupation of public enterprises. It is an announcement that as such would not have been necessary if one knew that about the initiative of the then Federal Chancellor Bruno Kreisky already in 1982, namely on 29 October 1982. A law on this subject was passed in October 1982, which also provided for the award of public functions in public undertakings, but this law was apparently not applied at all. That's why you've done another duty exercise by saying: The matter with Mr Praschak is embarrassing enough, we cover it by saying that we are making a new law. Climate decreed five points, but hardly was it done, one has already forgotten things again. The Praschak case has hardly been forgotten, but it has already been continued as before. I think only of the fact that, for example, the Board of the Austrian Federal Railways has been increased by three to five without due regard for these creeds, as they have been laid down here: While at the same time decommissioning to the 9 500 railways, the Board of Directors was increased because Mr Pröll's secretary, granted by SPÖ, had to be provided. And, of course, two, a red and a black, had to be added to the board. The same is true in the Austrian mineral oil industry, where 1,000 people are being mined, but contrary to these announcements that there are special precautionary obligations of the public sector in such undertakings, the Board of Directors is increased to six people so that the secretary of Minister Klima, Marc Hall, gets another position. The same is true of you at the post office where the outgoing Minister of Economic Affairs Ditz finds himself a financial director and at the same time is responsible for the loss of 10 000 posters. All of this, ladies and gentlemen, is practices that do not comply with the 1982 Act or with what climate has stated in its five points, or with what you want to decide by law today. Or another recent example: Mr. Heinrich Otruba, Professor of the University, confirmed in a letter dated August 2, 1989. In September 1997 he was awarded to a Minister responsible for the new Telecommunication Control GesmbH, despite the fact that a genuine tender procedure is under way. One has told him that the tender is still running, but, dear Otruba, you do that, we do not care about the tender result at all, but it is crucial that we place our friends there. This is confirmed by Professor Otruba even with a letter and seal in a document that is available here. Or look at what happened in the Styria with the Mrs. Konrad! It's all going on the same level. Only by the pressure of the public did you have to correct yourself because social democracy itself has become too hot. And if you look at Salzburg: There, a socialist head of state even leads a data card in which the red and black department heads are calculated as many red and black heads in which bra, in which department of the state government is still to be occupied, so that the proportion is true among the powerful in this country. These are the things, ladies and gentlemen, where you are repeatedly demasked with regard to your beautiful announcements that you take into account in law, but before the law is still passed, you will become constitutional breakers because you trample human rights, citizens' rights with feet because people are being treated by party books. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This is why we are concerned because I think it is significant that not even the Praschak case has led to a rethinking. There a person divorces from life because he no longer holds out the way in which party books exert pressure on how political pressure is made in the public sector when it comes to post-ordering; that is sufficiently documented documented. And not even that leads to you getting used to your style! And when you look at what has been argued: With English tongues the public was conjured: We need three Executive Directors at the Austrian Control Bank! – It had to be supplied to the divorced Minister Scholten. Scholten was, as you know, in the control bank, but he had no claim to the position of a board director. So one had to create a third to catapult schools in there, so to speak. But now, at once, where Praschak has left, you don't need a third Executive Director anymore, now two more are enough. And why did Scholten have to go in there? – To bring under the carpet all the errors and financial manipulations of Red and Black politicians in the control bank, so to speak. One last case. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, I ask you, Mr State Secretary: Why, for example, during economic negotiations in Moscow, on the occasion of the visit of German Chancellor Klima, is the Chancellor not the Austrian ambassador, as is usual, but the Director of the Austrian Control Bank, Scholten, and there leads the negotiations? Why is two days before? Old German chancellor Vrannitzky in Moscow on relevant preparatory negotiations on open questions of the control bank-financed loans from Austria for Russia? Why do you need schools there? – For a very simple reason: A number of projects have been financed where the money has disappeared. Example 1 – I would like to give you an example to make it easier for us to do so –: There was, even in the media, the foundation of the Austrian Square in St. Petersburg. St. Petersburg was inaugurated by the Chancellor's wife, Christine Vrnitzky, in the presence of Mr. Federal Chancellor Vranitzky with great prudence – Madethaner, I think, was there as well, as many others. Austria donated the Austrian Place with Austrian funds. This has financed the credit institution with a credit framework that goes into the billions. This business, from which the Austrian Square was also financed, is secured by a credit from the Austrian Control Bank, and managed by the mayor of St. Petersburg, who, as you can see from media reports, is a thick friend of the old chancellor, Mrs. Altkanzler, but also of Mr. Bundeskanzler's climate, who has also participated in this ceremony. Only this mayor of St. Petersburg in the meantime because of fraud and neglect in prison, and it now suddenly arises at the new administration in St. Petersburg the question arises: Where is the money that Austria wants to make available for the Austrian seat? The money never arrived. The good friend of the Vranitzky and climate families, who were together at the opening with the old mayor, may have done something with these funds. Therefore, the good friend Scholten must sit at the negotiating table in Moscow to spread the coat of silence over a gross financial debacle of the Austrian Federal Government, the Old Chancellor and the Neukanzler. – That’s the reality! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] A billion schillings have stayed on the track. That's also the reason why you have to do post positions in red and black terms: Because Mr Scholten is the most reliable partner when covering instead of discovering abuses, because Austrian money has been wasted there, because it has been used in criminal areas and because you yourself know that something is wrong, you are using your party book acrobats, which ultimately work to the detriment of Austrian taxpayers. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That is why we say that all of this is highly unbelievable. She doesn't care about all this, it's "only" about billions, it's "only" about the Austrian control bank's liability. It is "only" that the Austrian taxpayer already has to take over liability with more than 103 billion schilling at the Austrian control bank, namely the default liability for loans to Eastern trading countries which are already no longer eligible. You all know that. But that's just about "small" sums, for which the taxpayer pays. 103 billion schillings are not a big sum to be accommodated here, but the citizens then pay for them with savings packages. – These are the things we want to present to you on the occasion of this debate. We know very well that you will not change – nor by this law, because this law is as toothless as many others. And we also know quite well that you do not want to change, otherwise since the case of Praschak you would have taken the opportunity to show at the post office, at the OMV, at the ÖBB that it is serious to you. Otherwise, you should not have computer lists in the state governments, how the party members are organized, and where there are still posts to be filled. Otherwise, you would not have to work with the book of the party and otherwise you would not have to send Mr Scholten to Moscow to ensure that the financial debacle that an old chancellor and a new chancellor are not spread in the eyes of the Austrians. That's what you're doing: They create a state in which injustice is raised to the principle. They create a state in which the mismanagement is to be turned under the carpet by the power of your party books. And you will thus create a discussion that we will be holding, and which will not be calm until you are prepared to put the cards on the table and to inform us openly here, where the amounts of money that have suddenly disappeared in the gift policy of old Chancellors and new Chancellors! Good partygoers should then quickly spread the coat of silence over it so that the Austrians do not know how supposedly decent social democrats deal with the money of taxpayers!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e4961	The next speaker was Mr Jarolim. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e4982	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Haider! They have made it to an agenda item, which reads as follows: To make a decision on a new law, to say nothing at all, except that the law is toothless. They owe us every accountability and argument. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Of course, I would like to deal with the law in itself, but it is relatively difficult to remain objective after a parade of your policy, which you are constantly presenting to us here. I would therefore like to focus very briefly on the question of what justification you are actually asking yourself here and what things are relatively difficult to understand. For example, they put things into space, like: Someone must have done something, ladies and gentlemen, and these are the points we are talking about here. I think it is necessary to talk about the way in which this kind of policy is, of course, a policy that we do not want at all. This is a policy that should ultimately make it impossible to see clearly what a party stands for. You have shown this particularly impressively to us in the 0.5-promille regulation, which you originally voted against in order to declare today at a press conference that you are actually the inventor of this regulation. Also operating in many other areas It is such a policy that I would like to call circular policy because it does not really know who stands for it anymore. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: The voters already know, you don't know!]] It is obviously pleasant to you that anyone from your party takes any position, only so that you can say later, if necessary: We have also taken this position. Mr Haider! I want to face you personally with something. I didn't originally intend to do that, but you're forcing me to do it. I ask myself, with what justification You actually get out of here and play here as a great moralist. They say the law to be passed here today is toothless. – I guess you don’t know the law at all, you didn’t read it, otherwise you couldn’t make such a statement, because this law represents a significant improvement towards objectivity, a further development compared to the old law. It is therefore totally illegal to say that this law is toothless, for it is a substantial improvement. What you are proposing, if you are saying here that it is toothless, is that you also want to create increased objects and that you therefore want to prevent the enforcement of party positions, of positions that could not be objective. I would like to quote something you yourself have said on this subject, namely: Order in management functions, exercise of management functions, understanding of democracy in management functions. This cannot be reconciled at all with what you have said here today. ==References== September 1991 – re-readable in the "profile" – states: "I will maintain a uniform appearance throughout the party. This is a leadership task that is still to be done." - Quote. So you're going to have a uniform look, that's the leadership task. – You have also explained: "The present form of living together is denatured. This is not an ideal in the national sense." Quote Haider, please! "Partnership consists of a leading and serving part. So it is." - Quote. Ladies and gentlemen! Someone who has said this turns out here today and speaks of a draft law, which, as you can say, represents a further development, a significant improvement, the authorisation. That's what I'm wondering, of course: How seriously can I take what this person argues? How seriously do I have to take that? I mean – and, of course, this is not a point for democracy, and it is not good for this House either – that, in the end, much of what you said here, Dr. Haider, cannot be taken seriously, and that is not because you do not know whether what you are saying today is actually valid even tomorrow. On this occasion, I do not want to point out – perhaps I will come to the conclusion, if I have time to talk about it again – what incredible derailments you have actually done. This is particularly remarkable in connection with the fact that you always say that the Freedom Party is free of any flaw. I am thinking, for example, of this painful contract which you concluded in Klagenfurt at the time as the possibility that the Freedom Party might occupy functions. Posts have already been split before the order has been made, ladies and gentlemen, with absolute disregard for those involved in the process. It was explained: We want these positions and those positions, and it was determined what you wanted everything. The fact that you, Dr. Haider, have to represent you, for example, that Mr Gaugg is asking for re-establishment in a bank, although he is not at all able to perform a function there, and that he still complains that he has not received the amount of 60 000 S to which it was then, that you are doing such a thing is almost incredible! [[Abg. May. Trattner: How can you judge this?- Oh, my God!]] Or: There is the establishment of your Social Fund, in which the so-called unemployed incomes are to be paid, which will then be "redistributed" among Members of the Free Party. But you say that the 60 000 S rule is being fulfilled. I can only say: I think that's shocking! Ladies and gentlemen! I want to come to the law now. Mr Haider has largely excluded the discussion about this and has simply declared that there is a law before it, and the law currently applicable is far from toothless. – That’s not it, and I want to argue here for a moment. The draft law has been discussed in the Committee and has been ignored by your group, which is not particularly surprising. There is, among other things, a contract template. This contract template will be completed with the use of a Commission consisting of experts, economic experts, lawyers and economic operators who say what specific management contracts usually look like in the sector concerned. The aim is to ensure that the contracts for the appointment of directors and board members in companies subject to the control of the Court of Auditors have a certain uniform standard. But we cannot go there and say that this is a toothless thing when we know that a study is being carried out on what the average fees, the average salaries look like, and that this study will be binding on the conclusion of new contracts. This can also be seen in connection with the fact that the positions are to be written out before the order and that after the order it is also announced who received this position, in contrast to earlier not only in the "Wiener Zeitung", but also in another mass sheet. In addition, it is also necessary to indicate and indicate which supervisory councils participated in the order process, regardless of how the order was made. Ladies and gentlemen! You can't just go here and say that's nothing, that's really not an improvement, we're ignoring that again, as Mr Haider did, who spoke about something else on this item on the agenda, simply because it fits into his concept and because it's common for you to tell anything else here despite the agenda. In fact, it is a significant improvement, and it is ultimately what the coalition parties have done, namely the five-point programme, which serves to increase the objectivity, which serves to make public the way in which orders have been processed in detail. This is a law that absolutely does not allow itself to get over it because it simply contains normative points. I admit that I would have liked it to be mandatory for the countries too. However, we can only vote here on the Confederation, on federal matters. It is mandatory in this area. I must say that I do not see your criticism points – but in fact there were no criticisms, because you did not even go into the law, but only repeated your election speech from the last election campaign here – and can therefore no longer address them. [[Abg. Böhacker: It doesn't matter to him anymore!]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: You probably don't think of the Praschak, Mr. Lawyers!]] Mr President, I should like to thank I can perhaps remind you – because you're going to call it down from above – what that was, what you completed in Carinthia at the time. I can read to you very briefly, because it always disappears so easily from memory. I now quote from the contract, which is funnyly circulated: "The FPÖ will agree on a common procedure on human resources issues and the election of the Chairpersons in sub-committees." – Ladies and gentlemen! This is objectivity of the FPÖ brand. This was at a time when the conditions had not yet been clarified and therefore it was not yet foreseeable whether the FPÖ would have anything to talk about, or, as has been shown then, that it would have nothing to talk about. And here's what it says: "The Carinthian Tourism Society is being reformed organisationally. The FPÖ receives an option" – I emphasize: an option! – "to the new position of the Chairman of the Supervisory Board."– End of the quote. Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! The fact that, when you conclude such agreements, you have the forehead to stand out here and swadder over a new draft law, amazes me very much. It goes on to say: "The Landtagsdirektor will be re-appointed, this position is granted to the FPÖ. At the time of the appointment of the committees in the Kärntner Landtag, FPÖ will be appointed chairman of the Legal and Constitutional Committee." And this is how it continues, ladies and gentlemen. I am not saying this because it is directly part of this item on the agenda, but in order to relativize what has been said or will be said by the liberals today on this law, ladies and gentlemen. I believe that this draft law, with its provisions, represents a significant improvement in the direction of objectivity, and I believe that you will soon see it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e5068	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Stoisits. - Here you go. Your speaking time is set to 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e5098	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! If this had not been such a sad occasion, namely the death of Dr. Praschak, the reason for this initiative of the coalition parties, then what we have heard so far would really be a theatre. Mr. Dr. Haider came out of here and, as an opposition, teased the government parties whether they were sufficiently well-known, without regard to other circumstances to give posts according to the proportional system. Dr. Jarolim has just presented him and all of us with what it would be like if Mr. Dr. Haider could do as he wanted. The agreement between FPÖ and ÖVP in Carinthia has shown it quite clearly: Then the FPÖ is completely outraged about how to divide the Republic – in this case it held the federal state – which FPÖ functionals or FPÖ artists or persons supported by FPÖ to which posts should come. Dr. Haider! Your problem is that, while you are right to criticise what you are criticising – even in your speech of the previous occupation law; unlike you, I was in the committee and I have heard the discussion and contributions of your colleagues in the political groups there – you are right, but you are not credible because you are preoccupied with how you act when you sit on the so-called shift levers of power. Carinthia was a wonderful example. The history of the law to be decided on today has a very serious core, because the old occupation law, which has been valid for several years – I believe since 1982 – has actually been toothless, and that's why it is lifted. If it hadn't been toothless, it wouldn't have come to a new law. However, I am convinced that the new law does not meet the demands of the government and, in this particular case, of the Federal Chancellor himself. These claims are not fulfilled by what is available for decision today. These famous, or better, well-known – because they are far from famous yet – five points which the German Chancellor, in his capacity as SPÖ chairman, has announced after a SPÖ presidency meeting of the public in May and which were also published, are not implemented in this law, which is relatively short and scarce, in some respects, probably in others. I have come to the conclusion, after reflections and discussions in my group, that this proposal does not meet the expectations that we have also put in the initiative of the Federal Chancellor and which, after the tragic death of Dr Praschak, would also be justified as a consequence of what can be presented to the public. For me, the following points are incomprehensiblely not implemented, or so vaguely formulated, that we cannot give our consent: The first point is the question: In view of the severe criticism that exists in the public, why not get through to create something that actually has an efficient validity? For example, there is now the passus that the national legislation is empowered to do something in its fields. She is entitled, but no one controls whether she does it or not. Thus, these unsituations, which exist, may be continued, but without the Federal legislator having the opportunity to intervene in future. - That's the first point. The second point concerns the so-called model contracts referred to by Dr. Jarolim; they are now called contract templates in the law. In this context, the Federal Chancellor has said that, according to international but also national trade comparisons, it will be mandatory to define market-oriented references. There is no more talk of this in the law at all, and there is no transparency either because these contractual templates are not made known. These model contracts are interesting, but how does the public know what they look like? – I mean, there are a lot of things published in the "Wiener Zeitung", birthday greetings and all kinds of things, but for as essential things as these contract templates there is no obligation to publish. – This is another essential criticism. The question of marketable references has also not been implemented in this law, as announced in the five-point paper by the Federal Chancellor. But, ladies and gentlemen, that is what it is all about. This is precisely the point that the public is interested in. The public is particularly interested in what performance is earned. The question of transparency is indeed what leads the public debate, and this law, even if it has a good core, is not fair to the claim of increased transparency, and therefore we cannot give this law our consent.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e5162	Mr Dr. Haider spoke in favour of an actual correction. I would draw attention to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e5189	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Stoisits claimed that there was a contradiction between our right demands and the action where we could actually act, such as in Carinthia. – This claim is incorrect! There was only once a liberal staff member at the level of a state government, from 1989 to 1990: That was me personally. And as head of state and staff officer, I have initiated and implemented the objectiveion law in the Landtag and in the Land Government, which has led to the first time that there have been no three-way proposals, but binding results of the objectiveive commission or a first-time appointment of district leaders who have no party political ties, that there have been officials on time, such as primary doctors who have been ordered for five years, and that... [[Abg. Oillinger: That's not the topic!]]
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e5215	Mr. Dr. Haider! The actual correction must refer to the claim of the existence of a pact.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e5231	Mr President. You should not have listened to the statements made by the honourable Member. She did not talk about a "fact" but about actual action. I'm correcting: In fact, the action of the liberals in the time of the responsibility of a national leader of freedom has led to an objectiveion law, to officials on time, to the binding of the staff representative to the results of the objectiveion commission and to the elimination of political arbitrariness and the party book economy.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e5261	I would ask that I obtain the Minutes of Mrs Stoisits' speech. The next honourable Member, Mr Mag, is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Cordula Frieser. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e5288	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian People's Party will give its consent to the Employment Act. [[Call to the Freemen:Respect!]] Any more expectations? [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Resisting Expectation!]] As some of my previous speakers have mentioned, this law of course brings more transparency to the 1982 law, which has already been mentioned. It brings more transparency to the person to be appointed, it brings more transparency to the key persons, namely those who occupy the functions, and, of course, it also brings more transparency with regard to the financial impact. In so far as this law has definitely taken an essential step. However, I would also like to remind you that we have already provided transparency. For example, there is the Court of Auditors' income report, which very likely reveals the state-owned assets, and we have recently also provided for a list of all contributions in state-owned enterprises, which amounts to over 80 000 S, to be published for 1998 and 1999. A completely new task in the Employment Act is the so-called contract template, which has already been discussed. Mrs Stoisits, I do not share your concerns. In my view, there is no doubt that these model contracts do not have to be published to their full extent. Imagine having to publish a service contract that often goes over ten pages, in a daily newspaper or in the "Wiener Zeitung"! I mean, that would be too extensive. In addition, I believe that the public is solely interested in the level of reference and additional payments, such as payments or the amount of a possible pension. In conclusion, however, I would like to say that it is quite unique that we in Austria need to regulate practices which are natural in all other industrialized countries. I repeat once again that we are going to give this law our approval, but I believe that it is not only the laws that come into force, but the people who then have to implement these laws.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e5333	The next speaker was Mr Krüger. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e5355	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! After these rather lustless speeches by representatives of the government parties, a few critical remarks to this law. I would like to say to Mr Jarolim, who has spoken of agreements here – I think he is not present in plenary now – that: I wonder if one speaks of a Republic of the Secretary in Austria, who are these secretaries or where these secretaries are sitting today. I can tell you who these people are: It is once Mr Serein – he comes to my attention spontaneously – the former secretary of the Federal Chancellor Vranitzky, now well-known member of the Executive Board of the Association Society, expanded by two persons. I also think that Mr Mailath-Pokorny, who has passed all the rules of hierarchical structures and all the rules of the establishment of an official's career and has very quickly gone to a highest office in the federal section. I also think that Mr Kothbauer, who is working in a state-nearly company that has reached the insurance sector. In other words, These are not secretaries – that is, the accusation of Mr Jarolim – of Jörg Haider or FPÖ, or of representatives of the FPÖ, who have been brought up in light heights without special knowledge, but who are clearly employees of a Federal Chancellor of SPÖ. Ladies and gentlemen! This law is nothing but a placebo law, because it actually repeats only the federal law of 1982, it does not change anything substantial to it. I'm prophesying to you: Just as little as you have adhered to the 1982 law, you will not now comply with this new occupation law. I can prove this to you, too. I can prove to you that it is not serious for you to instill life in this law as well. The scope is given in § 1. It states that this law should apply to "the appointment of members of the board of directors... of undertakings with their own legal personality subject to the control of the Court of Auditors". Ladies and gentlemen! If you decide on the exclusion of the Bundestheater, this law would undoubtedly be applicable in this form. However, they have repeatedly argued that the opposition's desire to write out positions in the federal theatres is too sensitive to the applicant's desire to do so. Yes, if you stick to this argument, I wonder how much you would like to explain the scope of this law applicable to this position. So that's where it really hits in the front and in the back. This law is therefore nothing but a placebo law, in fact nothing but a kind of re-announcement of an ineffective law from 1982. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The reason for this law is more tragic. I can assure you: When Dr. Praschak has ended his life, he will probably have expected a different reaction to his death from his comrades, from his family friends. I would like to say the following: This law is also unworthy of Dr. Praschak. If you believe that you can save yourself over this affair that causes deep cracks in social democracy and impressively shows a moral image of social democracy in the long term with such a placebo law, then you are mistaken! I believe that you will punish the electorate for this.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e5403	The Secretary of State has spoken. Please, Mr State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e5424	Mr President. High house! The statements made here by Mr Haider I would like to say a little bit about their truth. It is in all cases wrong to link the name of Mr. Federal Chancellor with a financing in St. Petersburg. This is a financing of an economic enterprise and not a political financing issue. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Who was at the opening? The climate and the Vranitzky!]] Second point: Dr. Scholten was not instead of the Ambassador member, but the Ambassador was present at the talks. Dr. Scholten was a member of an economic delegation, in his capacity as Director of the Supervisory Bank, which is the official body of the Austrian export guarantee and export promotion affairs. In this capacity, guarantees and support systems should also be developed for Russia. This delegation consisted of more than 20 economic operators hoping to conclude contracts with Russia or to prepare contracts with Russia, and this requires guarantees and promotions from the relevant export bank. Therefore, the presence of a representative of this bank in an economic matter is not a great miracle, but a necessity as is the case with all other economic delegations in the context of state visits. Now to the third claim, there would be a arrest of the mayor. This claim should also prove to be false. According to the Russian Embassy, the mayor has been in France since mid-October for heart surgery. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: With our money!]] I'd like to stay here. This is an information of the Russian Embassy! As far as the law itself is concerned, the five points which have been promised on the occasion of the German Chancellor's occupation of posts are now being implemented. It is a law which ensures transparency and disclosure of tenders. It established the acquisition of stencil or standard contracts. It is necessary to establish the terms of reference of the Supervisory Boards and other comparable leading positions in a mandatory comparison with national and international industry comparisons. A publication of the decision-makers will be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. These are four points that have been implemented in this law. The fifth point, namely the full disclosure of all references of board members and managing directors, was already covered by the Relevant Limitation Act. As a result, all five points in question are now realized and can be applied. I believe that this has taken account of the transparency and disclosure of the award of posts.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e5475	Mrs Stoisits has reported on an actual correction. I would ask you to respect the provisions of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e5500	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Krüger claimed here that the appointment of Dr. Andreas Mailath-Pokorny as section leader in the Federal Chancellor's Office would have been in violation of all the rules of the hierarchical structures and that he would have been brought to the highest office. I'm actually correcting: It is not known to me that there are rules of hierarchical structures which are laid down in accordance with the objectiveive guidelines and the procurement law. Rather, I assume that Dr. Mailath-Pokorny was entrusted with this position after a tender procedure which was legally correct, but not over any obscene hierarchical structures that Mr. Krüger obviously follows.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e5523	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The wording "I accept" also excludes the fact that this was an actual correction, because there are no assumptions to be made, but facts to be found. Mr Dr Kier came to speak. Will a voluntary speaking time be desired? [[Abg. Dr. Kier: 7 minutes!]] Seven minutes. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e5553	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! A number of assumptions have already been expressed in today's debate. I would like to clear up with a misunderstanding: The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats will vote in favour of this law – I will therefore also justify why – but we are not so naive that, if we have this law, it will bring some positive results, such as the disclosure of the references, the introduction of stencil contracts for the harmonisation of structures, in which there must be expressly any profit-turn-over participations, the publication of all those involved in the decision, and so on and so on, that is transparency, everything is in order. All of this will not help unless fairness is applied at the same time. We are not so naive to assume that by such a law to and for someone will become more decent. We don't believe that. But it will be much more difficult to be indecent. That is why this law is a great step forward. Then: The more transparent something is, the less it can be done by Munkerei, by discussing behind closed doors, by packing, by packing. But it will always be possible. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] That is why it will not be possible for us, particularly in that area of companies affected by the Court of Auditors' control, to add to our control function as representatives of the National Council. That's all I can say. This law is a step in the right direction, it brings more transparency, and it also links the contract-limitation law with the public economy sector under the control of the Court of Auditors. Whoever considers this to be negative is, I think, naïve, in so far as he seems to think that a code of moral conduct can be written into a law. That won't work. Whether a particular person is suitable for a particular position is partly determined by objective criteria, such as qualifications. But there is also the subjective responsibility of those who make the decisions: the Supervisory Board, the Annual General Meeting or whoever that is. There is the so-called culpa in eligendo. Of course, one is entitled to criticise a personal decision taken. However, this must prove to be true in practice. The accompanying control means that, even if decisions have already been made, one must not be satisfied. I hope to have been reminded by my brief contribution that a law alone is not everything that is much more important in the practice of life. Hopefully, everything contained in this law is serious. I would be pleased if in this case in future the majority of the spirit of this law would make use of it and not try to drive the letters around Slalom. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e5595	I don't have any further words. We therefore come to the vote, as the rapporteur does not wish for a final word, and I ask that the seats be taken. There is a need for an increased quota. We shall vote on the motion for a law including the title and receipt in 975 of the Supplements. Since the present draft law contains a constitutional provision, I first make a provision within the meaning of § 82 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure specify the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. I should like to ask that those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to the draft law at second reading give a sign. – This is decided in the case of appropriate quota with the required two-thirds majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I should like to ask that those ladies and gentlemen who also give their approval to this draft law at third reading give a sign of this. . I note that the proposal was also decided at the third reading in the presence of more than half of the two-thirds of Members. 3rd. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment No 641/A by Dr Peter Kostelkaund Comrades on a Federal Act amending the Federal Procurement Act 1997 (977 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e5655	We're coming to 3. Agenda item. There is no need for reporting. We are going into the debate. The first speaker is Mr. Dr. Kier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e5689	Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I will take a brief look at why we cannot give our approval to this proposal. We have considered it in a mature manner and have come to the conclusion that what is to be decided here is missing the claimed purpose. The proposed resolution is, at best, political journalism, and it is the unsuitable attempt to act as if you were going to do something for apprentices. In such things that are really just for the display window, we don't join! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e5719	The next speaker was Mr Riepl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e5740	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The situation in the context of youth employment and vocational training issues are issues which are rightly discussed which often have different views, but in which it is always possible to find majority groups in detail, sometimes also broad majority. In my view, it is particularly gratifying that the request of the Social Democratic Members to amend the Federal Procurement Act in the Committee has been widely approved and, I hope, today will be given broad approval in the plenary session. It is unfortunate that the Liberal Forum believes that this measure is only for the display window and is not an improvement in the content of the situation. I do not want to go any further on the few sentences that my previous speaker has said. However, I regret that we have not been able to reach a uniform view on this issue. Ladies and gentlemen! Fixing the lack of teaching places is a national concern and should therefore also help all to meet this concern and improve the situation. All possibilities have to be used. One possibility – we will advise and decide today – is a change to the Federal Procurement Act, whereby contracting authorities are to be obliged to take particular account of those entrepreneurs, providers and firms who are training apprentices. Finally, it is also a recognition for these establishments – a recognition of the willingness to train and the performance of training – if they are better assessed in public procurement law than they have been before. I think it is important to note that the condition for a holding to be taken into account in the award of the contract is an appropriate number of workers under the age of 19. It is also important for me to point out that all forgivenesss of the covenant should be included. The resolution, annexed to the Committee's resolution, calls on the Federal Government to act in the same way as the countries and municipalities, but also in the same way as the courts. One will be easier to do in this kind of awarding, the other may be a little harder. For example, in Vienna we have for many years had an contractor disaster, and according to consultation with those responsible for the city of Vienna, it is not a problem to implement the proposal that we have to decide today without delay. There is only the need to include information on the apprenticeship level in the contractor's register. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I think that we are doing a good job with this small-scale solution to apprenticeship training as a whole and the motivation for apprenticeship training, and I am pleased to say that my group will be able to accept this legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e5792	Mr Donabauer spoke next. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e5813	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! One cannot regulate everything by law in life, but if one does not do anything by law, then nothing can happen either. We currently have a high employment rate in Austria, we have 3 120 000 employees. However, we still have problems in relation to employment: We have too high an unemployment rate – especially women, citizens over 50 years and, last but not least, young people. There you can't watch, something has to happen! I believe that young people have a moral right to be involved in the work process to the greatest extent possible. It must be our aim to ensure that youth not only has employment but that it finds work in a qualitative way. But above all, we must ensure that young people continue to receive good training in the future. I believe that this is important for the further development of our economy, because only well-trained young people are also good professionals of tomorrow who will increase our economic competitiveness in the markets. We must admit, however, that there are problems. Many companies complain that training costs are too high. Many complain that there are strict provisions in the Youth Employment Act regarding apprenticeship training. We have appropriate framework conditions to have competitiveness comparable with other countries within the European Union. This will be a great task for us, so we will have to make every day effort. The Federal Government is not only clear about this situation, it is a concern. It therefore adopted a decision of 10 December 1990 on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in the field of equal treatment for men and women in the field of equal treatment for men and women in the field of equal treatment for men and women. In June, reference was made to the apprenticeship situation and made every effort to make proposals for solutions. Today's bill provides a solution. The purpose of this proposal for a law is to amend the Federal Act so as to take account, in particular, of the undertakings involved in the award of contracts which concern young people. In our amendment to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, we have also proposed that youth employment be given great importance, but also environmental justice. Back to youth employment. It is true that this law should not only be applied throughout Austria, but must also be compatible with EU law. This is why not only the status of apprenticeship training, but also the employment of young people under the age of 19, especially with the indication that they are to be in training, can be referred to. We really want to achieve that, in particular, one gives such businesses the opportunity to get better involved in the award of public contracts. We believe that it would be not enough if only the League had made a clear and honest intention and expressed it in the form of a law, it was right and important to make a motion for a resolution, according to which not only the covenant is to bring this new regulation into force, but also the other local authorities, especially the countries and communities, should make use of this provision. I personally believe that we can only cope with the problem of youth unemployment if we all strive to do so. This bill is an optimal and good condition for many companies. This is a great commitment for the Federation and also for the other local authorities, but above all an additional opportunity for our youth, and that is why this is a good, high-quality template. It will also find our approval.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e5864	I now give the floor to Mr Dr. Haider. You have a voluntary time limit of 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e5886	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Donabauer has rightly said that we must do everything we can to enable young people to have employment. We still have a tense situation, especially in the apprenticeship sector – whether you want to do so or not. [[Abg. Kampichler: Ten thousand apprentices have received more!]] The short-term measures, Mr Colleague, have included 7 000 young people in the WIFI and the BFI courses. Everyone knows that this is not a substitute for apprenticeship and for a job in a farm. That means we will find a cumulative problem next year. Everyone knows that some 6,000 young people are still on the lookout and have no apprenticeship, although before the summer of this year there was the clear promise of the Federal Chancellor that in autumn all the job seekers would have a training place. – That is not the case until today. And ultimately, the young people lose confidence in the policy-makers' ability to resolve when big announcements are made and the result looks like what is available here today: a small, a tiny change to the federal procurement law. This is the only change that has succeeded in this Federal Government for months on the question of apprenticeship training and youth employment! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Where are the other measures? [[Abg. Haigermoser: Where?]] Where are the things that have been addressed by the speaker of the EIA? It is said that the Federal Government is working day and night to solve the problems. Why is there no tax reform in the direction proposed by the EIA, namely the creation of a 30 per cent training allowance for firms? [[Abg. Donabauer: You wouldn't go with me!]] I guarantee you: You will now have thousands more apprenticeships if you take part of the training costs away from the enterprises. Where is this initiative? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Where is an initiative to implement a vocational school reform? Where is an initiative to revitalise the polytechnic course? Where is an initiative to finally set up the field of operational structures as regards protection provisions? We all know that all these things ultimately happen only if you are prepared by the coalition to decide by a majority. They therefore have the power to decide whether thousands of young people are without a job or whether thousands of young people get a chance. You don't trust us to do it! [[Abg. Donabauer: They make too many superficial suggestions and too few concrete!]] We agree on certain measures, but whenever you stand out here at the speaker's desk, you leave the civil court. This is the case with the liberals as a majority. You just don't get inside! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] As you would rather reveal the interests of thousands of young people – no question at all – you would rather reveal the interests of the traders you promise to solve their problems, Mr Donabauer! [[Abg. Haigermoser: Interesting!]] Of course, that's it. But we are already satisfied that at least one has to do something. Now try about awarding under the Federal Procurement Act. On the other hand, we know that, for example, the Linz labour market service has already announced that all apprenticeships are funded by 1. January 1998 because money is no longer available because everything has been powdered out in autumn. The continued promotions for apprentices who have already been promised should be withdrawn. [[Abg. Riepl: That's not true!]] Excuse me, I got this! If you want, I can read it to you, my dear colleague. The newsletter of the labour market service Linz, in which this is explicitly contained, has not yet been demented by the labour market service. I therefore think that what we are doing here is really just a drop on the hot stone. If we agree today, then the government should only encourage it to take action in other areas, in accordance with the initiative. I have to quote Mr Donabauer once again. He said: Not everything can be regulated by law. Right, Mr Donabauer! But because we're just under the federal procurement law: At least corruption can be fought by law. That would be a possibility! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the liberals.]] Because the Secretary of State is here: Indeed, the Federal Law on Granting does not primarily have the task of promoting apprentices or houseing young people, but rather of preventing abuses and abuses. And, unfortunately, that doesn't work either. I have here a whole package of agreements in the construction industry in public procurement. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Interesting!]] For example, at Hochführungs AG, date of issue: 26. July 1996, 10 a.m.; this is a sum of 139 million schilling, which is not a small thing. Many youth jobs could be promoted if the best and cheapest bidder received the order. ==References== ==References====External links== July 1996 at 8.30 p.m. between the construction companies – working group Stettin, Porr, Brother Haider, Alpine – talks take place to make an agreement. And it has been agreed that in the case of the cover, that company that is willing to give up a surcharge should receive a million schillings. This million is expected to flow on the basis of two catched invoices, which has also been precisely agreed. There was a second conversation between the managing director of the company Stettin and the head of the construction company Haider, namely, on 17 November. ==References====External links== An amount of one million schilling was fixed net. As a contact person for the price agreement of the beneficiary working group Porr-Alpine-Haider, the managing director of the Brothers Haider, Erwin Haider, was appointed, and after the award of the contract, the sum for which, as it were, a distance payment should be transferred immediately. At 10.10 a.m., I already had everything under the roof and the compartment, according to the documents available to me. The agreement was confirmed by Mr. Esterbauer of the company Alpine in writing by fax, and with the note: Okay, Baulos works!, the agreement was supposed to be completed. - I've documented this very well here. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Well, what do you say now?]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: How in Sicily!]] 139 million Schilling, agreement company Porr – it is not unknown to the Social Democrats, a high Social Democratic is the Director-General. They're all in there. I still have many such examples of agreements in the construction industry. Mr State Secretary! It would be good not only to think about how to accommodate young people in public contracts, but also how to save millions of losses due to corruption. We can thus secure thousands of jobs in this country! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I'll tell you something more – I'll publish it later: There is, for example, a text that shows that the construction companies, which are all major contractors of the public sector and live almost exclusively by the public sector – universale, the construction holding of Mr. Hazelsteiner, I wonder where he is today, civil engineering, Stettin, Porr, Stugag, Strabag, AST, Hofman & Maculan – are recipients of a contract, after which agreements on all tunnel constructions in the railway and road construction are to take place by the year 1999 with ponale payments and similar things, protection payments as at the Mafia. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Where is the hazelsteiner?]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: This is like the Mafia!]] I really ask you now, Mr State Secretary, whether these procedures, which you have been informed of, would not be sufficient. Several ministers have received these documents – no one has ever intervened, no one has asked to block these companies, as provided for in the Federal Procurement Act. No one's stepped in! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I reserve the right to publish all these things gradually, so that it becomes clear how hypocritical things are being done in Austria. Here you get out and say: We want to do something for the young people, but at the same time one closes the eyes where millions of serious corruption is carried out at the expense of taxpayers and ultimately thousands of jobs are destroyed.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e6094	Mrs Hagenhofer has reported an actual correction. Madam Member, I give the floor to you. Speech time: 2 minutes. Please start with the facts you want to correct.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e6140	Mr President. Mr Haider has said here that he knows a circular letter from the AMS Linz, which says that all apprenticeships are deleted. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Per 1. - Yes!]] ==References== January. I'm correcting: The fact is that while the additional promotion of apprenticeships has been removed or suspended, it is not the promotion of apprenticeships for the disabled, for the disadvantaged and for the long-term unemployed. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: And what are you correcting?]]
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e6236	The next speaker was Mrs Petrovic. 10 minutes of voluntary time limit. – Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e6257	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Hagenhofer, that was a rather sad actual correction. [[Demonstratative condolences with the liberals.]] Because you know how we all – or at least those who have an intense interest in social administration – that not only does enlargement take place, but at least in Upper Austria, a drastic restriction on the promotion of apprentices and that there are very radical cuts in employment projects in particular. I am convinced that you have the same requests for help on your desk, which is about special projects, particularly affected groups whose projects are in front of locking. I do not mean it at all polemic if I say that we should really consider what money is available for in this state, since we now have to turn around every schilling several times and still no longer go out. The Greens will agree to this initiative with a smiling and crying eye. On the one hand, it is better than nothing when a group of young people in Austria is mentioned and when it is now stated that something has to be done for apprentices. But we are really not happy about the federal law now in force. Mrs Hagenhofer! You know as well as I do that the SPÖ has also made a withdrawal in this matter. The original text of the law was different and I would have liked it much better, because in it the consideration of apprentices was formulated as an obligation, in other cases excluding the promotions. I guarantee you that this would have caused a lot. At the pressures of your coalition partner, this law has been largely watered down, and now it says: It is "to take into account the employment of persons in the training relationship." We already have enough contemplative obligations in the Austrian legal order. As has been said, it is also based on the principle of whether something is possible or whether there are any constraints. "Take thought" doesn't mean any commitment. In the interests of the Austrian apprentices, I would have liked to see an obligation to take the interests of apprentices into account when addressing public services and public funding. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Another point I would like to address, in particular, to the Secretary of State: If I see the way in which social promotions are fought and fought, as well as the way in which they are then taken into account for tax purposes, I no longer understand the principle philosophy of social democrats. As you know, such incentives as are given to enable young people to be employed are to be deducted from wages or salaries. That is, they increase the tax result in so far. This will be done differently in purely economic promotions, Mr State Secretary. Therefore, the funding we show in the various funding reports has very different weights. They remember that we had the debate on promoting art and culture. Now we have the support to recruit disadvantaged people or those who have difficulties in the labour market because, for example, they have not yet been able to gain experience. It has a very different weight for farms when the money comes there as money from tax vessels than when operating subsidies are granted. These are truly tax-free and get 1 : 1 to the operating funds. Therefore, the budgets are also distorted and, in so far, wrong figures are shown. I think that the Federal Government should also think about it. On a third point, which is essential to me, we will have an opportunity to speak today in the context of a urgent request from the Greens. It is no longer a matter of making it clear to the public at all how to solve the problems in the labour market by constantly developing pressure on any group. For example, an attempt is being made to send older workers to retirement as early as possible. Unfortunately, there are also companies in which the public authorities have shares, companies which have a strong close relationship with the public sector, such as banks, insurance companies, the Federal Forest in which pressure is exerted on women from 50 and men from 55 years of age; these are formally retiring into retirement. I think you should at last talk about a redistribution of the existing work, instead of encouraging a group in particular and exerting pressure on the other. There's enough work for everyone, but it won't go on. We must rethink the structures on the labour market and finally be ready to discuss them openly and honestly, too, on a general reduction in working time. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Dr. Niederwieser.]] One last point: The green woman spokesperson Mag. Mr Kammerlander and I will make a request to be given to the Committee on Equal Opportunities, because at the moment he probably has no chance of finding your agreement. I think it is significant that, in the context of a very successful women's desire, women have made a similar claim to those that are now being realized for the apprentices. The women have made the call, which was smiled and ridiculed at the time, that companies should receive public promotions and contracts only if they make a serious concern about equality between women. I also brought this concern to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and I was very surprised that there is not the same willingness to include at least this soft wording in the proposal, as we now have the promotion of apprenticeships and consideration for environmental justice. As I said, we will bring this into the Committee on Equal Opportunities. I assume that there is a minimum degree of respect for direct democracy in Austria and a minimum understanding of the need for measures against discrimination against women, and that you have a serious willingness not to shake this request in the Committee on Equal Treatment, but that there will soon be at least a decision similar to that for apprentices in favour of women in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e6345	President. — The debate is closed. Mr President, you have a voluntary speaking time limit of 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e6367	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, allow me to make one comment on the statements made by the two previous speakers. To Mr Haider: Mr Haider! We are discussing a very serious issue here, namely the question of youth employment, vocational training and the prospects for our youth. They have tried to overlay this issue with a scandalizing theme. We cannot check here at speed whether what you have presented here corresponds to the facts. Should You actually have documents which, as you have said, show mafia in the construction industry, I ask you, Mr Haider: Give these documents to the courts and prosecutors, and don't try to change political change from them! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Arbitrator: Procuratorship!]] The issue of youth employment is too serious to be dealt with here with scandalization campaigns of the Freedom Party. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Corruption! You've got to check it out!]] If these accusations are true, give the documents to the prosecutor and the ordinary courts, Mr Haider! [[Abg. Dr. Haider: The whole federal government is watching!]] On the comments by Mrs Petrovic: Mrs Petrovic! They complained here that the wording had been weakened in the course of parliamentary deliberations, but at the same time called for a similar provision for women. I say the following to you: I have always found that this law is an important signal, but not anymore. However, we must also be so honest that with this signal we want to create a certain attitude, a certain form of consciousness. If we consider your proposal regarding women, Mrs Petrovic – you have already started it – then we come to the conclusion that we want to have a law of our own in time for each target group. [[Abg. May. Chamberlanders: Women are not a target group, but they are the majority!]] We should take into account young people, we should take women into account, we should take account the disabled, we should take older workers into account, and we should end up with the following: Only the company receives a public contract whose employment structure corresponds exactly to the Austrian average. It's not practical, Mrs Petrovic! Don't you see that? – You must also have a little reference to the practice as a green person! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Practice is called discrimination!]] But now on the real issue, ladies and gentlemen. We have decided here before the summer an apprenticeship package, which the economy has said is a first important step in the right direction. This apprenticeship package has broken a trend, i.e. the trend of the declining willingness to train firms. We currently have about 50,000 new teaching contracts – at the end of November – which is a 5.7 percent increase. A long-standing trend has been halted, and I think that the efforts of government, Parliament and the economy have been successful. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We also know, however, that we are facing a very difficult year because in 1998 there will be a strong birth year in the workplace market. I am therefore one of those who stand up for it – and we are starting to do so – that we are already in the pre-parliamentary area today – Mr President, I know that we are of one opinion – in order to link up a package on how we are dealing with youth employment and apprenticeship training in 1998. [[in the direction of the Abg. Verbatim]] I would like to admit that the package that we decided on this summer was successful and was therefore taken a first step, but I think we will need further measures to solve the problem of apprenticeship employment, youth employment and the training of our youth next year. I am just saying a few words – I know that we are not yet in the same position on all points – which should be included in an overall package. We need to discuss without any taboos the problem of young people, Mr President, in which the criteria of learning ability and the willingness to learn are discussed. I think that, if we want to prevent young people from slipping into auxiliary workers' status, we must very well discuss the subject of participation, even if this is repeatedly rejected by some trade unions. Participation means partial qualification, and thus it must be prevented that young people are ultimately unemployed as auxiliary workers. Ladies and gentlemen! We will also need to discuss whether it is really fair to impose the compensation for apprentices for the time of vocational schooling. There are no other groups of people who are burdened by schooling. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We believe the taxpayer that every year our universities train thousands of sociologists, political scientists and psychologists, whom we cannot all need in the economy – I say so. But we say about the highly needed professionals: For this purpose, the enterprises are to pay to the fullest extent, even for the school they are to pay. It's not going to be that easy, ladies and gentlemen! I come to the conclusion. I am glad that we are sending this signal today. This is not a patent recipe, but a small mosaic on the way to solving the problems that are undoubtedly future issues of our country. Because the most important capital we have in the economy is the human resources, and the best investment there is the investment in the training of our employees, especially the young employees.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e6487	According to the current state of the art, Mr Magistrate is. Firlinger the last speaker in the debate on this item on the agenda. Deputies! You have a voluntary time limit of 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e6509	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to refer to Mr Hagenhofer's statements. What Mrs Hagenhofer has done was hair-splitting. It has said that there is no such thing and that Mr Haider is wrong. [[Abg. Hagenhofer: That's not what the AMS says!]] Then she came to the speaker's desk and put in such a small correction. Mrs Hagenhofer! I would like to say the following: Read what your own labour market service has written about it, all with effect from 1. January 1998 will enter into force – published by the labour market service, 20. ==References== [[Abg. Hagenhofer: I know that!]] Claim You are therefore not such perverting facts here! I must say this with all clarity, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Even your group colleague, Mr. Ackerl, will assemble this in the "Krone" issue of July 27. November: Teachers' money is missing from social projects. He's making an alarm. All this isn't for you, you're negated. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hagenhofer.]] – Please read it! ==References== November, Mr. Erhard Gstöttner writes a comprehensive article on this in the daily "Oberösterreichische Nachrichten". – Read the newspapers first, and please go out after that! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Hagenhofer: I didn't argue! I just pointed out the corrections!]] But let us now come to the real problem, ladies and gentlemen. While there has been some indignation when Dr. Haider once again declared the fight against corruption, in particular corruption in the field of public procurement, in this context no one has made an actual correction, no one has said that it is wrong. [[Abg. Swimming: Unbearable!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr. Dr. Stumvoll has stepped in here and has said in an act of helplessness: That's to be proved first! [[Abg. Sweam: You give the impression that you're the Rosinante for Don Quichotte!]] Mr President, I would like to say to you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council: Dr. Haider will hand over the documents and evidence to the courts, but then if he thinks it is right, and not if you prescribe it! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: So that the companies are warned!]] – Why this great excitement? [[Abg. May. Steindl: Stupid!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] I would like to say the following to the Federal Procurement Act: Some of the previous speakers have already suggested that it is a small step in the right direction. But one must be clear about the scope: One may be able to secure 400 to 500 teaching places, but the big throw is not. The big throw should have happened at a time when you fought out of the coalition parties on devils. You've been running hair clefts, there's words thrown into the scales, and at the end of the day you've got words. She said: We need a coalition committee. That is the reality, ladies and gentlemen. But on the question of apprentices, you didn't do anything. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Schwemlein: And in the meantime did you recruit apprentices?]] Now you may be able to include a few hundred teaching places through this sensible provision in the federal procurement law, but that is, as I said, only the beginning. The problem is that there are thresholds under the existing EU Directives, where EU standards are exceeded. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group! They have a trade union president who, in the European Union, performs the function of an ETUC president, the role of a President of the European Trade Union Confederation. [[Abg. We're proud of it!]] Its task will be to go to the EU authorities and to draw the attention of the EU Commission to the need to either increase the thresholds or to introduce other provisions into the existing EU directive, so that the apprentice enjoys European protection and that the awards must be equipped with an apprenticeship clause across Europe. Because one thing is clear: A threshold of 69 million schilling in the construction industry, for example, is quickly achieved, because one can only do something conditionally. A threshold of 1.8 million schilling for other assignments – that is the current threshold, until which national policy has scope for action – has also been achieved very quickly. Finally, you have to put in place the appropriate measures here – you always claim to be so strongly anchored in the European Union – so that the European Union can finally implement an apprenticeship chapter, contrary to the previous practice of the announcements and the non-in-the-tat implementation. I would like to tell you that, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to make one last point on the award law. I don't know if the following is known: There are constitutional concerns, most recently expressed by the state lawyer Professor Dr. Korinek. He said that federal procurement law was unconstitutional in some of the provisions and suggested a comprehensive reform. Our group will now consider this very thoroughly – we will not make it easy – and will submit proposals to you in the committees. Of course, we want to advocate very clear rules of play in the federal procurement law so that any doubt about how to interpret one thing or another can be removed from the existing rules. Ladies and gentlemen! We want clear conditions, and we want to ensure that corruption in this country with clear provisions is finally declared the fight!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e6698	Mr Haigermoser has spoken. Time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e6719	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! As a matter of fact, you had to have a brief opinion. The infinite history of teaching – a positive step that is being taken today, a small step depending on how you see it. The fact is that the Hoge Haus should know that once again you have shoved the entire complex of apprenticeship training in a subcommittee. Unfortunately, at the recent meeting of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, you have failed to comply with our request to negotiate and decide on the apprenticeship package. Mr President, I should like to thank you for your support. This would have been a real "Christmas gift" – under quotation marks – for the apprentices and for the trainees. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Now to your proposal, Mr President – it is important to me that we work out what we differ in: Now what the apprentices are getting, call for more state. President Maderthaner is the spokesperson. More State, you want to say the following: In vocational schooling, apprentice compensation should be reduced, and compensation in pay should be provided for the labour market service. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Are the companies supposed to do this?]] Ladies and gentlemen! This call for more state surprises me, because you have not yet been willing to accept our proposals for taxation. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Ing. Maderthaner: This is a call for discharge from the teaching companies!]] We say: Down with the tax and down with the additional wage costs so that the apprentice gets the money from the company to identify with his business even more than before! Do you not know that your demand is the second step towards the state teaching workshops? – The comrades are waiting for it, ladies and gentlemen! It will be said very quickly: If the public hand is financing this, then that is the death of dual training anyway! That is why I am surprised, Mr President, that you have so far not agreed to our demands, which include the co-insurance of the apprentices with the guardians, except as regards the pension. This would give rise to a reasonable reduction in apprenticeship costs and would thus be a step towards more apprenticeships in this country, ladies and gentlemen! Mr President, I should like to thank you for your support. You know very well that a subsidy schilling costs three tax shillings. Of course: Three shillings are taken out of the right pocket, and into the left pocket a shilling comes in. It is disappointing, ladies and gentlemen, that the ÖVP is taking such a course. - I've already understood what you want. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Weak performance!]] You fell over once again. I could almost close with the Bible word: For they do not know what they are doing. But I don't expect that to happen with stupidity. You obviously know what you are doing, but you are going in the wrong direction. The wrong paths are taken. Our requests for ex-taxation and reduction of additional wage costs are the right way. You could give the apprentices a Christmas gift by, for example, signaling to the Chamber of Commerce today that next year you are ready to take over the exams on the part of the Chamber. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Ing. Maderthaner: You didn't pay attention to the chamber day!]] Then you would have made a contribution, even if only a symbolic one; a symbolic one, because it would signal that the apprentices are not yet subject to an examination tax which the entrepreneur has to pay, but that apprenticeship training is worth more to us than your empty words. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: The entrepreneurs are supposed to pay only?]]
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e6847	There is no further word on this point. The debate is closed. The report did not wish for a conclusion. We shall now proceed to the vote, and I would ask you to take the seats. We shall vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 977 of the Supplements. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign of approval. [[Members of the Free and Green Party shall rise from their seats.]] – I repeat the subject of the vote: The subject-matter of the vote is the draft law and the title and receipt in 977 of the supplements. [[Abg. Haigermoser: (in the direction of SPÖ and ÖVP) But that is very embarrassing for you, this call!]] [[Further calls and cheerfulness.]] Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft was adopted by a majority. – Reasons for cheerfulness do not exist in this situation at all. We shall come to the third reading. I would ask those who agree to the draft at third reading to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. The draft was adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report 977. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. - That's the majority. This motion for a resolution has been adopted by a large majority. (E 93.) 4. Point Report and request of the Constitutional Committee on the draft federal law amending the Introductory Act on Administrative Procedures 1991 (976 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e6915	We're coming to the 4th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. There are two words available so far. I would draw attention to the fact that I must interrupt this debate at 3 p.m., unless it has already ended, in order to call upon the urgent question. The first speaker in this debate is Mr. Dr. Herbe. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e6945	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The §-27 request Herbs, Donabauer, is about formal arrondations – I will not go into them any closer – and, on the other hand, about an act of relief from the authorities. It's about a start-up aid for the Bundesasylsenat, which is in 1st place. In January 1998, it will take up its activity, it will be a relief from the authorities, which will be preventive, and not a reaction to superfluous file cabinets. I think that this is also an important act of legal culture. On the substance of the matter, it is a matter of holding an oral hearing when the case-law and appeal make clear the facts. – For me, it is a legal weighting of goods: on the one hand, Advantages of faster decisions – here a needle tube situation is eliminated, which is in principle in the interest of all appeal seekers – and on the other hand, in a few cases, the fact that the matter appears to be wrongfully clarified can be resolved; that is the side of the medal, but is not completely excluded. In these cases, however, the administrative court becomes active after calling. Ladies and gentlemen! So this is an act of administrative relief, of legal certainty, and I think that is from 1. January 1998 will work quite well. In the secure expectation that this provision will not be claimed excessively, and provided that the Administrative Court will act as a regulatory body, I can recommend that it be approved. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e6983	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Stadler. [[Call: Where is he then]] – Mr Stadler is not in the hall, so his debate is not taking place. There is no further mention of this item on the agenda. I conclude the debate and ask you to take the places, because we are coming to the vote because a final word from the rapporteur has not been wanted. I would ask you to come to the hall, because we do not currently have the necessary decision quo. – The decision quorum is now given. We shall vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 976 of the Supplements. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask for a sign to be given to this draft. - That's the majority. The draft was adopted by the majority at second reading. We shall come to the third reading. I would also ask for a sign of approval in this case. - That's the majority. The draft was also adopted by a majority of the third reading. 5. Report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (944) Federal Law amending the Film Promotion Act (989 of Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e7022	We're coming to the 5th. Agenda item. There has been no oral reporting, so we are immediately beginning the debate. Mr Krüger spoke as the first speaker. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. Mr President, you have the floor, but I must interrupt you at 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e7049	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! The adoption of the law on film promotion should have created a special piece of housing. This is because it is a rather unique process that the intellectual author of this film law novel, the director of the Austrian Film Institute, Mr. Schedl, wanted to extend his own contract by means of a law. The situation was the: The Treaty of Mr Schedl expires in two years, and in knowledge of this, he has celebrated to the Secretary of State a government template whose adoption would have resulted in an extension of his contract by another five years, not by contract, but by law. Ladies and gentlemen! The Secretary of State has unreservedly admitted that he himself would have fallen victim to the spiritual author of this novel, since he himself did not notice. It was only about a resurgence of the specialist journalists and politics that this Lex Schedl did not become a big Lex Schedl with a legal extension due to decreed contract extension, but only a restricted Lex Schedl. And why is that so? – It is simply because the power of this director of the Austrian Film Funding Institute has been cemented. I believe that it is symptomatic of the moral image in public households, whose actions are influenced by the government parties, that directors who have been shown to be extremely unsuccessful over a long period of time, if they do not already grant an extension of the contract by law, should be strengthened in their own position. It is really a curious one, ladies and gentlemen, that someone who has been active in the last responsibility for many years – even through weaknesses in the law – has recognised that there is an urgent need for innovation – is also rewarded for his failure to succeed by extending his powers by strengthening his role and simply giving him more empire in his hand. That's really a curiosum! It is usually necessary to send such people to the desert. Ladies and gentlemen! I'll tell you one thing: You lack any kind of reform! For how can I carry out a reform if I restore to the head of those who have not brought anything together in the Austrian Film Institute for many years and with even more powers than he had before? A curiosum is also the question of responsibility. You know that decisions on film promotion are reserved according to the selection committee. I would like to draw your attention, ladies and gentlemen, to the fact that the Government's proposal on the point is absurd that the number of Members of the Selection Commission should be between three and five, because it does not make sense to appoint either three or four or five members and to make the result of votes dependent on the number of those Members. If there are four, they can vote 2 : 2 or 3 : 1 or else 3 : 2 or 2 : 1. I have heard that there should be a unanimous amendment by four parties, which provides that at least a certain number of selection commissioners should take the decisions. [[Call the SPÖ: Five!]] It's five now. But what is this nonsense? . It is that, although the members of the selection committee are allowed to decide on the grounds, the director alone decides on the amount. That's really a little bit of a special kind! I now also welcome the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, who, as one takes away the media, has tried, during the last few days, to pick up lost terrain in cultural policy and to make himself known on a large scale. But if you, Mr Bundeskanzler, had also made yourself aware of film questions and had invited the experts to sit at a table with you and to discuss them wisely, you should never have agreed to this absurdity that the Selection Commission will decide on the basis, but the height after the head of the film institute. Indirectly, of course, only he decides, because...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e7077	Excuse me, deputies. It's 15:00, I have to interrupt you. Do you want to end or continue your debate now? [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Continue!]] Good. I am now interrupting the debate on this item on the agenda, and you will be the first speaker immediately to continue the debate. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Can I just end the one sentence?]] Please, but quickly! I have to keep up exactly at 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e7117	The insidiousness is that the Commission should be allowed to decide on the basis of the reasons, but the level of the decision can be decided by the director, who can, of course, destroy the vote of the selection committee.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e7147	Ladies and gentlemen! I interrupt the negotiations on the 5th. Agenda item so that we can now come – at 3 p.m. – to conduct the debate on the urgent question. Request for urgent procedure by Mr Karl Ölllingenround Comrades to the Federal Chancellor on deficits in the Austrian labour market and employment policy (3388/J)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e7177	The debate is based on a written question 3388/J. In the meantime, this question has been distributed to all Members. A reading by the writer is therefore lacking. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e7427	I now give the floor to Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Oellinger as the first questioner the word to justify the request, in which according to § 93 para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed the speaking time of 20 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e7448	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr State Secretary! We have addressed the question on labour market and employment policy deficits to you, Mr Bundeskanzler, because you are dealing with employment, labour market policy in the past and also with Your approach to government has also been seen as a central issue of your work or the work of the Federal Government. That is why we have also referred a corresponding quote to the beginning of our urgent question. That's what it says: "The focus of labour market policy must not be on managing and providing unemployment. The focus must be on an active labour market policy that counteracts all the adverse effects of the loss of a job – from the loss of skills to the loss of self-esteem and motivation to the increasing difficulties in reintegration – and which constitutes an effective means of mediation." - You did that on 29 October. ==References== A few months later, your Federal Minister for Finance, Edlinger, made a statement that did not affect the issue of labour market policy, but that the topic of employment or full employment had been considered as the focus of his efforts as Minister of Finance and in which he stated that the achievement of full employment was an important political goal for him and for this Federal Government too. In the past, we have tried, in several requests to the Federal Government, to find out to individual ministers how this Austrian government will position itself within the framework of EU-wide coordination and attempts to make employment policy, and, of course, in addition to the usual standards, it has always been the commitment to a full employment policy and also the responsibility of the national legislator or executive for this policy. A few weeks ago, there was an employment summit in Luxembourg, which did not decide on an EU-wide coordination, but it was very well established that the individual countries had to develop national employment programmes. Since in the meantime there have already been some announcements by members of your Federal Government and some positioning attempts by parties and there is not much time to make the questions of a national employment programme the subject of a political discussion, because in the spring of 1998 already the answers must be present and because 1998 is also a central year for us internally political for defining the priorities not only of labour market policy, but also of employment policy – I will try to explain that in detail – we have addressed this urgent question to you, Mr Bundeskanzler. Because there are some incidents – not least in connection with the budget debate that we had here in this House – that concern us. For example: Where should the resources for this employment and labour market policy come from? Where do you want to take these funds, if not those who are now in unemployment? This concerns us, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, and has led us to put this urgent question to you, because we expect some things to happen or happen here and because, for example, some will be decided in this House tomorrow, which we are convinced that it will bring more risks than it can solve problems. Federal Chancellor! We are afraid that this attempt to establish a national employment plan, a medium-term employment programme could lead to the first time to forget the short-term objectives of employment and labour market policy. And this fear is not unfounded, for example, if you look at the figures on the labour market. It is currently true that there is an increase in unemployment in over 50 years of age by more than 17 per cent, in which over 55 years of age – not differentiated by sex – there is an increase of almost 30 per cent compared to the previous year, with over 60-year-olds increasing unemployment by 40 per cent, and in over 55 to 60-year-olds by 35 per cent. These are figures, Mr Bundeskanzler, who is alarming, and these figures are explainable, because, according to our presumption, there are other points of reference – the labour market policy in this year was quite clearly aimed at financing the relatively expensive but also quite useful – I would think, even if this had to be considered more precisely, apprenticeship and youth employment programmes. On the other hand, there is nothing to say about the problem of financing, however, that the labour market service has no resources, because it has used them to finance pensions, and because the possible resources available not only in 1997 but also in 1996 in the budget have been spent on others. I have mentioned the figures to you during the debates on this subject, and I would like to name them once again so that we can see what scope there has been for active labour market and employment policies. In 1995, 870 million Schillings were transferred from the unemployment insurance budget, 4.9 billion Schillings were transferred in 1996 to secure pensions, 4.9 billion Schillings were transferred in 1997 to secure pensions and 7.2 billion Schillings were transferred in 1998, and some 8 billion Schillings will be transferred in 1999 to secure pensions. I do not need to assume that these sums – some 25 billion schilling in five years – could not only be financed much more in active labour market policies, but also in employment policies could develop programmes for areas in which it makes sense, for example in social, environmental services, health, education. The research and technology billions, which have been discussed and discussed here for a long time, would have long been eligible as a long-term measure if you had only used the funds differently and would not have taken out funds from unemployment insurance for pension insurance. We are afraid that these short-term measures will be forgotten, and we also have the fear – and I say this very clearly to you, Federal Chancellor – that the focus on exclusively employment-oriented measures will be forgotten, which often goes hand in hand with new jobs if we do not pay particular attention to what new work is being developed: additional poverty and social exclusion. This may happen if it is not a collective contractually paid employment relationship, but when it comes to – which is clearly discussed in ÖVP travels, which is being discussed very seriously – that we want to abolish land collective agreements, that there is a lot to be done here to create employment, which means jobs, but bad jobs – McJobs. I call on you, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, to state clearly here: Do you really want to announce the collective agreements? Do you really want people to get busy by 5,000 or 6,000 s? Do you really want those who get so busy to receive state support, because employers would like to have subsidies paid even in these cases, as the President of the Chamber of Commerce, Mr Maderthaner, for example, called for? He said: We are willing to guarantee the employment of all apprentices for 1998, provided that the labour market service finances the compensation for apprentices. – This is a statement from the press service of the Federal Chamber of Commerce. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: Then you didn't read it properly!]] Can I read to you? – "If the labour market service makes sense to take over the costs of apprentice compensation when part-time teaching is introduced and when a special tax deduction is introduced, I can give the apprentices full employment on behalf of the Austrian economy." This is not about school-time financing, but about the costs of apprentice compensation. Of course, that would be a pleasure to Mr Maderthaner. He obviously confuses the time when he made this statement with Christmas. You can wish yourself a lot from the Christian child, but, my Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, this cannot seriously be your idea of how employment can and should be created in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! We are not only afraid that an increasing sector of low-cost labour will be found here, but we are also afraid that the provision of funds for further measures, which are not provided for in the budget, will be reduced in the case of unemployment insurance benefits. And – we will then discuss that tomorrow – there is a legitimate fear that some of the measures, for example, with the possibility of being awarded to unemployed persons and emergency workers, should be associated with such an obligation to work in the event of temporary employment. This is, of course, a very exciting thing that you have come up with, but it is a fundamental thing that, although it is possible for those who are unemployed to earn something in addition, when employment is offered by the labour market service for five or six days – that is, no permanent, a temporary employment – and the person who rejects it should be blocked by unemployment benefit. This cannot be your serious fact that you imagine that the labour market service, the partner of the unemployed, will be doing so in the future: offering a job for five days and saying: If you don't accept him, you're, unfortunately, locked!, although there's hardly any way to earn it. It is therefore a question of making very specific changes in the labour market. Of course, this can be seen in the context of what is being discussed at European level. Of course, in some countries with quite a different tradition, even with a completely different design of labour market policy, of employment policy, with other social conditions, there are also attempts to get the unemployed back into the labour market through forced measures. And I, Mr Bundeskanzler, would like to hear from you and you, Mrs Bundesminister – I welcome you – from members of the Federal Government whether this should also be an Austrian policy, whether it is planned or can be understood otherwise under labour market policy, namely to enable the unemployed to return to the labour market, to help them through training measures, to provide them with temporary access assistance, to enable them to enter the labour market. However, if you are planning this, ladies and gentlemen, you have to explain why in Upper Austria exactly those work and training projects covering this sub-sector are being recruited. They provide training and transit jobs for people to enter the labour market for people who are difficult to find. It is in Upper Austria, and this is currently the most striking of 400 people to whom these work and training opportunities are to be removed. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Chancellor! We call for an explanation in this direction: Which labour market policy do you intend? Should the unemployed be pushed into the labour market without additional employment being offered to test them, so to speak, and then send them back home without unemployment benefit, or does the Austrian Federal Government have concrete plans? If you have these, we ask for these concrete plans, then we want to discuss them. We have therefore asked you a number of questions. We also want to know, Mr Federal Chancellor, with what time targets You want to achieve a reduction in the unemployment rate here in this country. When will the Austrian unemployment rate be reduced? You yourself, at the time you were the Minister of Finance, declared during the discussion on the budget in 1996: In 1996, the worst-case scenario for unemployment is 6.8 per cent, and in 1997 it is 7 per cent. Worst case! They do not assume that this worst-case scenario actually occurs. They have put in place some measures, including in the area of unemployment statistics, also in the field of exclusion from the unemployed, which make it realistic that we are just passing this brand, but unemployment is increasing in Austria, unemployment is increasing, particularly among the problem groups. And this is a problem that we should take very seriously. [[Federal Chancellor Mag. Climate: Thank God not for youth!]] With the youth, thank God, not at the moment. You yourself know, Mr Bundeskanzler – well that you have given me this key – that the situation among young people will be unchanged next year. This means that there will be the same, very high funding for young people, but this will add to the other labour market problem groups. That is what the leaders of the labour market service say that this situation is not sustainable. Of course, it makes sense to encourage young people, of course, to encourage young people to be offered and provided with decent jobs, but if the funds are limited as you have done by transferring the funds elsewhere, then nothing remains for the others. Then nothing remains for an active labour market policy, and then there is still a lack of employment policy. They must also declare themselves to be employment policy measures. This can be economic policy measures, which can be working time measures. You have to put on the table a concept that makes it visible that you really want to reduce unemployment in this country within a recognizable time – and that is also the meaning of these national employment programmes. Vice-Chancellor Schüssel has explained that the ÖGB target, the reduction of 4.5 – OECD rate – to 3.5 percent goes far too far. He wants more, that's not too ambitious. But he also said that the labour market must be tied up. – I would have liked to know, Federal Chancellor, whether you would also like to take the shackles of the labour market and what you understand, whether "take the shackles" means that in the future we will refrain from offering collective contractual wages and permanent employment to people, which is part of what we decide tomorrow. Or is the Federal Government still concerned with creating permanent jobs, jobs that can secure incomes, and not just jobs with which to remain poor? These are the topics we want to hear from you: What kind of employment is it about? How much employment is created, and in what time period will it be created? – We ask you to make concrete statements. We want to know from you whether in the future you intend to continue to play the individual problem groups against each other in the labour market. We want to know from you whether you can set up measures which, in fact, can offer to those who have been punished this year, namely the elderly unemployed, those people on transit jobs in the concrete employment projects, a future perspective, whether you want to go here, which will provide the people concerned and not only the core groups on the labour market, but also those on the edge, the disabled, the long-term unemployed, the hard-to-mediate, with a perspective that will enable them to re-enter through work in this society, or whether you want to give up these groups from the outset. We want to know from you what specific projects you are developing next year and where your priorities are, not the core groups. We want to know from you whether you are thinking of extending the funding and where you want to take the money for labour market policy. We want to know, above all, about you, Mr Bundeskanzler, whether, in the next few days following this declaration, the announcements and promises will also follow programmes and when we can expect a national employment programme. Federal Chancellor! We do not want to hold another debate, as we have so often had on employment and labour market policy in this House, where you and other representatives of the Federal Government are coming to the fore and tell us once again that you are working on programmes anyway. We want to know something specific and we want you to work for the unemployed in this country. We want you not to make policy at the expense of the unemployed, not against them, but for them.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e7505	The Federal Chancellor has spoken to answer the question. Mr Bundeskanzler, you have the floor. Your speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e7526	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! In the case of the many questions put to me by Mr Öllinger, and in the case of the right to a comprehensive answer, I shall have to try to get out with 20 minutes. Allow me, Mr Oellinger, to make a few comments at the outset as well as the reasons for your question. I would like to thank you for qualifying the outcome of the Luxembourg Summit as a step in the right direction and recognizing it as such. I believe that we Austrians can rightly be proud of the fact that it was our common position and our common struggle that led to the issue of employment becoming a European concern, that this chapter of employment was included in the Treaty of Amsterdam and that this special summit on employment in Luxembourg has also been held. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We know that this Luxembourg summit is, of course, only the beginning of a process, and we do not believe that everything is already perfect and in order, but that we still need the joint effort of the Member States of the European Union, also in Austria, in order to be able to provide future-proof jobs. And this is a deep political concern because we are convinced that a Europe with millions of unemployed is not a Europe of the future. And I do not want a Europe that does not put people at the centre of the human population, where man is only a two-legged cost factor, and therefore we will continue to have to fight together – and I invite you to do so – for this implementation. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] You, honourable Member, have made a statement from my statement of Government in your statement of reasons, quite rightly, because I believe that the Federal Government is also proving its efforts in this area. With more than 7 billion schilling for 1997, it has set a record budget for active labour market policy, and this will remain so in the coming years. There will be even more resources for active labour market policy in 1998, because, like all of us, I recognise that work for people, as I believe, is a core concern, that it is not a matter of putting one check in the hands of people, but of making people fit for this labour market, as you have rightly said, that they can see the opportunities themselves – keyword: Empowerment of the people. I therefore strongly support the creation of work rather than the financing of unemployment. This is a more just solution for the people who not only provide them with a necessary help beyond the next day, but who, above all, also give them confidence and hope for the future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I believe that this is the only right way to deal with people's concerns and insecurity. If a company, an industrial plant, reduces hundreds of employees, then, of course, everyone else is also insecure, and there is a great uncertainty on the labour market today. I am very clear about the fact that we do not benefit from reducing unemployment compensation, bridging aid and thus giving people less security if they are longer unemployed: Quickly create a new job. It is a question of giving people safety by ensuring adequate care if they are really affected by unemployment and at the same time enabling them to actually take on new opportunities. It is not, therefore, an additional pressure on people by reducing the necessary unemployment support, as you may have seen it. That won't be possible! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I believe that the Federal Government has shown that it is an investment in the capacity of the people in the training sector, and this is also a major focus of these guidelines, which were decided at the Luxembourg Summit. The fact that the skills gap is a major threat to Europe is seen by the European Commission and by every responsible politician. In other words, we must start very early in the training of people. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Oellinger! I am already aware that we are living in this contradiction today: On the one hand, we – thank God – have more employees, but on the other hand, unfortunately, we also have more unemployed. But despite rising unemployment, it must be said that Austria has experienced a decline in youth unemployment. This situation is valuable because it is an important political goal not to give the youth the signal that it is not needed in this society that it does not need to make any hope in this regard. We have been able to reduce youth unemployment in Austria with massive efforts and are, as far as this is concerned, the best in Europe, and we can be proud of it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] On the other hand, we must immediately admit that we have a problem in the range of 50 to 60 years old, which you have also mentioned. I have already said at this point that I deeply regret that it seems that loyalty, experience, knowledge no longer counts, but that because of the advantage of paying a slightly lower wage, many companies release, pour out older workers – let us say it quite clearly and clearly! I know, however, that there is nothing to do with good appeals, and that is why we will take concrete measures, for example in the area of the pension package, to ensure that we also give older workers the opportunity to get a job for those who want to work and want to work. This is an objective of the Federal Government for the next year: Priority programme for the 50- to 60-year-olds. I believe that we must take action for these people who are under enough pressure. In the meantime, we have really created a lot of incentives for older people to actually work longer, and now we have to make sure that they also have jobs available if they want to work longer. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I would now like, ladies and gentlemen, to address your questions very specifically. The first question is: I think it is a very great success that there is not only the guidelines of employment policy mandatory for Europe. In your question, I believe, you have a small uncertainty, because it is undoubtedly the case that the employment summit has reached something towards the balance of the economic policy guidelines on the employment guidelines. It is in no way a sub-order, as you have said, but the employment guidelines at the same level as the economic policy guidelines must be seen as equivalent. These guidelines require the preparation of national action plans. This will not be easy for our country. It will not be easy, therefore, because, for good reason, Austria has always carried the flag of employment policy in Europe in the first place. We will therefore be particularly demanding, and the international community will be particularly closely monitoring what this Austrian national action plan will look like. I would also like to tell you that, of course, we are still very involved in specific questions, such as the commitment to offer a youth a job, employment, training opportunity within six months. Although we have the lowest youth unemployment in Europe, we are the best in youth employment in Europe, we also have as Austrians – and this shows how committed these guidelines are in fact – a very strenuous and very demanding programme ahead of us. The Federal Government will complete the national action plan by March next year with the involvement of the social partners. We intend not only to give ourselves a valued objective, Mr Oellinger, but also quantified objectives on the basis of carefully developed principles, for example with regard to unemployment. I have a lot of sympathy for the 3.5 percent that Mr Vergestnich has called. However, we want to choose the additional way that we are discussing first of all measures, second of these measures to derive the effects of employment policies and thirdly, to achieve an overall objective of reducing the unemployment rate as a common challenge. Therefore, this employment programme will have to be drawn up for the purposes of these objectives. They know that the assessment of what is a full employment level varies greatly in time. In the old Kreisky era, full employment was mentioned at about 2.5 to 3 percent. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] - I can't repeat everything the Kreisky said. I can't do that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A little bit of something can already be useful; we can be quite proud of it. The second question is: Mr Oellinger! I can tell you, of course, that this action plan will also have to include the corresponding medium-term effect. In other words, the action plan will be drawn up for a period of about five years. On questions 2.2 and 2.3: The Social Minister sets out the current labour market priorities on the targets for labour market services. This, of course, takes into account problem groups in the labour market accordingly. There has so far been no mention of a playout of different groups against each other, either of me or of the Minister for Social Affairs. [[Abg. Oils: It happens!]] Please note that we do not want to play against each other, but, of course, we will have to set appropriate employment priorities. On the question 2.4: The individual Länder will, of course, have the financial resources with which they find their results in 1997 against the allegation made. Those measures, which are submitted in 1998 and 1999 respectively, will also be covered in the respective annual budgets. On question 2.5: I believe that you are not right with this statement. This statement is wrong. The expenditure agreements adopted at the beginning of the year will be used as planned. On questions 2.6 and 2.7: The labour market service has been commissioned to ensure that, in line with the effective and efficient use of labour market policies, the projects can be submitted and continued accordingly within the meaning of labour market policy objectives. On question 2.8: The labour market policy targets will ensure what you are addressing in the context of this question. In addition, the EU guidelines provide for, for example, key measures for long-term unemployed. On question 2.9: There is a simple answer to this: No, no, no, On question 2.10: In this direction, rules have already been introduced into the Austrian labour market policy, such as the older unemployed or the special integration aid that you know as a very effective instrument and, as I hope, appreciate. Questions 2.11 and 2.12: I can answer that with a very simple yes. On questions 2.13, 2.14 and 2.15: They know that there will be a number of different measures to be taken in this respect, in particular training and vocational guidance measures, which will also have to be adapted to the individual needs of the unemployed. Therefore, the need for funding is not yet clearly identified in detail. However, labour market policy will continue to strive to develop concrete measures for problem groups and then set out the details in the national action plans. On question 3.1: The labour market service already has differentiated care services which can be offered to the unemployed and those threatened by unemployment, with available resources from active labour market policies for existing needs. On question 3.2: Yes. On question 3.3: In this context, I should like to point out that the rules on the applicability of the unemployment insurance law already require the unemployed to take up decent employment or training or integration. Furthermore, there is no discussion. On the question 3.4: I refer to the answer just given. Question 4.1: There is currently a complete collection system in the labour market service so that information and care provision can be developed and implemented together with the young people concerned. On question 4.2: In this context, I should like to refer to the already existing service facilities of the labour market service, which develop and implement individual information and care services together with the relevant graduates of higher schools and universities. On question 4.3: I do not think this is true. It does not apply because in the past and in the future sufficient resources will be provided for the preparation of the profession, vocational orientation and the promotion of apprenticeships. On question 4.4: As in the past, sufficient information and support services from the labour market service will continue to be available to the groups concerned. The question 4.5: The labour market policy targets for labour market services explicitly include these groups. They will continue to be taken into account in the planning of labour market services in the future. I believe that, in particular, passive support from unemployment insurance can be activated for labour market promotion. Questions 5.1, 5.2 and 5.3: The social partners will be involved in the preparation of this national action plan, as already mentioned. The details of the reduction of working time, the treatment of overtime and all these things will be clarified in this context. This is for good reason because in Austria, for example, the question of reduction of working time was always a question of the social partners and the industry-friendly solution has proved itself by collective agreements and should therefore also be planned in the future. On question 6.1: Equal opportunities for women and men in all policy areas is generally a focus of this federal government and, of course, also in the labour market field. All labour market instruments are also used for the objective of increasing the level of employment of women. I should like to point out here in addition special measures for re-primary women. On question 6.2: The draft regulation will be revised and, after completion, made available to all the parliamentary clubs of Mrs. Federal Minister Hostasch. On questions 6.3 and 6.4: Allow me to say at the outset that the Federal Government has already given an important boost to the development of childcare facilities with the "Kindergarten 600 million" – it has not become a billion – and thus to support the reconciliation of work and family life. In the 1997 Financial Balance Act, where the Federal Government has provided the countries with one-off grants of the 600 million schillings mentioned above for the establishment and promotion of childcare facilities, the corresponding procedures have been laid down. In the meantime, most of these funds have been actually granted to the federal states by the Federal Commission, which was set up for this purpose. In parallel with the allocation of the 600 million schillings for the creation of childcare facilities, the Federal Ministry of Women's Affairs and Consumer Protection is already intensively concerned with the preparatory work, for example, on the occupational image of day-parents. I believe that this is an essential step in developing this proven model and creating a uniform quality standard of this possible new job throughout the country. Finally, I would like to say that, in particular, the federal states, in their areas of competence, as you know, the creation of childcare places, will have to step up their responsibilities in the future. The Federal Government will repeatedly demand this responsibility and, accordingly, will again be a major priority in the course of the next financial equalisation negotiations on the development of childcare facilities. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] On questions 7.1 to 7.4: It is certainly known to you that the employment summit has set a very clear timetable for 1998 and thus also for the Austrian Presidency. This roadmap is in line with our intention of choosing the continuation of this political momentum in employment policy as one of the priorities of the Austrian Presidency. Employment policy is a key element of integration policy efforts to ensure the European welfare level. This roadmap reads as follows: Following the adoption of the Employment Guidelines by the Council of Labour and Social Ministers in December of this year, the national action plans will be drawn up, which will then be examined at the Cardiff European Council in June 1998. And the first comprehensive evaluation of these action plans and the adoption of the new employment guidelines for 1999 are then to be done at the Vienna European Council. The liability of these guidelines stems from the obligation of Member States to take them into account in their implementation and to actually review the national action plans by means of a multilateral monitoring procedure, i.e. monitoring. I believe that this creates a monitoring pressure, an implementation pressure that cannot be underestimated at all. The fact that the publication of unachieved targets is a very large motivation factor for every government is known to you. It is probably a greater than the deposit of money and the loss of interest, as we are discussing it in the field of monetary union. The review of the current implementation at the Vienna European Council will, if this proves necessary, of course also lead to adaptation, adaptation and thus to further development of the employment guidelines for 1999. Whether the Amsterdam Treaty will be in force in December 1999, I cannot tell you at the moment because the prerequisite for this is, of course, the conclusion of the ratification procedure in all the Member States of the European Union. You know, however, that the conclusions of the Amsterdam European Council provide for an operational advantage to employment policy, and I believe that this will not worsen the outcome. Finally, I would like to say that Austria will do all it can to ensure that the implementation of the employment chapter will lead to concrete, tangible improvements in the labour market situation of Austria and the Union. And only by this active attitude can and will there be a further development of EU social and employment policy. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e7630	We are now entering the debate. I would remind you that according to the Rules of Procedure, the general speaking time for each club is 25 minutes. No speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes. I shall now be the first speaker in the debate on Mrs Magistrate. Mr Kammerlander. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e7657	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Bundeskanzler, you have begun by saying that you will fight for the implementation of the measures decided at the Luxembourg employment summit. What always surprises and surprises me with the Austrian politicians who go to councils and councils and make great promises in Austria, for which they will fight for everything for which they will work, is that in the meantime they cannot make so much critical distance, to say: We have wanted more, but we have not achieved it!, but they then come here and explain that everything is so wonderful and they will now fight for implementation. – That, Federal Chancellor, no one is taking you away anymore, except perhaps some of your Members or your comrades. If one considers the European feedback to the public and public perception following the outcome of Luxembourg, it is clear that the general echo was: All that was promised was not achieved. Once again a summit of many words without results, Federal Chancellor! I wonder, therefore, where you will put your combat stake where you will be fighting when something has actually come out. Leave You are putting this into practice on the basis of some of the things you have mentioned. As regards the situation of Austria: As far as active labour market policies are concerned, we are at the end of Europe's statistics. We've kept this to you before. So where are you going to fight there? We already have an absolute deficit in expenditure compared to other European countries in terms of active labour market policies. And you say you want to create work instead of supporting unemployment! You have done exactly the opposite with your policy in recent years. They have always saved with exactly these pots: You have reduced the measures, you have reduced the resources that have gone into active labour market policy, you have been in need, because of course this was not possible, you have supported unemployment, but of course you have also put in place drastic measures with the savings packages of recent years. You have done the opposite of what you say and what you pretend to fight for. Their credibility, Mr Bundeskanzler, has reached zero in this regard. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You said in your reply that in 1997 we spent 7 billion schillings on active labour market policy. However, you are not saying that this is pathetic in Europe's average. [[Federal Chancellor Mag. Climate: More than before!]] – More than before! But again: On the European average, it is pathetic and we are still in the final analysis of active labour market measures. If you say that we want and will give people security, I wonder who of the many unemployed outside, so outside of this house, who of the many unemployed women, who of the many unemployed young people still believes this. You have been promising for years that you will give assurance that you will take action. [[Federal Chancellor Mag. Climate speaks to Abg. Dietachmayr.]] I would be glad, Mr Dietachmayr, if you would talk to the Federal Chancellor afterwards. Federal Chancellor! Luxembourg was not the first summit to decide on measures and review procedures. There's a long list. Since 1974, but at the latest since the Essen Summit, national governments have committed themselves to active action, national programmes and review procedures. I ask you: Where are these measures, Mr Bundeskanzler, in the course of the savings packages and reductions you have made? Where are the results of this review procedure in Austria? – There are no results, there is no evaluation, there is no sanctioning of all these measures you have promised for years! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Federal Chancellor! In which areas do you want to give people safety? Do you think that this promise is still coming to people who are out of work and who are excluded – and above all through your policy? They say that we are concerned with the qualification and training of young people. – I could provide you with a long list of savings measures in all areas of education, especially in terms of the qualifications and training of young people. This starts at school and goes through the teaching professions to the university. The savings fund was established everywhere at the expense of the qualification measures, at the expense of the quality of what skills and training should be. Do you believe, Mr Chancellor, that, in the face of such a programme of savings, you can still make it credible that you have in mind the qualifications and training of young people? – In recent years, you should have set quite different political priorities. They also pointed out that we are the best in youth unemployment, that we have reduced the number of young unemployed. But they seem to have overlooked the smallness that we do not have a statistical record of youth unemployment at all. I therefore wonder how you can even say something like that. How did you find youth unemployment, except perhaps in personal discussions at election events? What can you say that youth unemployment has fallen if we do not have any statistics on it? We do not have any in the field of school leavers in particular, and we do not have any in the field of university leavers. In other words, we do not have a statistical record of all those young people who have never been on the labour market who have never had the opportunity to get a job, a job. – Mr Chancellor, how can you say good conscience that we have reduced youth unemployment? That's just not right! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] They do not know how high youth unemployment is and how high the dark figures are. You say in your reply, for older workers there are very specifics in the pension package. Especially in view of your actions, the older workers will fail! Years ago have They encouraged older workers to go to early retirement and believed that they could reduce unemployment. Now, in this area, you are imposing sanctions, and you think you have to make up for it again. What kind of attractivities should there be here? Finally, I would like to read to you something that is essential to me. It will not come to play out any of the different groups that are unemployed, you have said. That's not in question at all. There is an extension of the measures. – You don’t say when, you don’t say how high, you’re also not saying that funds have been removed from the labour market service. They say there's no interplay. However, I have here a letter from Upper Austria stating that 300 million Schilling will be applied to youth employment programmes and that a number of projects and measures will be saved for this purpose. These are 11 training projects that concern 200 students, 17 quality training projects and so on. There is a long list of measures taken only in Upper Austria at the expense of other workers. And you're saying there's no match! That's just not right! In recent times, we have repeatedly received letters from operators of training projects, from skills projects, for example women, that these projects will be saved, that they will no longer receive funds to reduce funds. How can you, Mr Chancellor, get out of here without turning red, say that there will be no playing out among the various groups? [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: He's red!]] That's just not right! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] My conclusion to the Presidency is: Federal Chancellor! It is unfortunate if you present to us the calendar of what is planned next year, and not to say what Austria is going to use, namely for quite clear quantifications, for clear sanctions mechanisms. Everything else isn't worth the paper it says. This is what we have known since food, and we expect you to comply with these concrete measures.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e7740	The next speaker is Mr Deputy. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e7756	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been said on several occasions by the previous speakers that the finding is very true that the summit that has recently taken place in Luxembourg is a sign. This may seem too much to one another. I personally believe that this summit will lead to a turnaround within Europe. We must always note that money seems to be more important than individual people when it comes to jobs. This could now be found again on the occasion of a new bank merger in Switzerland. You know, I have repeatedly expressed my ideas in this regard to the public. I believe that one would have been able to go the same way as the monetary criteria in which one has agreed very loosely on a political objective – 3 per cent and four more criteria – without classifying and presenting implementation in the individual countries. However, I am convinced that it is a success that these measures have been adopted in Luxembourg. The Austrian Federal Government would have had it easy. It could have leaned back and said that the Austrian unemployment rate was developing in a dreamlike way internationally. But she didn't. [[Abg. Gaugg: But go!]] The Austrian Federal Government was one of the few governments in Europe that has taken place and has said that we need employment criteria, we need concrete objectives, which we also need to implement accordingly. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There has already been this path, starting with President Delors, who has already pointed out the problem in his White Paper in 1994, up to the meeting that has already been discussed today in Essen, but also in Amsterdam. I am convinced that, even if there are still concerns, it must be our concern to continue to improve the employment situation accordingly in our own country. We must not be satisfied with the 4.5% unemployment rate by EU measure, which means that almost 250 000 people are without employment. So many have never been busy, you must not forget. [[Abg. Böhacker: How many part-time workers are there?]] That does not mean, however, that we forget about the unemployed, and that is why I also believe that we must do our homework in our own country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that we are serious about employment shows, among other things, that next Monday in Luxembourg the Social Ministers will talk to the social partners about the implementation of concrete measures at European level, so that not again, as in Essen, as in Delors or as in Amsterdam, only talks and nothing concrete will be implemented. Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! But we will certainly not implement those proposals made by your colleagues in Lower Austria, such as the total abolition of workers' protection provisions, which in the view of the FPÖ delegate are only anti-economic. That apprentices are lice that paralyze the businesses, that is FPÖ-diction and not ours! – This is from your own colleagues. [[Abg. Koppler: That's crazy! Typical!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I believe that it is rather our task to convince all European institutions that the Austrian path is another. The fact that the National Bank is also responsible for employment in addition to the money value certainly does not fit many in Europe at all. But I am proud that this is a subject in Austria in the reorganisation of the National Bank and that it is not the same as in other countries where a Mr Duisenberg can say: Well, who knows if that's right? Or a Mr. Zeitmeyer says: I'm just responsible for the money, not for employment! – I believe that this is an important approach, ladies and gentlemen. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] It's about four main strategies. Firstly, to improve employability. Mrs Kammerlander! I cannot follow you if you ask how to detect youth unemployment. It is very likely that youth unemployment will be detected. From the moment a young person goes to work and says: I want to have work!, this person is registered – whether man, woman, young, old. It is present and not present as you claimed here. I also believe, for example... – Moment. [[Abg. Oellinger: What is he doing at the employment office?]] It was said that we cannot see youth unemployment. Second point. It is also a matter of finding a solution for double messages available in schools in educational establishments. This can be fought with a simple means from my point of view. We should use the social security number as registration, then we know who has twice reported or where efforts are necessary. I do admit that we are always there or there with the fact that on the one hand the need is very high, on the other hand we do not know whether there are double messages. You can solve that very easily. A proposal in this respect is on the table and only needs to be implemented. Any person who registers at school or at the employment office shall be registered with his social security number. You can play that together. Then we have the resources in hand to be able to say clearly and clearly, because or there there are school measures to take, because or there there is more to be done in the apprenticeship sector. Ladies and gentlemen! It has also been addressed to the teaching sector and to fitting: I understand that fitting does not mean low wages or the abolition of holidays, I do not understand in fitting that you change appropriate working conditions. [[Abg. Gaugg: Why do you allow it?]] I understand that fit-making is a common relationship on the question of flexibility, on the question of the new organisation of work. I think that's much more meaningful than that fit-making, that's what others think. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The FPÖ may already have been aware that it has been talking about locking up in connection with the VOEST and the nationalized industry. You have also expressed this in your party program accordingly. This should not be forgotten during such discussions. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that the promotion of new companies also belongs to it, but also to the new work organisation, which is about moving people to the centre and creating non-current termination programmes, as we are now experiencing. [[Calls and calls between the SPÖ and the Freeman]] I do not think that we in Austria can refuse, but we are on a good path. I would like to point out very consciously the construction projects that we jointly set out and implemented in the previous year. The question of road pricing for trucks has not yet been resolved, we must not forget that. We should not hide behind Germany, but we should take very concrete measures and actions. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The question of overtime has also been raised. I say this very openly: It is not so easy to address the question of overtime. Go to a farm and say to the colleagueship: Overtime should be reduced. How often do you hear: Do you pay me my bill? Do you pay me my advice? Do you pay me this and that? However, I am convinced that it is not possible to increase overtime, but that our action must go in a different direction, namely to reduce overtime, to create full-time jobs and not to ensure that unemployment is managed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meisinger]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Sit in the public area!]] Then, I think, we're on the right track. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There are many areas where you can get started, no matter where that is. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Public sector!]] But I'm not so blue-eyeed about the thing that I'm saying it doesn't matter. I mean, you have to talk to people and convince them about it. There is a new path, for example, already in the printing sector, which is enshrined in the collective agreement, namely that the Works Council can decide where there is a unemployed person, whether overtime is done or not. These are right approaches, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I am convinced that we will only be right – we will only be able to measure a success of the Luxembourg Summit – if we actually succeed in seeing the existing criteria as the first step – not as a solution to the problem – and as a job assignment for the coming year so that people in our country can also earn the euro. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e7937	Mrs Tichy-Schreder is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e7958	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! On the urgent question of the Greens, I would like to say the following: Mr Oellinger, I accept and welcome the fact that you have noted positively that the Federal Government has also committed itself to more employment within the framework of the European Union. I accept that you accept it. - Now you smile. They don't mean it, with a word, seriously. But I think that is a sign of how important it is for Austria to be able to participate in the European Union. [[Abg. Oillingers: You said it, but you didn't!]] It is also easier for us to do so because, within the framework of the European Union, we are among those countries which have the lowest unemployment and the lowest youth unemployment rates, but we are also aware of the responsibility that we speak not only for our country but for Europe as a whole, because each country depends on each other in this area. In other words, we must reduce unemployment by pan-European level. On the other hand, we also know that Europe is facing a particular challenge, namely competition with the markets in the Far East and the US. Europe stands in international competition with the markets in Fernando and in America. In view of this, we must also see that Europe has always gone a different way in terms of employment and social policy than these countries. And we want to go this European path in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If we go this way in the future, we must also be aware that every person who loses a job should be assigned a job and that one must deal with this person and give him a chance to get back into the work process. That is why I am somewhat surprised, Mr Oellinger, that in your question you are saying that you see a danger in focusing employment-oriented measures. – I did not understand; I had to read this paragraph three times. They believe that there is a danger that the problem of rising poverty and increasing social exclusion will be pushed into the background. Mr Oellinger! I would like to say the following: People who lose jobs complain of having united and hardly social contacts. It is therefore particularly important that employment policy should also be pursued in the field of labour market policy. Nothing is worse, Mr Oellinger, than when people are socially isolated. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Oellinger! They have referred to the termination of collective agreements with a view to the termination of collective agreements. It's about something completely different, and I think you should pay attention to that too. A very different example has been used in the United States, which should also be taken into account. On the one hand, people who have been out of work for a long time and are being transferred to businesses, because at the beginning they cannot provide the required services, a lower amount than wage, but from the public hand, from the government, they receive additional support. At the same time, a process of continuing training in these companies is running parallel to that, so that these people can regain the strength to work for themselves, to maintain them and to continue training themselves. That's important! We have found with many long-term unemployed people that they cannot be included from today to tomorrow in a work process because they do not manage to pursue a regular working day. These are particularly serious cases and fates of the individual, and they must be addressed. One should now try to create opportunities to provide these people where they do not yet have to bring their labour force to full, with a partial grant from the labour market service and the operation. Mr Oellinger! Negotiating, talking to people is a task and also needs a work commitment from businesses. I know what I'm talking about, because I have a business with different qualified employees. The use of the individual employees is different. It's about every human being, you have to be able to go into every person. Mr Oellinger! That is why I would like to say something to you: The issue of the Austrian Chamber of Commerce, President Maderthaner, was to be understood in this way – President Maderthaner also said as far as apprenticeship training is concerned, we agree with the Federal Government – that the costs incurred this year in order to create as many teaching places as possible in the enterprises were enormous, and that the funds have been unfairly distributed. Those companies that have always trained apprentices have received the smallest share of it, and those companies that have employed new apprentices for the first time have received additional grants. This is unfair in this system, and this must now be put on new feet. A point of departure to relieve businesses evenly is that the schooling period spent by young people and apprentices in vocational school will be paid and that firms should not also pay an apprenticeship compensation. This is what Mr Maderthaner said in plenary. That is why it is going to be negotiated in the future. Students from secondary or vocational schools are not paid to go to school either. This is an approach. It is very important that Austria, together with the social partners, has recognised that youth unemployment is the worst. Of course, we also need to bring the other workers, the long-term unemployed, through special programmes – there are programmes and promotion measures – back to work. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Oellinger! If you really take the issue of unemployment seriously, how to do this in the future, I must say one thing: At noon, to ask an urgent question with 38 points, which the Federal Chancellor should answer in detail to the smallest detail at 3 p.m. and on the subject he should address to you at Heller and Pfennig, is not serious. [[Abg. May. Kammerlander: It's all so important to him! He'll know!]] Mrs Kammerlander! I miss the idea of holding a fundamental debate here in the House, and your question is worth a fundamental debate. It is worth it that we are dealing with it. But in case of a urgent request, everyone has only a certain speaking time available. And the putting in today is another and in reality not serious enough. I am in favour of taking this debate seriously. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: You don't do this! You're not making any amendments!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] We have time in the committees. What urgent questions we have experienced here. It is a pity, in part, for these urgent questions, and you also see how small the interest is, because everyone speaks only one speech, but usually does not address the previous speaker, but only says: "Hugh, I spoke." – The debates here in the House are much less lively than they were before when we could share principles. In part, this happens in the committees. However, I will try to hold and discuss in detail in the committee which we have set up in the subcommittee on the question of apprenticeships. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You only distribute censorships!]] Mrs. Dr. Partik-Pablé! My speaking time is limited. I'll tell you if you don't know. There are amendments to the Rules of Procedure because of various measures which have actually damaged parliamentaryism. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: Who bent the Rules of Procedure?]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Who prevented us from having proper speaking times?]] Every Member has ideas he would like to discuss, and unfortunately this is no longer possible in this sense. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: We want to discuss more often!]] But one thing I would like to say quite clearly: The economic situation in Austria and also the mood of businesses that want to take up people are better than the mood that is being spread here. [[Abg. Oillingers: We did not talk about the economy, only about the unemployed!]] I know about business visits to a wide range of companies that are looking for qualified workers and not getting them there and there. We need to deal with this so that we can better deal with mediation. We need to consider where we can put in place promotion measures so that businesses that have future opportunities can export, get those workers they also need, namely, well-trained employees, creative people. An important point – for which I am very grateful to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany – is that individuals get enough strength and independence to be able to use their commitment and their labour force in the economy, because work is not only labour suffering, but also work joy and determines the lives of people in this country very much. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Out of loud jux and tollery businesses go into bankruptcy!]]
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e8122	Mr Gaugg is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e8143	Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Tichy-Schreder, you will certainly get the "golden chancellor defense medal". It is rather adventurous that you complain that the Federal Chancellor has only three hours to prepare a request. I will give you another example: Today, pension rights have been changed for 55 000 active railers and for almost 25 000 retired railers. The meeting began at 8.30 p.m. and the documents came at 9.15 a.m. and at 9.30 a.m. the two government parties in old-fashioned manners passed over it once again. The work of red and black is thus seen in this House. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Maitz.]] If I listen to the speeches made by the Members of the two government parties, I think they should open a painting and use Mr Vergestnich as Managing Director. It's sad if you're only suing statements of intent here. If employment in Europe has been such a concern to you, I wonder why you did not ask for it before joining the EU. Now, after the car is finished, it is important to note that it is time to do something for employment, that, as has been said, monetary criteria cannot be the only factor, but also those of employment must be taken into account. I wonder how he considers it to be the president of the ÖGB: On the one hand, it agrees in Austria that additional wage costs should not be reduced, and, as President of the European Parliament, it advocates the reduction of additional labour costs. – This can be read in the newspapers. [[Abg. Verbatim: Reading!]] One gets the impression that at the so-called EU employment summit in Luxembourg, the "Klub of Miide Farmers" met. [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] For all that is contained in the declarations of intent is not new. This includes reducing additional labour costs, preventing youth and long-term unemployment and the like. These are very weak characters that want to sell such things as such. Individual titles in newspapers read: "Earth dances and empty formulas for the employment summit", "An employment summit between dream and reality", "The EU Employment Summit is a flop". - Not for some. For some, the employment summit has been a success, for some 130 top officials of the Austrian Trade Union Confederation, who have fled to Luxembourg for a business trip. I hope they had a pleasant trip. I'm sure it was pretty funny. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Were you with me?]] [[Abg. Silhavy: Were you there?]] There will also be a positive climate and a result for the participants, but there has been nothing for the unemployed concerned; zero! Zero comma zero results. The subsequent mutual patting does not bring a job either. The subsequent one-on-the-student gap continues to increase the unemployment rate in Austria enormously. And Mr Verzellnich, as he said literally, returned satisfied from the Luxembourg Summit. You can now understand what you want, but apparently the air in his penthouse is a bit thin, so that clear thinking is missing something. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Its meagre ideas on the occasion of its 10th anniversary as President of the ÖGB, namely to provide every unemployed person with either a new job or a training site, remain only his wish. I wonder why he does not implement this immediately for the 241 000 unemployed. What's going on? – A few months ago you had the 10-year party, and you don’t do anything! You're not doing anything! You lose members every day. This is the only "success" you can record. [[Abg. Distant: Big speeches!]] Where is your opinion on the situation of apprentices? Why Attack You're not even your Federal Chancellor and the government sitting up there? – They have promised that all apprentices will have a job. 6 000 are still looking for a job. Now I'm telling you, it's not done with beautiful speeches anymore! It is always sold as so beautiful, in reality the world looks very different! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Or Mr. Vice-Kanzler's bowl is quoted – I hope he has actually said so, because he is not exactly aware of this –: The issue of employment is becoming more and more a priority. But now I have to ask quite slowly how long Mr Vice-Chancellor has been in the government. Does he now insist that the employment issue is important? – I ask: Did he sleep lately? We have a sad record in Austria. We will have a record unemployment this winter, as it has not yet experienced the Second Republic. Where are your actions? Where are the initiatives? – All you do is make a net Atlantic debt of over 100 billion schilling and zero investments! This is your employment policy! [[Abg. Gradwelt: The question was about the number of employees!]] And everyone who is looking for work today suffers. 241 352 unemployed per 30. You have no means, Mr President, although you are in the government. The increase in the unemployment rate of over 50 years is 17.4 percent! [[Abg. Gradwelt: The question was about the number of employees!]] We have 100,000 unemployed in construction, but you always complain to each other about how great the Luxembourg Summit was. The public hand reduces its orders because the Baulobby still does not know how to distribute the cake with its corrupt cases. Internationally, Austria is constantly slipping down with all economic data. You don't have to worry about a constant post-down return to economic data. I can tell you the cause: This is a missing social and economic policy in recent years. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Access to self-employment is still difficult, the chambers are a single prevention club! If you need an average of 18 months today until you get a commercial right, I do not wonder that very few still call for independence. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller.]] I have the feeling that these chamber officials, many of whom have been sitting here, have still not recognized the future and the common Europe. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: Don't read an old speech!]] We are now celebrating the inclusion of an employment chapter as a success. It's a game of mourning. There should have been no Luxembourg employment summit, because there would have to be an employment initiative on national level is certainly a matter of course. A government is elected to create jobs and not to organize travel for itself. That was the only thing that brought Luxembourg a trip for the members of the government and for the union officials, that was it. [[Complaints with the liberals]] [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: You just do it! They write a letter to the entrepreneurs and snorse!]] They need their own explanation like the union. This is financed in her newspapers all over with BAWAG inserates and similar more, dear friend! We'd like to talk about it. [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: Schnorrer and Buchstabierer!]] Then the Federal Chancellor says: It can all happen – with costs, with income in the form of a rework. – Now I wonder: Is a shift without budget burden then the wondrous increase in money? How does that work? – Then you say stone and clear to whom you want to take away something and in whose favor! Now it says again: We are introducing the eco-tax to reduce the additional wage costs. Labour costs must be reduced. – You have mentioned this phrase before, namely when it comes to the introduction of the energy tax. It has also been said that this will only come because labour costs are reduced. "Snails"! All you've achieved is a budget relief of around 7 billion schilling instead of fighting labour costs. Now on the most important issue of the Luxembourg Employment Summit: What are the consequences of non-fulfilment of the modest agreements? Is there then a resignation from Mr. Chancellor? Is there a resignation from Mr Vice-Chancellor? How does that look? Where, then, are consequences to be drawn if that does not occur? – We experience this time and again. Now we have a Federal Chancellor who has been in office for a year and has said he will start an employment initiative. - He doesn't. He does not teach the apprentices, all these are desperation actions that have been started, so to speak, a maximum effort in Austria, and the result is that 6 000 apprentices are still looking for a job. I really wonder if you are able to master the future. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Do you know why the Germans and the Dutch are opposed to European employment programmes? – Because additional payments for ineffective employment programmes need to be spent. That's the truth. This means that money disappears in the corrupt EU instead of being used internally. It would be important for active labour market policies to be intensified. [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: That's him who writes snorse letters to the entrepreneurs!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] They have always told us that the social partners are being praised abroad. – In reality, we are at the very end of promoting labour market policies. The change in the name of employment office in the labour market service will not yet take place. That's the only measure you're taking. Even if you are no longer the director of the labour market service, but the managing director, I must say that thinking has not yet taken care of it. All the measures announced so far have not been fulfilled. The research and development billions are waiting. The privatisation of the productively nationalised enterprises is waiting. Now, the euro is coming, with all the more serious professionals pointing out that job losses will occur. The government is not responding. It comes to Easter enlargement, and it is also interesting – precisely because ÖGB President Vergestnich has given such great things of himself and defended the government –: Just this government defends or favours capitalization... – Are you sick? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] Are you hurting anything? [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: You're right, your words are painful!]] [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: We want to know something about your snorter newsletter campaign!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] You should be examined, Mrs. Colleague! It might be a good idea if you were to be examined.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e8394	The final sentence, please, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e8409	The stenographs will be hard to hold on to what you have now given of yourself, because that usually does about three months old children!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e8434	The final sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e8449	I can only say: This government is promoting capital and is not paying much attention to the problem of jobs!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e8479	Mr Dr Kier is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e8501	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! I have taken out only one aspect from the urgent question and have given this particular attention, namely what the Federal Chancellor has said. Unfortunately, he did not really deal with point 3 of the urgent question. It was hidden behind this point 3 more than even the questioners suspect. As a result, I have to criticise Mr Oellinger in terms of content and subject matter: He recognized the problem, but he designed the diagnosis in the wrong direction. It has recognised that the labour market is developing in such a way that work, part-time work may be asked, which is precarious and therefore not suitable to satisfy the individual needs of those wishing to take up this work. He's really recognized that. However, the request has been extended in the direction of changing the labour market in order to demand only work which can also serve to meet individual needs. That's the mistake of thinking. That is not going to happen. Work is not asked for because it is imperative, in the complete sense, as a package, to satisfy individual needs of those who take up the work, but work is asked for because it is needed for a particular purpose. It should also be properly honoured, and I will come to speak on it. But if the work is only a few hours, then even the most proper fee will lead to a result that does not satisfy the individual needs of the one who works. I think it would be a dead end if one tried to order by law, therefore, that only classical full-time work should be requested. We therefore need social systems that respond flexibly to these findings. We need a fundamental right to existential protection as a foundation so that people can move at all, even if they do not find work or work that can only be expected. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] If we find such a fundamental legal position, I must say that such a discussion as it is being held here and the possibility of forcing people to accept a particular job will no longer be necessary. On the other hand, it will be possible for people to take up work in the working world, which alone would not be suitable to satisfy individual needs. - This fork has to be dissolved. There is already much more international discussion than one would suppose if one were to be in this House. The European Parliament has expressed in a resolution, not least in view of the forthcoming employment summit, that, in the light of the analysis I have given you, it is necessary to work towards the interaction between tax systems and social security systems with the aim of reducing the barriers to the acceptance of less well-paid jobs, through further outlining innovative approaches in the field of social policy such as basic income and negative income tax. This is a majority in the European Parliament. That is to say, the intensive search for how we can escape this case and shape our social systems in such a way as to establish a legal claim, to be fundamental and to be able to respond flexibly to the modern forms of the working world. One will have to be very careful that there will not be a split. One will have to be very careful that this does not have a disintegrating effect. This is a very demanding project. And above all, we will have to re-examine what is often called a minimum wage and consider whether it can not only be a matter of avoiding abuse of hourly wages and not following any fictitious monthly wage, which is not the reason why the full working time corresponding to that monthly wage is not asked in all cases. In this case, I would like to say to the address of Members of the ÖVP: If one speaks of basic income and negative income tax, one is occasionally confronted with the accusation that it is about communism. I'll tell you: We like to keep that up, because this accusation testifies to ignorance. This is painful, but you don't have to take it so seriously. More seriously, one has to take the bitter resistance of those who defend the possessions of the present supposed social, but no longer social, systems with teeth and claws, and whether it is the price of a real division of society, at the price that more and more people need to be controlled early, that ultimately not certain women remain unsecured at age, and so on and so on – I could now list the entire latent here – only so that nothing needs to be changed on the existing system of 40, 50 years ago thought-out social instruments so that one can remain, in particular, the workers who do not want to share the work with those who are looking for work. In principle, sharing work means being able to work less time without losing out on it. Such approaches are, of course, combined with what the Liberal Forum, but also other political groups have been presenting for years on the issue of environmental tax reform here, which has been presented by all the experts and by many political groups for many years in order to reduce the additional wage costs and so on, we would have hoped in a reply by the Federal Chancellor. They have – as always – disappeared. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e8570	Mrs Petrovic is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e8591	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Very briefly to the remarks made by my predecessor: Mr Kier, I am absolutely right to say that it is not just a question of how full-time work can be created and supported, but it is a question of what full-time work means and what is a reduction in working time. However, it is also about the compatibility of work income and social benefits. I am convinced that a conversation between us or between you and Mr Ollinger could very quickly lead to joint efforts. But what Karl Öllingerer here warned about has already got a very hard background. For if the Vice-President of this Republic – not anyone – says in the main committee that it is necessary to think at least temporarily about employment under collective agreement, then I believe that the warnings about employment are being pushed into people whose income they can no longer live on, not brains, but a threatening, perhaps soon coming reality in Austria. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] A preliminary remark, a word on the statements made by Mrs Tichy-Schreder. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) If the government parties complain that we have not had enough time to debate in principle, I will not take this entirely. Mrs Tichy-Schreder! Whenever the opposition has started to talk about this very, very serious issue – and I have to say, I really do take the efforts of many political groups seriously whether it is a special meeting of the Liberal Group, a urgent question of the Greens or progresses of the Liberal Forum towards basic assurance – I have not really felt the government's willingness to talk seriously about these issues with the opposition. [[Congratulations to the Greens and Members of the Liberal Forum.]] Mrs Tichy-Schreder, if you can find an ear for me! [[Abg. Tichy-Schreiter: Always!]] I am convinced, without having voted in advance, that the Members of the Liberal Forum and probably also the Members of the Liberal Group will be happy to go along if, as a result of this urgent question, we are planning a national employment summit here and today to deal with the question of how we want to deal with the problems that we all consider to be serious in the future. I'll invite you to: Let us make a survey of this Parliament! Let us allow such a fundamental debate, and let us give it the right space! I would ask you to use your clubman or the clubman of the Socialist Group to ensure that these permanent advances of the opposition are not constantly shaken or placed. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If I may already see this as an effort on your part, I think we could also make this request for a national employment survey a positive one at this part-session. We of the Greens are certainly with us. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Chancellor! I take it from you that matters of employment are very important to you. I believe that you are seriously trying not only to take effective measures for the unemployed, but also for the job-seekers or perhaps the vulnerable workers. But I do not take it from you, and the figures speak for themselves that you have really seriously put the weight of the strongest group in this House on the scales to do everything that no one has to stand on the streets and have no employment. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What measures have been taken? And was everything really tried? Mr Vergestnich said yes, I say no. [[Abg. I said no!]] Maybe it wasn't loud enough. I'm afraid it didn't happen. It was said here that we could measure youth unemployment, we could see the number of people going to the employment office and say: I want... [[Abg. Conspicuous: Otherwise we can't!]] There has already been a different situation, Mr Vergestnitsch, but there has already been a different situation. We know that there are also possibilities to determine who would like to work but already see every chance disappear by means of surveys. Member of the European Parliament! Why, for example, should a woman who may not be from a town in Austria who lives somewhere in the country, where there is no public transport connection, who may have one or two small children who will not find a babysitting place in further surroundings, not even for children under the age of three who may not have their own cars, because the man is using the only available cars, going to the employment office, and saying that she would like to work if she knows that she has no chance any more? If she is told that she has no chance, why should she be frustrated at the employment office every day? Who's doing this to you? You really have to have an extremely masochistic preoccupation to do this at all. We also know from parliamentary questions from the Greens that the number of women who are not looking for work due to the lack of full-day childcare facilities, especially for infants, is at least 50 000. This is also known by the labour market service. It knows that women are being pushed away from the labour market. And I say, There are forces in this house that want that! There is also a Minister of Defence who recommends women to have more children, since this is the actual purpose of women. I'm just asking: What does social democracy do about it? Has You really did everything you could to ask once again the coalition question to ask if there is any political will to put everything in the scales here? Member of the European Parliament, you have not done that. Or the young people. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Do you think that someone who has perhaps even completed a higher education will go to the employment office to get a job there again and again? I'll tell you what the young people are doing: They work somehow, perhaps even – and people talk about it more and more openly – partly at taxes, past social security, trying to somehow put something on the high edge, because they don't expect anything from this state pro futuro anymore. There is no minimum unemployment allowance, there is no minimum emergency aid, there is no real minimum pension in Austria, even there are no statements about the opportunities that young people will have in the future. There are some powers that formally stage globalisation. The rod in the window becomes visible again and again by saying: Look, there are states that have much less social policy. Environmental standards don't have them at all. We can't build that! Globalisation is being staged to promote social reduction to put pressure on wages to pressure women to stop going to employment offices at all. I'll tell you one thing: In Austria, we have an under-average female employment compared with advanced countries, such as Scandinavia. We still have an earlier real retirement age in Austria than in the European average. That's not going out in the back and in the front! We need to re-distribut the work. I would like to say: At the same time, we should distribute money, not with full wage compensation on the top floors, but there is still something to be done below. If you don't give these answers, if we always just give air bubbles from us and say we should work out as possible, then what's happening in Upper Austria now comes out: Twelve places of training, jobs for unemployed women – and that in a rich state! – deleted. Even those women who have not completed their training at the time of the project resolution...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e8681	Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e8697	...must return to unemployment without completion of training. Mrs. Tichy-Schreder! They're looking for skilled workers. You might be looking for qualified women. Here, they are congratulated on having completed their training in unemployment. I would like to hear the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e8715	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Please speak at the end of the sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e8730	I am afraid the Secretary of State will not be able to tell us anything about this subject. But that is the employment policy of the great coalition!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e8761	The next speaker is Mrs Hagenhofer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e8782	Mr President! Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) If governments jointly pursue a goal, this will also lead to success – see Maastricht Treaty and precisely the monetary targets that have been set! I believe that the Luxembourg employment summit is a step in this direction. I am very proud that the European Union has honoured national employment initiatives, namely two from Austria. On the one hand, these are our work foundations and, on the other, the dual training. As regards the work foundations, Austria has a pioneering role to play. I would like to give you a few figures from the practical experience. In Upper Austria, 5,000 people have gone through various work foundations since 1992. Of these 5,000 people, 4,100 are – and you have to keep that in mind: 4,100 people! – work again in new professions in the context of a service relationship. These data are based on surveys six months after withdrawal from the training measure. We can and must be proud of that! And I'm asking: What prevents us from introducing these work foundations throughout the country? All establishments should be obliged to pay in a pot. For example, in the case of structural problems, each firm has the possibility to ensure that its employee or its employee acquires a new qualification. So what prevents us from doing so? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Another last number I'm very proud of personally. With us in the district of Braunau, three out of five work foundations have a success rate of 100 percent. This means that all those who have gone through these three foundations have found new jobs or new areas of training. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Everything in Butter!]] No, it's not all in butter! But I mean, that's what you should work on, and that's Austria. We could also have a pioneering role if we made known the possibility of the educational career decided in the framework of the pension reform in the firms and also forced them to do so. We should call for their use and not always put everything as negative and bad. I would also think that the pension reform has provided a further positive incentive for labour market-oriented training, namely that vocational information is already started in the third and fourth grade and in the third and fourth classes, and not only at the last moment when the school year ends and one is faced with the question of what the child should do now. One should clarify in advance, knowing – as the government has acted very forward-lookingly – that the trend is continuing towards specialist markets. Here I would like to underline the word 'fach'. I am not talking about supermarkets, but about specialist markets; the need of specialized markets will simply be professionals. On this point, I see this combination of our government as very far-reaching. Austria's dual training model was the second best practical example of eleven practical examples within the European Union, particularly highlighted. What prevents us from introducing a – I say now – burden compensation between training establishments and non-training establishments? – I think we also have work to do and should also work. Finally, I would like to refer to my actual correction, which I made in the context of the debate by Dr. Haider. Mr Firlinger said that my actual correction was hair-splitting, Mrs Dr Petrovic said that my actual correction was thin. – The fact is that it is correct. Just as you claim from the liberals and also you from the Greens to be correct, so also allow me, for the SPÖ and for the AMS, which is always seeking correctness to have made this correct actual correction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e8826	The next speaker is Mr Dr Höchtl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e8847	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In the course of this debate, I sometimes have the impression that it is only a matter of doing some kind of black and white painting. I mean, it's really necessary to say this: There is no doubt that what the government parties also imagine and want has not been fulfilled until the last point. There is no doubt that each and every one of the over 200,000 unemployed is always a unemployed or an unemployed person too much, in each case. I hope that is the common view of all political groups. At the speech of the colleague Mag. As a non-informed person, Kammerlander almost had to be given the impression that we were a developing country in Austria in terms of employment policy. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I believe that the important thing with all the willingness to discuss all the improvements is to discuss a situation seriously and make serious proposals. You can then go into this one. For improvements, the government parties are always open. But Austria's position in employment policy as a developing country does not correspond to the facts or to a serious negotiation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I'm going to try to deal with a few points. In these months, when we compare with the past few years, we have a record of self-employed employees in Austria. We have 12 000 employees more than in 1996. Of course, I would rather have 200 000 more self-employed workers, of course there are many measures that we need to take together to improve this. But only the fact that 12,000 people are more busy than last year is something that cannot be wiped away. This is not primarily from somewhere, but is done by extremely large efforts by individual initiatives, by individual businesses, by cooperation between the social partners in many areas. That means being proud of it is not bad. It is good to point out and say: This is a good basis that we need to use in order to make further initiatives! – I believe that this is the basis we should start from where we will continue to have to take additional initiatives – even in the coming year. Second point: Austria is not a country that exists anywhere entirely alone – neither in Europe nor in the whole world. Making politics in Austria also means reflecting on influences that come from outside. But that also means that we have to measure each other in comparison. If we measure ourselves in comparison with all the other countries of the European Union, I also have to say that we in Austria – except for Luxembourg, a country with almost 400,000 inhabitants – have the best employment opportunities; that is, we have the second lowest unemployment rate in the EU. To do so is not a serious assessment of what we have all achieved together. I am always emphasizing and completely d’accord that it is important to be even better, to make something even better. However, this is an achievement that must be pointed out and for which we all have to highlight and thank them, which gives so many Austrians the opportunity to earn money, to have a job, to provide their families. I mean, this has been done in good understanding between businesses and workers. This needs to be further worked out and developed. This is the basis for a good development that we can make in the Austrian labour market. Nearly over 95 percent of Austrian workers have a job. Over 95 percent! For example, if we compare this with our neighbouring country Germany, where there are more than 11 per cent unemployed, with Sweden with more than 11 per cent and with other countries, I must say that the efforts that have been made in Austria have not been without success. When, in the House of Lords and at the speaker's desk, the various contributions are said: Well, the Luxembourg employment summit too, but what has it brought?, I must say to these speakers: A year ago, there was no mention at all of an employment summit and of the fact that we are bringing in the Treaty itself a chapter on employment policy. I mean, it really has to leave the church in the village and compare what was a year ago and what has now been achieved. We are proud of what we have achieved. That we have not yet achieved everything we want is something else. But it is the incentive and the challenge that are necessary in politics and that one has to face. We as the People's Party, together with the coalition partner, are at least willing to accept this challenge. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! There have been repeated complaints that there are, for example, various difficulties in re-founding. We have long discussed and decided on the new trade regulations in the House. It is now no longer necessary – as in many other countries – 200 days for a re-foundation, but only about three months. This is progress! Or: We've been discussing the fundamental saving for a long time. It has been realized. Or if we look at the development of the newly created enterprises over the last ten years, we see that in this year, i.e. 1997, there are more than 50 000 enterprises than in 1987. This does not happen through anything, but through many initiatives and framework conditions created by policy in order to enable such re-foundies. That is to say, in recent years we have undoubtedly adapted to the new conditions in employment policy and set up new initiatives. This applies not only to the apprenticeship initiative this year, but in many areas we have created conditions that dynamically understand employment policy. Dynamics is also necessary because there are different conditions every year. If all of us invite us to contribute to ideas and also to the realization of these ideas, then because we are not satisfied with what we have achieved. We have a desire to unite all, so that the point to be realized next year will be better achieved than this one. That is, some of those who still have the fate of unemployment to complain will have a job next year. That is our task, that is our challenge, and this we are dedicating ourselves to!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e8921	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Chief. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e8943	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In today's debate, there has been a lot of curiousness, which causes me to replicate it. Mrs. Tichy-Schreder! You should remember a few things – even if you are not present now. First: In Austria, despite the efforts of the Austrian Federal Government, there is too little in comparison to the OECD average of 140 000 self-employed. Anyone who makes himself independent "causes" – in the positive sense – in the first year three and in the second and third years about seven new jobs. The efforts of the Federal Government to work in this area and to create new self-employed people – a point which has also been strongly mounted in the Luxembourg employment summit – will not solve the problem in Austria of the more than 200,000 unemployed we now have, and of the supposed 300 000 unemployed in January next year. This is an easy-to-solve mathematical problem. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Feurstein.]] All that Mr Hochtl has said about the facilitation measures by the new trade regulation – Mr Feurstein, you know it yourself – has not taken hold of, does not take hold of, and is at least not to be abandoned in Austria as regards the move to self-employment. On the contrary, Mr Feurstein: Especially in the area for which you are responsible, namely in the healthcare sector, one can now determine a withdrawal from self-employment, at least in the case of doctors, and a clear trend back to the hospitals. There, the measures taken by the Federal Government have had the opposite employment policy effect. I would like to ask myself very well what it should be if, at the same time, the Federal Government announces that it wants to set new initiatives in the field of services in particular. As an opposition politician, you should ask: Are the threats of aggravating the situation, or can we hope that the mistakes of the past will finally be learned and that new jobs will not be rationalized, but will finally be created in the important service sector? Mr. Feurstein, you smile. You will still remember Federal Minister Busek, who has already spoken of a "technology billion". Then there were the next "technology billions" under Ditz, now we have the third "technology billions" under Federal Minister Dr. Farnleitner. At international level, we are signing ongoing papers that require us to set up initiatives in this important future area, create jobs in Austria and improve qualification. What happened, Mr. State Secretary? – The billions never arrived. For small and medium-sized enterprises, which have been adopted at the Luxembourg Employment Summit as a special target group for the new technologies, nothing has changed in Austria. On the contrary: The new postal tariffs have brought an additional burden and deterioration of the situation. Former reform countries such as Hungary or Slovenia are already partly further in the basic equipment in the technology and computer science field than we are. They are already widely equipped with the mobile phones and associated networks in the EU, while we are still in the construction phase in Austria, because your ministry has not even been able to grant appropriate permits. However, we are signing documents at international level and we hear from the President-in-Office of the Trade Unions that we have been able to see a success of Austrian policy at international level. What we are always told in the Committee on Social Affairs is that many countries are looking at Austria and that our labour market policies are the best in the world, cannot be voted on. Why, then, has the Luxembourg Treaties written that active labour market measures are being promoted? – Austria is the final target of the European countries in active labour market promotion measures. Mrs Hagenhofer is right if she thinks that there are excellent work foundations. We liberals voted in favour of those excellent work foundations, which were designed to re-train at least 60 percent of the employees there so that they could find a new job. We said no only on those points where it was the only goal of the work foundation to create early pensioners and to take people who were willing to work out of employment, not to re-qualify them, but to put them on a stop track. You, of course, Mr Vergestnich, remember that at the time we meant in the Social Committee that we had forgotten some point of these foundations in the social transfer laws. As a result, Mr Nürnberger directed us to take care of his steel workers in Styria. Two months later, he appeared on television to say that he had forgotten something in this area and had now repaired something that the Chamber of Workers of Styria and our Freemans had brought into the discussion from the very beginning. It is also seen in some improvements in the social field in this year. Of course, flexibilization cannot work in such a way that only the enterprises can take up the framework and remain nothing for the workers. You know very well, Mr Vergestnitsch, that where liberal works councils have been responsible for flexibilization models, it has never been a question of making entrepreneurs stronger, but of securing businesses by at least one third going to improve the structure of enterprises and two thirds to workers. We have not supported other work models in those areas in which we have worked as works councils. I am actually sorry that the liberals are always presented as those who "eat" the workers who have nothing left for workers and endanger the businesses in that country. On the contrary: We have considered a lot; we have thought very progressively, but we may have been ahead of time many times. I would like to remind you that I am quite right, because I can still remember that flexibilization models are being celebrated by the trade union today, such as the flexibilization model of metallurgy from last October, two years ago as a labour market disassembly, as a defeat for workers and as a non-social notions of the liberal workers, to be read on the black boards of the works councils. I therefore think it would be more useful to learn from the Luxembourg employment summit: The division of workers' interests and economic interests has never brought anything other than international speculation. I therefore think it is high time to form a united unit to pave the way here. I should also like to point out that we want to spread, namely that the pension model of the liberals not only refers to the factor of work, but it is also those people who gain profits without work only through speculation. This would make the model of the shareholder value profit somewhat wider, more unattractive, improved and somewhat more labour-friendly. You know, Mr Vergestnich, that our ideas of freedom are not just daily politics, but are also in the form of requests in the committees, but there they are forever pushed aside. Now something about education policy in Austria. We liberals have not been tired of demanding a vocational training year here in the House because we think it is more useful than the bad polytechnic course. You know very well that many international efforts on language research, on the basic equipment of the apprentices, who could get workers there, and that would lead to the absurd demands of the economy to receive part of the school's return, ad absurdum, because the apprentices would actually only receive vocational training and would no longer have to re-acquire the primary school. All these models have been rejected. I believe that the Luxembourg Summit was no longer more than the Florence Summit and the Essen Summit. A serious effort for the future is not to be missed. In the autumn of 1998, the Austrian Federal Government will have to make an appropriate effort in Vienna to ensure that not hundreds of thousands of protesters will be at Ballhausplatz, but that workers in Europe will finally receive a signal that unemployment in Europe is falling again. Currently the signals go in a different direction.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e8995	Mrs Petrovic spoke on the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e9017	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We have tabled this urgent question to the Federal Chancellor after we have considered it appropriate, because we believe that the situation of unemployment requires a coordinated procedure for the entire government. Although I know the rights of representation in the Federal Government, it seems to me that, in this matter and also in view of the importance which the government parties attach to the subject, it really does not seem appropriate that someone, namely the Secretary of State, who was unable to follow the start of the debate, now rises here, where there were massive accusations, where there were suggestions to which he cannot actually answer. I had hoped that the Federal Chancellor would only be absent in the short term. Since this is apparently not the case, I would ask the National Council to ask that the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany continue to attend the debate on this urgent question.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e9050	Thank you, Mrs Petrovic. The motion for a resolution shall be put to the vote without delay. If the request finds a majority, the Federal Chancellor should ask him to come back here in plenary. Ladies and gentlemen! We are therefore voting on this request. I would ask you to take the places for this purpose. We are now entering the voting procedure. [[Call to the liberals: There are always some coming in!]] I'm asking, no more... I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to give their approval to this request to give a sign of approval. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Please count!]] It's been called for narration. I would ask you to remain clear, so to speak, for the purpose of counting. Now, if you'll count. [[Call to the liberals: This also applies to you back there! Koppler, Oberhaidinger, stay outside!]] [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka comes to the meeting room and goes to his place.]] Please, we are in the voting procedure, Mr Cot. – 37 per vote and 38 votes against were counted. The request is therefore rejected. [[Contradict with the liberals.]] I expressly note that only those who have taken their seats from the beginning of the voting procedure have been counted. For example, I did not include Mr Klubobmann Kostelka. I have 38 votes against, 37 votes against and 37 votes against. The request is therefore rejected. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Rules of Procedure!]] - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e9140	Mr President. Mr Oberhaidinger and Mr Koppler have come into the hall during the voting process. They have been included in the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e9164	I've deunified: Only those who took their seats at the beginning of the voting procedure have been counted after our narration. It would also be like to see these votes included in an income during the voting process, as it is not possible by the Rules of Procedure to deprive Members present in the Chamber of their right of vote. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr Kostelka: Rules of Procedure!]] Mr Klubobmann Kostelka on the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e9200	Mr President. I would like to point out that the criticism of the results of the vote, which the President has decided here, is extremely unusual for me.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e9244	Ladies and gentlemen! We continue in the speaker list. Mrs Gredler is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, Madam Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e9286	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I also regret that the Federal Chancellor has actually found only two hours to devote himself to unemployment or employment. I also think it necessary for it, with its physical presence, to express more interest in how the House is dealing with this problem. But obviously it doesn't matter to him. It is more important for him to be filmed with representatives of other governments than to debate with his own Parliament. On the reply of Mr Bundeskanzler to point 2.8: I would ask you, Mr State Secretary, since the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany obviously has to carry out more important business, to inform him that I was not satisfied with his reply to this point. The question was: "How will you ensure that new "EU-compliant" measures do not favour marginal and problem groups in favour of more easily integrated groups?" The Federal Chancellor said: Yes. Then he said what he thought: There are EU guidelines for long-term unemployed. That's all he didn't think of. I think it is actually a point of order, a question which is not a matter of shame, but which really needs an in-depth consideration to answer in this way. If Mrs Tichy-Schreder says that in three hours one cannot actually answer a question in depth, then I must be surprised because the Federal Chancellor has been dealing with the issue of employment policy in the EU for more than three hours. He took part at least in a summit, where he obviously devoted himself to this matter in depth. That is why I do not at all understand why he can criticize this, especially since the opposition is much more important. You know that. We talked yesterday about enlargement of the EU. I think that this limit to only two hours is absolutely essential. I consider the subject to be fundamental, and the Federal Government or the Federal Chancellor is only two hours ago to debate it. This is the true scandal! We would have liked to hold longer debates. This is made impossible for us, however, because the rulers of the great coalition are unable to spend more time for it. Please write You're behind your ears! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] In this context and because the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany obviously does not agree enough to read a resolution tabled by the Liberal Group, which reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] As far as our motion for a resolution is concerned. And then we're going to go on: Unemployment in Austria and the EU is becoming more and more female. The Federal Government has drawn up a position paper on the occasion of this employment summit. On 13 pages exactly 13 lines have been dedicated to women. I think this is actually an alarm in terms of women's employment and government initiatives. But I'll come back to that. With regard to the "Technology Billion", Mr. Federal Minister admitted that he could distribute 463 million schillings, and in November 200 million schillings were still on the "high edge". He hasn't distributed it yet. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lukesch.]] Mr. Lukesch! You yourself have read or heard the reply of the Federal Minister. I expect this money to be spent at least until the end of December. After all, 200 million schillings are waiting for researchers who may not have a job now, especially young. Then it goes on – and now I'm actually expecting an applause from the SPÖ: It is a question of organizing 300 million Schilling in the labour market service in Upper Austria in order to support the initiative of the Federal Government which needs resources for youth employment. Now ÖGB Women's President Irmgard Schmidleithner, who is really not close to the Liberal Forum, has said that there is no additional money, this action is at the expense of other disadvantaged groups such as women and the long-term unemployed. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: And disabled people!]] That's what she did in an APA broadcast on 1 January. ==References====External links== 276. Their own women warn the Federal Government that they are planning actions with the funds that are actually used for measures to reintroduce long-term unemployed and women into employment. And what happens? It's not even applause here when you quote your own people! I really wonder what I have to use as sources! Thank you. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] Upper Austria: I received a letter on 29 May. It was written by an association to promote the skills of women and vocational training. That's what it says: On Thursday, 27. In November 1997, at 10:45 a.m., the National Labour Market Service Department informed that three women's projects were deleted from mid-1998. – A training course will be removed, and twelve women will not get any work. The removal also endangers the educational workshop for twelve young people in the basic resources and therefore cannot be preserved. Project Via Vista, Glaserinen-Training and Work Training: another 12 training places will be deleted. In this letter, they refer to the removal of 41 jobs and training places and the loss of ten years of construction work, resources and know-how. I think that's an alarm sign. There are now no more Upper Austrian elections, and it is obvious that the elections are being held, quite violently. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on Green MEPs.]] Further: Training institute "Aqua". "Aqua" has received money on condition that it mediates at least 50 percent of women within six months. "Aqua" has managed to convey 75 percent of women within three months. And what happens? – The money is deleted. "Kassandra" in Mödling: detto. "Mira": detto. So all the initiatives that are set up to bring women into employment or to qualify for employment are obviously deleted by the Federal Government. Mrs. Schmidleithner's criticism of this is being tolerated by the women of the government parties here in the house. A scandal! Finally, as my speaking time ends: I have here the analysis of the Federal Minister for the Labour Market in Austria at the end of November. It is said that there is an increase in unemployment in the more than 50 years within a month of 17.4 percent. This is really threatening, because I know exactly that these women are very difficult to mediate. And what's going to be done here? – It is simply tolerated. The Federal Chancellor on this issue obviously has nothing more to do with it.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e9402	The motion for a resolution which has just been read is properly tabled, duly supported and is therefore under negotiation. The next speech is by Mrs Bures. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e9427	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to focus on how different the estimates of the Luxembourg employment summit are, which are also very much related to expectations. I believe, above all, that as an Austrian – and above all as a parliamentarian – we can be very proud of it – and we should also say that it is an Austrian success that the issue of employment policy now has an essential role in the European Union and is now being discussed in Europe on this issue of employment and unemployment. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We can also be proud of the fact that German Chancellor Climate was responsible for introducing social policy and employment policy issues, the German Chancellor climate, which has brought these issues in and pursued them permanently and persistently. [[Abg. Gaugg: Merciful woman! Creating jobs, not just talking!]] However, Luxembourg's decisions – and I share the view that there would have been further demands – are a stage target, because you should not forget that until recently within the EU economic policy, only the implementation of fiscal and monetary objectives has been a priority. It is therefore very likely that a first but positive step has been taken in the right direction. It is now clear from what I believe to be very important that unemployment is an individual debt even within the EU until recently. Europe is now starting to adopt the employment summit and the outcome of Luxembourg. In a guest comment Erich Fröschl formulated this very aptly. He said, and I would like to quote this, that Europe is beginning to say goodbye to ideology, that unemployment is an inevitable and natural by-product of the market economy, in which workers are also primarily guilty, because they are either too qualified or because they are too old because they are too well prepared and too demanding. I believe that, with the exception of the F-group, it has succeeded not only in Austria, but Europe-wide, because of this employment summit, in saying that unemployment is an individual debt, that it has been recognised that preventing unemployment must be a central political issue. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Nevertheless, I believe that it would have been even more sensible – that is also the position of the Chancellor of the Federal Climate, who has formulated this today, and of the Austrian trade unions – to formulate more binding goals and also to equip them with sanctions. However, it must be noted that, unfortunately, no consensus has yet been reached on this process until the hour within the EU. I share the view that Austria, which, as has already been said, was leading the issue of employment, is particularly required in the preparation of its own national action plan, because Austria is one of the most successful countries in the EU in its employment policy – this is another success. We are therefore particularly required because Austria will have the Presidency in the European Union during the first planned review of the national action programmes. We therefore have no doubt that we are particularly in the spotlight. We have always been in favour of preventing unemployment, creating employment and jobs, even because we are concerned about preventing youth unemployment and the issue of increasing the employment rate for women. I do not think it would be useful to play these groups against each other, but it is important that a number of programmes in the field of re-entry aid for women and much more have been created. That is why we are called upon to draw up a very effective and concrete national action plan. The German Chancellor's climate has said that this action plan should not be a government secret, but should be developed with the involvement of the social partners and with the involvement of experts and parliamentarians. This also has good Austrian tradition, which has been very successful in the past. Austria has recognised that employment policy is a national concern. To sum up, I would like to say that the Luxembourg employment summit was an important first step towards raising awareness in an existential key issue for the majority of people in the area of job security. This summit has neither solved nor removed the problem of unemployment in Europe. Nor will the number of 18 million unemployed within the EU be removed and disappear from one day to another, nor will it be eliminated by a summit from one day to another. It is up to us to make the most of the decisions taken in Luxembourg for the Austrian employment issue and situation, and we will do so too!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e9478	Mr Schrefel is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Still speaking time for your club: 6 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e9500	Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The new employment chapter of the Amsterdam Treaty, which at the end of November obliged the Member States to submit multiannual employment programmes, will certainly be a real step, because, without effective combating unemployment, there will be no socially stable Europe. The creation of jobs is primarily one of the national tasks, but EU policy must, of course, create the appropriate framework conditions. Overall, the EU's most important question is to develop rural areas – and I would like to focus briefly on them: How to solve the problem of the lack of jobs? Ladies and gentlemen! If rural areas are to be kept functional and viable, there must be enough employment there. When the EU Employment Summit in Luxembourg was far from mentioned, there was already a work forum in Austria – there is still today – which has been dealing with employment policy in the rural area for many years and with the question of where new jobs can be created. The so-called Österreichs eco-social forum – under the chairman and former vice-channer Riegler – of the top-class experts from various political camps brought the concern for jobs to the fore at the recent symposium in Brunn am Bergege. The dramatic statement was that in the EU alone, 230 000 jobs have been lost in agriculture since 1996. Ladies and gentlemen! Agriculture is more than one sector of production. The awareness must be heightened that only more than 5 percent of the population today care for the culture and habitat of the remaining 95 percent. Recalling that the EU is striving for employment, but at the same time giving up 230 000 agricultural jobs each year, we are calling for equal opportunities for rural areas, beyond the farming sector. We therefore call on Brussels to reserve a significant proportion of the funding for the new Objective 2 areas, resulting from the merger of Objective 2 and 5b areas, for rural regions, in the context of the reorganisation of the Structural Funds. This will no longer affect rural areas against the agglomerations. In addition to ensuring income, maintaining rural family farms and the farm sector, new employment opportunities and additional sources of value added in rural areas need to be developed in order to stop rural flight. In particular, the potential for biomass use should also be fully exploited, which would bring about about 50,000 permanent jobs for Austria, as well as the processing of raw products and the provision of leisure or municipal services. It was very positive to hear that a few weeks ago, the Federal Minister for Agriculture and Forestry, together with the Minister for the Environment, set up an eco-energy fund with 300 million Schillings. This will continue to ensure that the successful path, namely the further substitution of fossil energy and the promotion of alternative energies, is continued, thus ensuring a high degree of value-added and on-the-spot jobs. New accents will also be set in the field of education and training. In a rural training campaign, the Life Project will be launched in Lower Austria in January 1998, in which, together with the labour market service and the Eco-Plus Regional Advisory, a cross-structural support programme for farmers in 5b areas will be offered. Ladies and gentlemen! These few examples show that we have not only been dealing with employment policy in Austria since the Luxembourg employment summit, which has also been a top priority in the EU's employment statistics. I see a deficit in labour market and employment policy rather in the EU, which must significantly strengthen the framework conditions for the rural sector. Through our membership, however, we have the opportunity to get closer to this objective in appropriate negotiations. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e9554	Next word: Mr Dolinschek. Still speaking time for your club: 6 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e9575	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! According to the White Paper on employment presented by former President Delors in 1993, but not implemented, the European Council's employment summit was held on 20 and 21 December 1993. This year, a recent attempt was made in Luxembourg – I emphasize: Try; it wasn't more – to take action in the fight against unemployment. The outcome of this summit is rather poor and does not bring the unemployed anything at all. No single job will be created, nor will there be a single unemployed person in Europe as a result of the determined wishes and demands. Rather, participants in this summit will be aware of the scale of the differences in the economic policies of each EU Member State. After all, the Heads of State or Government have demonstrated that the employment chapter, which entered into the Community Treaties in June of this year at the end of the Intergovernmental Conference in Amsterdam, will be taken quite seriously. Mr Schrefel said that if there is no employment, there is no stable Europe. On this point I can fully agree with him. Mrs Bures said it was a stage target. It may be, but we cannot be satisfied with it, because the Treaty of Amsterdam does not contain an effective instrument which would require Member States to implement certain measures or to comply with certain limits in the interests of employment. Only annual guidelines, reports by the Council and the Member States, annual audits by the Council and the possibility of making recommendations to Member States, forcing active labour market policies or limiting youth unemployment are provided. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Dr. Pumberger.]] [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Poor applause!]] However, it is essential that the fight against unemployment in view of the number of 18 million unemployed throughout the EU should be given at least the same importance as respect for the Stability and Growth Pact in order to achieve economic and monetary union. Ladies and gentlemen! We liberals therefore call for a European employment pact, which does not evade the Member States' primary national responsibility in employment policy, but rather commits them to a real effort to combat unemployment. In order to be able to exert pressure on lagging governments, I believe that a sanctions mechanism would be useful. This could prevent the convergence criteria, which are the essential prerequisite for a common economic and monetary union, from being given priority over the objective of a clear reduction in the number of unemployed. Moreover, I believe that it should also be ensured that a common monetary union will only be effectively implemented if success is achieved in the fight against high unemployment. Ladies and gentlemen! Employment should be worth more than a common currency – or at least as much as this!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e9619	Mrs Mag. Mag. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Moser. Time left: 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e9640	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Internationally it is known that Austria is at one of the last places in international comparison, which leads to active labour market policies. Against this background, the national and international hope for an active role of Austria is certainly to be welcomed in the face of the Luxembourg Employment Summit. Today we were presented by the government only to beautify us. Therefore, it is necessary for the opposition to put some hard facts and data on the table that you, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, will finally bring to the ground of reality and will at last move you to pursue more massively active labour market policies. First fact – I refer to a very concrete situation in Upper Austria, in the capital city of Linz –: In 1990, an average of four people had to fight for a job, and in 1996 there were already 14. – That is, if I may say so, more than a triple of the struggle for a job. [[The speaker keeps a graphic up-to-date.]] I can also show you this graphically. Second fact: They certainly know that at least every second unemployed person is at risk of poverty. [[The speaker shows another graphic.]] All of this can be done graphically very impressively. In Linz alone, about 15,000 people are unemployed, i.e. some 7,000 people are specifically at risk of poverty. Third fact: According to statistics, the proportion of emergency aid beneficiaries in the Linz unemployed is constantly growing and growing enormously. In 1995 it was still a quarter of the unemployed, last year, 1996, it was already a third. One third of the unemployed are already dependent on emergency aid. Fourth fact: Already a quarter of the Linz unemployed receive neither unemployment benefit nor emergency aid. [[The speaker presents another graphic.]] If you look at this graphically, you can see how from 1995 to 1996 the beams are accelerated: In 1995, it was still 15 percent, and in 1996 it was already 26 percent of the unemployed who did not receive unemployment benefit or emergency aid. This is a massive settlement, a massive increase in the number of people at risk of poverty! If we look at the matter differently, we see that the proportion of young people, the foreigners and the hard-to-mechanical ones in particular is constantly increasing. At present, that is 23.3 percent of the unemployed. The situation among apprentices is generally known as a catastrophe. I can tell you from Linz State Capital: 11.5 percent of applicants did not receive a apprenticeship in 1996, 11.5 percent being practically without training. These are young people who absolutely need work. The consequence of this development is also clearly recognizable [[the speaker holds another graphic in the height]] The 5 000 households in Upper Austria are no longer eligible for payment! I emphasize: In Upper Austria, in the middle of Austria, there is a significant number of non-paymentable households, households which are indebted to payment. Of course, the situation of women is of particular importance: Every sixth woman earns less than 8 500 s net, is already close to the poverty line and certainly in the area that needs to be further promoted. Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! What are you now holding back from these facts and facts in your speeches and in connection with our urgent request? . You said that there was going to be an extension of support. However, it is not clear how and to what extent this extension should take place. In concrete terms, however, the constraints already set out on the basis of the project of the social associations of Upper Austria. The ballast among the social projects is obvious. We've already heard: 11 training projects have been deleted, 17 training projects have to accept massive reductions, and EU funding cannot be used because the Austrian share is missing. You said the budgets wouldn't shift. But what happens? – The clubs are played against each other. I can provide you with a personal list. They said that there would be measures to reduce working time in the course of negotiations with the social partners. – This is, please, a guarantee for the "long bank" and that nothing is being pushed forward in this direction. You also said that...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e9725	Ladies and gentlemen, please ask for the final sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e9740	They have announced the establishment of funds. – I just want to know where these resources are. I have received information that there is enough money in the budget, but that these funds are used very one-dimensionally, namely exclusively to prevent youth unemployment and to reduce the number of long-term unemployed.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e9758	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Please also bring the final sentence to an end!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e9774	I am already at the conclusion: What is in the room here is the discrepancy between your common places, your diffuse commitments on the one hand, and the concrete facts and facts on the other. There is a real need to do something at last, so that the Luxembourg employment summit can really deliver positive results in Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e9804	No one is reporting on this. That concludes the debate. We shall come to the vote. I would ask the honourable Members to take their place. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kier and Mr Comrades on EU employment policy. If you would like to give this request your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e9850	I now take the negotiations on the 5th. Agenda item on the amendment of the Film Promotion Act. I call Mr Krüger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e9875	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mrs. Federal Minister! I begin my speech by reading an amendment. [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! I invite you to accept this amendment. I should also like to reassure the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group and invite them at the same time: You can agree to this request with a calm conscience, because the meaning and purpose of the amendment is also the elimination of existing incompatibilities. If you are serious about this, then you agree to this request. One of the main criticism points raised from the circle of film-makers, from the circle of film critics and practitioners was indeed the fact of incompatibility. In fact, members of the selection committee are indirectly promoting their own projects. That's not a question at all. There is a natural existence in the law Provisions that, in the event of a direct collision between the individual promoters sitting in the selection committee, they should go out and be represented by his replacement. In practice, this is how it is done. This is – not a question at all – purely formal, but, of course, not in terms of content, because the promoter goes out, but the replacement man agrees in his sense. The fact that there are exchange and counter-businesses on both sides is obvious. And if you do not believe that the opposition, at least you believe it to be the experts we have heard in the Committee on Film, especially the producer and film dealer Dr. Kloiber, who says that such a regulation is absolutely incompatible and against the democratic principle and bar any seriality and transparency. [[Complaints with the liberals]] Ladies and gentlemen! I'm allowed to sum up: The current amendment to the Film Promotion Act is not a reform, it is at best a fig leaf reform. This does not undermine essential criticisms. It is not a will for reform to be felt. They voted to oppose the principle of intent. I have told you, ladies and gentlemen, from the Socialist Group, that I represent the opinion of your comrade, the general secretary, Mr Seiler, who speaks of a "necessary principle of intent". And the principle of intent is necessary in order to establish responsibility. However, there is no responsibility under this amendment because the decision to promote a film is based on the selection committee and the director's level. I guarantee you one: If there is a review of the individual film projects when an evaluation of the film projects is carried out afterwards, the responsibility will be postponed. Members of the Selection Commission will say: Debt is the director who has not promoted the appropriate amount! The Director, in turn, will say: I was tied up with my hands, because the decision was made by the selection committee! I had this decision to make and to determine only the height! This means that the purpose of the reform is to establish clear responsibilities, to enable a clear evaluation of the law, which is quite the opposite. I note that there is only a fig leaf reform here. Nothing has become out of the original Pragmatization of Mr Schedl gkl.Jn. Nothing out of this "legger" has become. The Secretary of State and the ladies and gentlemen of the Government have come up with a timely attempt to bring about an unwarranted Pragmatization of the previously unsuccessful director through the legislator. It is a hidden principle of intent that you do not want, there is no clear responsibility, and the incompatibilities continue to exist.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e9960	Next word: Mr Dr. Cap. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e9981	In contrast to my previous speaker, I believe that the novelle of the Film Promotion Act has really fulfilled all the expectations it contains. Following an intensive discussion process, it has succeeded in creating a basis for the production, distribution and exploitation of Austrian films, which enables them to gain the appropriate audience and also international recognition. These are two very important criteria. Furthermore, the objective is the economic performance of Austrian filmmaking. That also means jobs. This also means the economic location of Austria if it is true that in Austria as a country of origin the production of as many successful and internationally recognized films succeeds. This will also promote cooperation between film and television. Everyone knows that a film should, of course, prove on television that television is an important factor in the distribution of television and that without ORF and television it is really not possible to achieve success. Of course, it is also important to further promote the harmonisation of federal and country film promotion measures. I would like to highlight one point which is crucial to this: the development of production promotion in accordance with the principle of success, the so-called reference film promotion. It can be combined with project funding. It promotes the self-determination and self-responsibility of filmmaking. The success of the reference film brings new resources to new projects. It is therefore crucial that the current system of usual funding is replaced by bodies, curators or whatever is replaced by confidence in the self-determination of successful candidates. The artistic or economic success is also to be rewarded. A film is considered artistically successful – and I said that already at the beginning of my remarks – when it achieves recognition, nominations, awards, awards at internationally relevant film festivals. Criterion for economic success, however, is also the achievement of numbers of visitors in the Austrian cinemas. I'm just saying, You will also have to take care of new money. I have therefore already suggested that there might be something like a tax spéciale in France, a tax which could be redistributed from the successful American films to the Austrian filmmakers. Perhaps you also have to question the monopoly in the rental area. In addition, we bring the novelle a streamlining of the project decision by slendering the selection commission from nine to five members. A corresponding amendment to concentrate on five members will still be tabled. Therefore, contrary to the view of Mr Krüger, the innovative Film Promotion Act brings very clear responsibilities for the board of directors as a supervisory body with defined tasks, such as decision-making on the promotion directives, approval of exceptions to maximum funding amounts, evaluation of funding activities. This law also brings clear responsibility for the selection commission. It shall select the projects for support in the framework of project support. In contrast to Mr Krüger, I believe that it is very appropriate and makes sense that the Director, who bears commercial responsibility, can also decide on and is responsible for the amount of funding granted. Another positive point of this law is: The reason for a funding decision is to improve the transparency of the decision. An old critical point, as I mean, is being disassembled. On the accusations that there are no inconsistencies, it must be said: A new definition of incompatibilities prevents promotion on its own account. For this, Mr Krüger, you should know that too! – there is a pool of replacement members. That is also crucial. Another important point in this novel, which has to be mentioned, is the whole area of young people's support, which ultimately flows about 15 percent of the budget. On the whole, this reform has succeeded in taking a very decisive step in the right direction. But I'm just saying: If the budget of the Austrian film institute is increased by 20 million schilling, it is 120 million schilling, which is not just overcrowding, and therefore one will have to look around for new money if one really wants the Austrian film to gain an international reputation. To achieve this, it is important that you look over your own plate edge. It is also important for the opposition to be really concrete and constructive in this process, instead of producing itself here and, as you, honourable Member Krüger, have done, doing so, to do everything in a bad way. It is not right to present my colleague Schedl as a non-skiller just because he may not face him. This is not a constructive contribution. In this way, we will not be able to prove ourselves in the field of cultural policy and, above all, in the field of film in the future. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Krüger.]] Instead, they should try to cooperate constructively. What you have put into the committees, and what you have said in your speech today, was not a constructive contribution. If you continue, I can only say: Thank you as one who believes that culturally speaking, make a meaningful contribution! Without you, it will probably continue to be much more constructive and meaningful, as before.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e10054	The amendment previously tabled by Mr Krüger has been properly tabled, is also supported and is therefore under negotiation. The next Mrs. Dr. Petrovic is speaking. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e10078	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The subject of film promotion has been dealing with this House for some time now, and I would like to stress first of all that there are some committees – and I am sure that the Committee on Culture is counting here – in which the debate and the way in which decisions are prepared are beneficially different from the usual practices. Perhaps this is particularly true of the Committee chairmen from the government groups, because I think that if, in a relatively small committee with relatively small powers, there is always a great effort to prepare decisions well with those concerned, then this should be a matter of course in the committees in which it is more money in which it is more important matters. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Unfortunately, this is not the case. We know that, in particular, where the social partners have the say, it is going to be necessary to keep the opposition waiting, to send it out of the session, to get it back, and to present legally poorly prepared drafts at the last minute. I already understand the often necessary hurry, I also understand that rulers are under greater pressure in many matters than the opposition, but the procedure that has been adopted in the last few weeks and days is, as I believe, something that the committee presidents of the government groups should do with a little more thoughtfulness, because overall, due to the corresponding reports in the media, also damages parliamentarianism. - That's just foreword. On the content of the Film Promotion Act: I recognise certain positive aspects of this new regulation. To sum up, however, we would have wished for a different law, in particular as regards the fact that this law – and I consider it to be the gross error of this law – does not clearly recognize the principle after which it was obviously carried out and will become. We know that there are prominent advocates of the intentional principle, but we also know that in particular those in the industry, but also the film-makers' umbrellas, do not support it. Now there is – and I consider this to be a progress, and of course we will also support the joint request – a selection commission of five members, but ultimately the Director has the right to decide. The fact that the Director decides on the amount of the funds to be granted is again the intentional principle through the back door. I think it would have been more honest to say that one wants such a thing and then to criticise himself. What we have now is not fish and not meat. I think that if one already has a selection committee, then the decision on the funding should at least in principle and in general be the Commission, and if one wants to do something like the director's emphatically highlighted position, then one could have done so in the way that the exception case should be highlighted more clearly and that then a detailed statement, and also a public one, should take place, why a recommendation, is taken from a decision of the selection committee. In our opinion, too little progress has been made in the issue of incompatibilities. We know that it is difficult, on the one hand, to occupy a Commission with really competent people from practice, but at the same time to ensure that not those who have direct or indirect economic interest in a particular film production ultimately decide on the promotion. It has been said in the Committee that an indirect preference is difficult to grasp. I think if you wanted it, it would have been possible. There are a lot of laws in other areas of Austrian law, such as criminal law, when it comes to any action of favour or similar – I know we are now talking about something quite different, but that is true too – which is very likely to be an indirect advantage. So it would not be a novum in the Austrian legal order, and I think you could have done that. So summa summarum is to say: This committee certainly has a much better course of action than in other committees, and there is the feeling of being taken seriously – and that is what I say to the address of the government parties – as a member of the opposition. It is also possible in the Committee's deliberations to come up with an amendment to five-party proposals. Under the rule we would have expected a more democratic procedure and a somewhat stricter incompatibility, which is why we will not agree to this law at third reading. Nevertheless, as has been said, we see certain benefits. One last thing, Mr State Secretary – and this is really, I believe, an urgent need for your place of business: Beyond this law, we now have a dramatic situation in many areas of Austrian art and culture. I have the impression that the tax rules in particular are not really in line with the situation of artists and cultural workers. There are very irregular flows of revenue, in between large ranges of thirst in financial terms, and income tax law which does not take into account them. In the meantime, many art- and cultural-makers – and these are not difficult super-earners, no tennis stars or Formula I aces, but they are people who do not have a super-income – have moved their residence because they simply do not get through the rounds in Austria with the financial authorities. Secondly, The social situation of the art and cultural creators is anything but rosy. I therefore think that a little more attention should be paid to the social interests of art and culture, including as regards public broadcasting, a commitment to a higher share of the programme, a little more equal opportunities – I do not mean protection, I do not mean promoting people who cannot keep pace at the qualitative level – and a comprehensive, rapid report on the social situation of art and culture makers in Austria would be necessary. That's something that burns under the nails! I would urge you, Mr State Secretary, to present the relevant documents so that we can make improvements in these areas in the usual way - really collegial - in the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e10147	The next speaker is Mr Morak. The speaking time is programmed to 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e10169	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! I do not share the opinion of Mr Krüger, who says that this innovation is not a reform, but I think it is a step towards increasing the efficiency of Austrian film promotion. It is an intermediate step, but these steps can be corrected within the development of the Austrian film, i.e. to continue to be corrected from the legislator. I believe that if you make films in this country, you can better live by this law, much better than before. This was achieved by precisely defining the objectives of the film law by the legislator – that is the success at the box office and the success at major, artisticly relevant festivals – and secondly, as Mr Cap has already said, the funding in the field of success-dependent funding has been increased. The ceiling of 10 percent of the total funds now no longer exists, and the amount is subject to the annual decision of the board of trustees. This means that there is a very great flexibility from year to year. The factor 1.5, with which the success-dependent film promotion, i.e. the reference means, has been multiplied, has been doubled to three. That is to say, some of the decisions were outsourced to the producers within the film promotion. I think this is a very, very great progress. That is to say, the success is now truly rewarded, with funding and money. In contrast to Mr Krüger, I believe that the responsibility has been clearly assigned. No matter what the decision of the Selection Commission is, it can be corrected in the final effect by the Director. This may be a Swiss construction. But this can always be said that the Director has allocated these funds, and the Director bears the undivided responsibility. Project promotions are more possible under this new law. 15 percent of the total amount is available to young people, but this is also a criticism point. As a result, film promotion was not increased to the extent that the State Secretary was led; these 15 percent must be available for the promotion of young people. This is positive on the one hand, but, of course, it has a retroactive effect on the overall resources. We have, to this extent, an annual evaluation by the board of trustees, reinforced by external experts. Furthermore, the position of the Director shall in any case be declared after the end of his term of office. I mean, we are on the right track with this law, because it concerns the circumstances and situation of the Austrian film, while at the same time it is a reaction to its development. It is an incentive to forward the Austrian film. It provides incentives to make the film marketable, to take a step into internationality, at least in the German-speaking world, and to establish the Austrian film. The law is, I would almost say, a little ahead of the status quo, it is flexible – and that is also the great advantage over the previous one from 1981. Nevertheless, the BKA's efforts in this area must not be reduced. Since the Federal Chancellor has repeatedly stressed that the film is a priority for him, it can be said that on the basis of this law – and the law almost demands it – the next step already has to follow. A few steps will have to follow. We invest a lot of money in the area of traditional cultural techniques – thank you very much. And since we do this traditionally about transfer payments and not about tax deductibility and loss depreciation – the responsible financial officer, who was with us last time in the Committee on Culture, has not given much hope that this will change in the near future – the transfer payments must be increased in the medium term and keep pace with the production volume or stimulate production. It is almost necessary to initiate a five-year plan after production. It cannot be seen that we are not investing in a growth market without any equal. Just think of the endless marketing possibilities for film in second, third and fourth usage on video, on TV, in the future markets "Video on demand" and in the new media! Secondly, I would like to address the lease situation in Austria. For the films made for the audience, we must also create the opportunity to reach the audience. And that is difficult to do at the moment. On the one hand, this has to do with the domination of American distributors working across Europe, and on the other hand with the situation that is homemade, with the KIBA constant: The KIBA has its cinemas programmed by the Constantin if it does not just block them. And because the KIBA is a matter of the municipality of Vienna, I expect – and also the Austrian film industry, I know – in this matter a clarification of the German Chancellor's conversation with the mayor of Vienna. This is more than a sign for the Austrian film. It is an absolutely necessary measure – provided that one takes the 100 million schilling and the Austrian film seriously. The German Chancellor's speech on this subject, and in which he said that the Austrian film is a priority for him, should, with these two measures, still to be decided, get a reference to reality in order not to remain a mere lip confession. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e10233	The next speaker is Mrs Motter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e10254	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We Liberals agree with this new law, because two amendments have been found by us Liberal entry into the novelle on the Film Promotion Act. This law has already been elaborately explained by my previous speakers. I would just like to make a few basic points from our point of view in the near future. We have no doubt that today's decision-making can only be a first step towards a forward-looking film economy in our country. Because in the future it will be important that we give the Austrian film a higher priority than before. However, we need functional media centers that enable this new film industry. Ladies and gentlemen! It's not a secret: Austria is a member of the European Union, and the basis for all European concepts for film locations is that the media and audio vision sector adopts a special democratic and cultural policy position. Since it is important in today's information society to be able to communicate verbal and visual information on political attitudes, world views, artistic content and so on, the audiovisual area is counted as the basic equipment of the intellectual and technical infrastructure, as well as functioning telephone networks and transport routes. The EU has clearly expressed in Chapter 1 of the MEDIA II programme its support for the development of a competitive and sustainable European programme industry capable of meeting the cultural and economic needs of the information society as we have today. Ladies and gentlemen! I think we are all aware that Austria too has a contribution to make. However, not much has yet been seen, and nothing has yet been done, except that the government parties – SPÖ and ÖVP – do not tire of stressing time and again that communication in particular is one of the key sectors for structural action in order to prevent an increase in the rate of unemployment and a reduction in economic growth. Our Chancellor Mag. Climate and the Secretary of State do not tire of stressing the importance of the Austrian film. I can always point out, Mr State Secretary – he was in Bregenz on Sunday – how important it is to you, according to your statements of the film in the future. [[Abg. There he was excellent!]] You must admit, however, that very little has been done to date. [[Abg. He was good!]] - He was good, yes. What we need, therefore, are economic policies with the following characteristics – we have thought about it –: We need to make growth impulses possible through operations with highly qualified workers, high value added and income potential, but linked to low consumption-oriented environmental impact. It is also necessary to modernise the future-oriented infrastructure. We also need an increase in international communication capacity. Positive external effects could be achieved by avoiding or preventing imports through the production of films. It must also be of concern to us to stop the specialized experts we have in our country by means of a knowledge-based flow of migration. We have to keep them in our country! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] We Liberals are convinced that the characteristics of an efficient structural policy here enable the film industry to do so in an ideal way. With positive cultural effects, a variety of opinions also in the economy as well as positive effects on tourism, the ideal soil would be prepared for this. This is because almost all European public and regional administrations have long recognized the need to develop disproportionate investments in the areas of film and television production. Ladies and gentlemen! Austria is at the beginning of this process. We need comprehensive structural, sectoral protectionist and cultural and media policies. However, there is also a need for a new cultural subsidy – Mr. Cap has already addressed it – because only 4.9% of subsidies from all local authorities for the press, radio, TV and film are certainly not enough in the future. Ladies and gentlemen! It is not enough to adopt a new film promotion law today, but it must involve in our awareness that we have to put in place extensive measures in the fields of media policy, cinematographic exploitation, income tax and gambling legislation, cultural and educational policy. For this too, ladies and gentlemen, we are guilty of Austria's culture. Finally, I should like to make one more amendment. By § 5 para. 7 the incompatibilities are described more in detail than before. However, in order to eliminate any conflict of interest, the introduction that a member of the board of trustees should also be selected in the case of indirect economic interests is sensible and necessary. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e10347	The amendment just read complies with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure and is under negotiation. The next speaker is Mrs Jäger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e10372	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The general trend towards deregulation and the promotion of private-sector thinking does not stop the cultural sector either. At the same time, however, I think it is necessary that we continue to have good quality state support for cultural workers. Art and culture cannot only be private in our society, but it is highly of democratic and educational interest. In this sense, the revision of the Film Promotion Act is also an important and a positive step. The production of films, which are very expensive, must not only be left to commerce. Now we have since 1981 a support system for own-produced films, which today runs through the Austrian Film Institute, but the framework conditions in Austria are extremely difficult. We have a very small domestic market, we only have a television station, we have a very difficult situation in the field of cinemas – that is, very few visitors and, of course, an excess of foreign offers, especially from the American market. Nevertheless, we can say that the Austrian filmmakers cut off very well in international comparison. In 1996, Austrian films participated in 165 international festivals and film markets. 34 of 60 premiered cinema films reached more than a thousand visitors to Austrian cinemas between 1990 and 1995. The aim of film promotion – and this is true for Europe as a whole – is therefore currently to promote greater self-responsibility for film makers. Furthermore, the streamlining of the bodies and the shift of competence will increase flexibility. The Selection Commission contributes to ensuring the independence and indifference of film promotion. In this context, it is also important to complement selective film promotion through automatic reference film promotion. Reference film promotion means that an economically or artistically successful film is also rewarded in the way that new film projects can be implemented by means of new funding because of its success. Since the introduction of the 1987 reference film promotion, 40 percent of films started in 1985 have been artistically or economically successful – and this is also an excellent result throughout Europe. In the novelle, the automation of reference film promotion is further expanded and the self-responsibility of film makers is strengthened. Furthermore – and I think this is a very important step – there is a targeted promotion of young people and an innovation promotion, i.e. more professionalism also among young directors. An interesting phenomenon is that throughout Europe almost exclusively films can rise, which are strongly identical and culturally unmistakable. Finally, however, the market size decides on an economic success of the film. According to a European study, 95 percent of all European films do not go beyond the borders of their countries of origin. Public film promotion is therefore to be seen, above all, of cultural necessity and also as an identity-building medium. Finally, I would like to say that the increase in the overall budget of the Austrian Film Institute to 120 million Schilling is very encouraging. To this end, funds from the art budget are re-examined. However, it is not yet clear how far countries can be used to participate in film promotion. I hope – and I also support this – that the national governments will contribute to film promotion. I would also like to support Mr Wittmann's call for five million Schillings to be included in Landkinos and thus to combat cinema death in the country. I think one can be satisfied with the current revision of the Film Promotion Act, as it leads to more transparency, more self-responsibility and greater independence of the artists. Finally, I would like to make one more amendment. This is a four-party request, and it is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e10472	The request put forward by Mrs Inge Jäger is under negotiation. I call Mr Leiner. The clock is set to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e10499	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Every public support must actually pursue public objectives, and so we also demand in film promotion that it not primarily preserves the film industry but, with the help of the film media, promotes the international reputation of a region, a city and defines our national identity. The aim of film promotion must also not be to subsidize filmmakers, but rather to invest in the culture of our country and thus also in the future of our region. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Film financing must build up and develop those structures that ensure international competitiveness. A successful film and film promotion policy can only mean that film can be understood as art and industry everywhere in the world. Commercial successes do not exclude artistic successes – and vice versa. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The objective must be the stronger acceptance of the Austrian film by the cinematic visitor, the domestic distributors and the international distributors. The market shares of the Austrian film must be increased by measure within an intensity, i.e. within five years. The current amendment to the Film Funding Act achieves a number of objectives. Firstly, there has been a shift in focus towards success dependency. I think it is important that artistic and economic success be promoted. The criteria of economic success are marked by the sale of cinema cards, those of artistic success can be measured in the relevant participation at prominent film festivals. A second objective of the innovation is the organisational streamlining of the allocation of funds, which is achieved on the one hand by reducing the number of members of the selection commission from 9 to 5 persons, on the other hand by the clear allocation of responsibility to the individual organisational structures – the board, the selection committee and the director. With regard to the Director, I would like to add: I think it is right that, in the course of the deliberations of the present Film Promotion Act, the director of the Austrian Film Institute as the relevant operational body in film promotion was allocated and transferred clearly defined competences, all the more so combined with effective controlling elements. I mean in concrete terms the determined annual evaluation of the Austrian Film Institute, with the addition of external experts and the provision required by the ÖVP, according to which the position of the director of the Austrian Film Institute must in any case be publicly advertised after the end of the five-year term of office. I believe that the revision of the Film Promotion Act will eliminate structural deficits. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e10570	The next speaker is Mrs Onodi. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e10591	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! With the new Film Funding Act, the film will be more focused than ever on Austrian cultural policy. In other words, the importance of domestic film creation must also be changed. The aim of film promotion is to support the production, distribution and exploitation of Austrian films. It is also intended to achieve a corresponding audience approach, thus increasing the economy and quality of Austrian filmmaking. Other objectives of this Film Promotion Act are: to strengthen the economic performance of Austrian filmmaking, to promote cooperation between film and television, and to harmonise the film promotion measures of the federal government and countries. More money is also needed to achieve these ambitious goals. The budget of the Austrian Film Institute is therefore to be increased by 20 million Schilling to a total of 120 million Schilling. New in the novel of this film promotion is also the development and production promotion according to the success principle. In principle, artistic and/or economic success should now be strengthened. Also emerging filmmakers should be promoted better than before. It is expected that 15 percent of the budget will be made available for this purpose. The aim is to facilitate the entry into professional filmmaking in the creative and production-technical field. Overall, ladies and gentlemen, the revision of the Film Promotion Act means a harmonisation of the Austrian film promotion system with the generally applicable systems in Europe.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e10633	Next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Sonja Moser. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e10655	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The Law on Film Promotion, adopted by the Committee on Culture, is a success, because it brings a successful promotion. Nevertheless, only one goal can be said, the Tour de France must continue film promotion! The aim of the project is to simplify decision-making processes, to increase responsibility and transparency, to promote young people more intensively, and to develop a financing policy based on the principle of economic and artistic success. The film is an economic and cultural asset when it is made excellent. He is then a great multiplier in national and cultural terms. But why and with what objective should film production be promoted from budget resources? – The law should allow for a new creation and give the audio vision the deserved priority. When the museums are promoted with a billion, we see no problem. Even if the theatre is promoted with approximately 260 million schilling, no public discussion will be triggered. But what about the movie? – The film should also be a central theme and a focus of cultural policy. For many, the film is an industrial product that is suspected of serving only entertainment and is therefore not worthy of subvention. So far, only the barely available, artistically valuable film has been promoted in order to keep the film alive. Some hang too much on a one-sided eternal concept of art. Franz Morak once said literally: "The utopia of art is also in the reconciliation of the opposites: in the aesthetic realm, in beauty, even in the liberating laughter. Art is not a bulky product, produced against the market, knowing only one contact person: the responsible official. The main objective of film promotion must be the production, distribution and exploitation of Austrian films, because support for structural film promotions is investment in the future." [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This law strengthens the economic and artistic performance of film creation and promotes cooperation between film and television. However, from the Federal budget, the necessary amounts cannot be raised, so the media industry should be supported by tax depreciation, possibly with a time limit to look at the development. The diversity of the larger market would also be ensured by Austrian support, for example in the smaller area of synchronization. When all American films are synchronized in Berlin or Hamburg, our more melodic Austrian language coloring is lacking. "Bye", "Look" and "Ah no" always go like a stick under the skin. Consciously bringing about a producer's death would mean loss of creativity and identification – apart from enormous economic losses. When a car is produced, it is about production and production, but also about sales. It's the same thing with the movie. The work is to be taught as many people as possible, the exploitation itself is diverse. What is the cooperation between film and television? – For example, the ORF report on film – although committed to objectivity – becomes the sharp instrument of its own production policy. [[Abg. Arbitrators: That's not true!]] An Austrian film, which is produced without ORF funding, is hardly taken into account in the radio coverage, while vice versa those films, which are produced with just 25 percent of ORF shares, are collected as glorious ORF productions without exception. [[Abg. Arbitrators: That's not true! That's just not right!]] According to a study, the audiovisual market in the EU is coming up. It is the largest audiovisual market in the world with an estimated growth potential of around 70 percent over the next ten years. The European film market is the second strongest behind the USA. Thanks to our potential, we could soon offer Paroli to the USA. Furthermore, the Austrian film is the best business card abroad. Currently, the market share of domestic production in Austria is only about 4 percent. A continuous increase in this share could give the promotion practice a useful direction, because films are an ideal transport and communication medium – provided that they are able to spread internationally. And that starts in the European area. Europe would thank us!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e10715	Mrs Sonja Ablinger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e10739	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to refer immediately to the comments made by Mr Moser and not so much to the content of film promotion – they have already been presented by many – but to various criticisms. I don't think the linguisticity – "No" and "Look!" Or, "Gray, the Madln, the servas, the Buam!" – the essential aspect of film promotion, as the colleague has now presented it, but the decisive factor in film promotion is, in my opinion, – and this is basically also the criticism of many film-makers in the reference film promotion – whether it is only about economic success and audience love, about perhaps love, simple films that are pleasant that easily go into the ear. If one were to say that we are concerned with linguisticism, I would agree to the criticism – but that is not the case. [[Abg. Swimmlein: She means the movies that come on the radio!]] [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] I think we must be careful not to get into the wrong track. In my opinion, there are two options: Reference film promotion says that in Austria, of course, we also have economic success, as measured by the movie map. Okay! That's good. The Austrian film is not so large in numbers, because you can also say that you are promoting the economically successful film, but of course it is also about aesthetic categories. Andreas Gruber, a well-respected and well-known filmmaker of Austria, criticizes the fact that the aesthetic categories are lost. He means that film is – and there you have to be careful to understand how it means – a world view. That's true, because making movies without watching the world would of course be difficult. But it's also about measuring how film images can be found in reality: Will it be possible for the viewer to make reality more manageable for himself through the film, will reality be treated respectfully, and will the viewer also be given the opportunity to review the film's view based on its own reality? In my opinion, these are aesthetic and important categories for the film, and of course they are also included in reference film promotion, because – this is the second part we have chosen – film promotion will take place not only according to economic principles but also according to artistic principles. And I think that's all right. Another point: We have decided – and I do not find this as negative as Mr Morak – to secure 15 percent of young film funding. I think that's all right. In my opinion, the Austrian film does not have enough film creators, so you could say that we are not interested in young people. And this young film promotion is also about applying the aesthetic categories. I think this is a very interesting discussion, in which you can probably learn a lot – also about your own realities, about various ways of seeing the world. I would now like to address your criticism, Mr Krüger, because I did not understand what you meant. On the one hand, you have said that the director will be cemented in his power and that you find terrible. On the other hand, you wish for an intentional principle. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: But not an art official!]] Thirdly, you criticise the fact that the responsibilities are unclear because the selection committee is content, what is being promoted, and the director determines the level of support. So this model is opposed to what you understand by the incision of power, namely, to a person alone who decides everything. That's why your criticism is unclear. We have a model which provides for the selection committee to determine what is being promoted, and the director determines the level of these fundings, including with clear responsibilities, and I think that is what I am doing. The Greens, in turn, say that is an intentional principle through the back door. That's not true. I believe – and I come to the end of it – that this is a good construction, as film is promoted. However, I am quite right to say that in the future it may be a question of discussing what to promote. It should not be underestimated that we have also increased the amount of film funding by 20 million to 120 million schilling, which is a great success, but it is, I admit, too little. In the United Kingdom, we have experienced that the film industry has experienced a boom due to subsidies from the national lottery. Within a short time, the number of films rose from 30 to 300 annually. There is also an agreement with Channel 4, which supports six young films from Channel 4. This, too, pushed the young movie perfectly. In the end, I think it is a matter of considering how we can make more money available to the Austrian film industry as a whole. But the way in which we decide today, I think it is a very sensible, classical and good regulation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e10798	There is no further statement of words to this effect. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. The debate is closed. We therefore come to the votes. We shall first proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 989 of the supplements. Mr Krüger and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment here. In addition, MEPs have tabled an amendment by Dr. Cap, Morak, Dr. Schmidt, Dr. Petrovic and Comrades, which was read by Mrs. Jäger. In addition, MEPs have given Dr. Schmidt and comrades submitted an amendment. First of all, I will have to vote on the parts concerned by the amendments, following the classification of the draft law, and finally on the remaining parts of the proposal, which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Dr. Schmidt and Comrades have tabled an amendment on paragraph 11(5) para. 7 lit. b. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to Schmidt's request to give a sign on this point. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. I shall now vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report and seek out a sign of it for those ladies and gentlemen who agree with the draft law as it stands. I note that this part has been adopted by majority vote. Deputies Dr. Krüger and Comrades have tabled an amendment which refers to paragraph 14 § 6 para. 1 refers. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree with Dr. Krüger's request to give a sign on this point. – I note that this is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. In addition, MEPs have tabled an amendment to Dr. Cap, Morak, Dr. Schmidt, Dr. Petrovic, which refers to paragraph 14 § 6 para. 1 first sentence. In the event of approval, I may request an important sign. . I note that this motion, Cap, Morak, Schmidt, Petrovic, was adopted by a majority. Finally, we shall proceed to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I should like to ask that those ladies and gentlemen who agree give a sign of approval. I note the decision-making by a majority. That concludes the second reading, and we shall come to the third reading immediately. I should like to ask that those ladies and gentlemen of the House who wish to give their assent to this motion at third reading should rise from the seats. – I note that the proposal was adopted by a majority in third reading. This item on the agenda is done. 6. Point Report of the Education Committee on the Government Template (938 of the Supplements): Federal Law on the Legal Personality of Religious Confessions (1013 of Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e10890	We're on the 6th. Agenda item. Is there a wish for oral reporting? – This is not the case, it is not. We shall then go into the deliberations immediately. The first speech is by Mrs Madl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e10917	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Before I go into the matter of the Government's draft on the legal personality of religious communities, I would like to describe the additions and circumstances in the committees and subcommittees so that you can understand my speech a little bit better. We were called up last week to a meeting of the Committee on Education, with the result that after a waiting period of half an hour we were able to attend a subcommittee to deal with this legal matter. We have seen liberals in this subcommittee and have claimed that very many documents and amendments have not been made to this bill. We have been less equipped with documents in the review procedure. But not only we liberals, the Greens and the Liberals have found the same condition. We were not even provided with the opinion of the Federal Chancellor's Office's Constitutional Service. At the time, we were really in the Committee, and after the government parties have played it down and said that the documents will have disappeared somewhere, perhaps in the various clubs or in the Parliamentary Directorate or elsewhere, we have then made a request for a postponement. We have also justified this request for a postponement, because we are distrustful of this matter of law, because some of the points in it that, as we did at the time, are not in conformity with the constitution. The request for adjournment was rejected. We too have been rejected by ÖVP and SPÖ on this matter, in which we are not sure to invite experts to the Subcommittee. On the same day as this meeting of the Subcommittee, however, we already had the second or third expert hearing on women's people's desires. There has therefore been a problem because this area includes various materials in which experts provide assistance to the honourable Member in their opinion-building. I did not understand why the same could not be possible in the Committee on Education. For ten years it has been known that the recognition law must be examined and that there must be a novelle to it. Once this has been kept silent, then it has been flattened again and again and again, and suddenly the matter should be decided in four hours, although we are not sure whether all the points contained in this government template are also constitutional. That is why the request for a postponement was made. We then criticised in the Subcommittee those points which we did not find in order, in which we were not sure whether they were in conformity with the Constitution, namely those points which required additional conditions for recognition under the recognition law. For example, point 2: Number of members of the population of Austria of at least 2 permill. – We said: Would that not create religious communities of first and second classes, namely those that already exist, and those that struggle for recognition? – We were assured that this was constitutional. At that time, we still had no – is that right, Mr Oillinger? – the opinion of the Constitutional Service of the Federal Chancellery. Only after massive protests has this paper suddenly appeared. We also criticized the turn of "positive basic attitude towards society and state". How can you measure a positive basic setting? What kind of blurry expression is that? Or: no unlawful interference of the relationship with the existing legally recognized churches. Who wants to be a judge here? Who wants to be the measure of all things here? That is what we have criticized in the Subcommittee. After an in-depth examination by constitutional experts over the last four days, we have now found that this government template is not constitutional in some respects, and that is why I am now making the following request: Request Mr Elfriede Madlund colleagues on referral pursuant to § 73 para. 3 Z 2 GOG NO The National Council wishes to decide: "refer to the Committee's report (1013 of the Supplements) for further consideration to the Teaching Committee the Government's document on the legal personality of religious communities (938 of the Supplements). [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I hope you will agree to this referral, because we are finally politicians, we are not all constitutional lawyers, and if we adopt laws that concern a large circle, we should also be sure that these are in conformity with the Constitution and therefore invite experts to these hearings and subcommittees.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e11009	The referral request shall be voted in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure after completion of the list of speakers. The next speaker is Mr Werner Amon. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e11036	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We do not like this referral request. If you do not have a line on the issue of dealing with pseudoreligious groups, guru movements, sects, this is your problem, at least we clearly address these groups to the fight. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: The Scientologists are with you, not with us!]] And if you don't have a line on this question to this day, you probably won't have one in 14 days. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to begin by saying that, under Article 63 of the State Treaty of Saint Germain and Article 6 of the State Treaty on the restoration of an independent and democratic Austria, the free exercise of religion, whether in the private or public sphere, is guaranteed to all residents, whether this community is recognized as a religious community or not. In particular, I would also refer to the provisions of the basic law and the European Convention on Human Rights, based on an individual right to religious practice. If we are debating today a federal law governing the legal personality of religious denominations, then one thing is very clear in advance: It is not the task of the state and it is not the task of politics to prescribe or recommend to people what they have to believe in or even what they can believe in. Rather, it is about ensuring the individual right to exercise religion freely, whether in the private or in the public sphere. On the other hand, it is very well the task of the State to ensure that such communities do not harm people that they are not exploited financially or Idea or sexually, that there is no interference with the mental development of young people, that there is no breach of mental integrity. The liberal rule of law and open society cannot and must not allow people to be harmed under the guise of religious freedom. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] If the State and thus society forgive something like a state seal of goodness in the form of the Act of Recognition from 1874 or in the form of this new federal law on the legal personality of denominational communities, one must also ensure that only those communities receive such a state seal of quality which does not rob people in any way of their freedom and fundamental rights. This is also very clear from § 5 in the law which is in force today on the basis of the decision-making process. On the one hand, Article 9 of the Convention on Human Rights, on the other hand, states that groups are to be prohibited by a legal personality which endangers the psychological development of adults by the violation of mental integrity and by the use of psychotherapist methods for the purpose of mediation. In our opinion, this is the right way, and I am very happy about this clarification. Mrs Madl! You represent the discussion in the Committee quite differently than it was de facto, because you very much approved of this draft. [[Abg. Madl: In ignorance of the constitutional situation!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You have also agreed to the contract regulations!]] They voted in favour of this draft, and there is agreement in the House that so-called sects – with all the problems of this concept, but I assume that we all know what is meant by it – must be declared to the struggle and that such groups must be seriously opposed. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You will be allowed to fail!]] However, I would also like to expressly tell you that what you find today in the "religious supermarket" must also be confronted with appropriate figures in order to ensure that not every x-any group, which is therefore the result, can obtain that state seal in the form of recognition, and therefore it is also necessary to set a minimum number as we do in this federal law. Last Saturday in the "Salzburger Nachrichten" is a very interesting and, as I mean, also objective report by Josef Bruckmoser on this new federal law, and I quote from it: "In the Austrian Parliament, MEPs will vote next week on a new religious law aimed, among other things, at refusing to accept organisations such as Scientology as a religion. In so far as it is right what critics blame for the draft law, it is not only a new law of recognition, but also a law of prevention." I agree: Yes, it is a law of prevention when it ensures that groups which are denied recognition to the democratic rule of law which is negative to the pluralist society. I agree: It is a law of prevention when it ensures that groups do not receive a state seal of quality, that the youngest children refuse medical, medical assistance. I agree: It is a law of prevention when it ensures that groups do not receive a state seal of quality, that children, when they enter school age, drag abroad, undergo brainwashing and then return to Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Did this happen to you?]] And it is ultimately a law of prevention when it helps prevent people from getting a state seal of quality that claims that 15 to 20 percent of the human race are mentally ill, that they should be forced into institutions, and that they should be deprived of any civil rights. In this sense, it is a law of prevention, and we stand for that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I have brought you real examples where, under the guise of religious freedom, so-called freedom of religion, human rights are violated and disregarded under the guise of religion. On the other hand, on the other hand, it is a federal law, the faith communities, religious communities that were still in a legal grey area, because on the one hand the association law in § 3a does not allow religious associations, but on the other hand they could not receive the great recognition within the meaning of the recognition law and therefore did not have any legal personality, now being just because it gives them the chance of legal recognition. This federal law alone will not solve the sect problem. We're not giving in to this illusion. There is certainly a need for further action in this context. I am thinking, for example, of the idea of setting up a National Council Committee of Inquiry, which is very intensive and comprehensive in dealing with the dangers that exist in the "religious supermarket" and can also draw up proposals on how to counter these problematic groups. Finally, I would like to thank the Minister-in-Office, Dr. Jonak, for the work he had done in the preparation of this federal law, and also the Federal Minister for thanking her for this hot potato – a hot potato more! – has adopted and today enables us to oppose such groups accordingly. This federal law is an important step towards protecting the Austrian population from pseudoreligious business-makers and pseudoreligious human rights violations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e11153	The next speaker is Mr Dr Kier. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e11174	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I was glad that Mr Madl had already tabled the request. Since we had already submitted our referral request, I am still making a request. Request by Dr. Volker Kier on the decision to refer back pursuant to § 53 para. 6 Z 2 GOG The National Council intends to refer back the report of the Teaching Committee on the Government Template 938 of the Supplements to a Federal Law on the Legal Personality of Religious Confession Communities for further consideration to the Teaching Committee. I do not assume that this referral request will find a majority, but it simply corresponds to mental hygiene to put it. We have already pointed out in the Committee that we are going to put it in place, and we were of the opinion that what was offered in the Subcommittee was simply unpleasant. This is because the real reason for the Subcommittee has been that experts can be heard there. I would like to draw particular attention to something in this House: All the members of the Committee on Education and therefore also the Subcommittee, in particular the chairman, were aware of the fact that, at this time, there had already been a petition in the House, which, although it had not yet been possible to deal with formally, was trying only to address a matter of concern, namely to make a hearing of experts. And we could have fulfilled this very easily if we had used the three hours reserved for the Subcommittee to debate not only among us, because we could do just as detailedly in the Committee, we did not need an extra subcommittee to hear it, but also constitutional experts. That would have been easy and important. I would also point out that all three opposition groups did not have the materials from the review at the beginning of the consultations. This was not a date for the opposition to the damage of the government parties. In the meantime, we've got them. We have studied them in detail. And I have to tell you: These opinions in the course of the review procedure contain things that I would not be so easily resolved about in your place. For example, the Federal Ministry of the Environment, Youth and Family, which is not far from your mind, Mr Amon, which is closely related to you, in particular to the division you have chosen today, says: The basic requirement for recognition – that is, the formulation, a positive basic attitude towards society and state – would lead to a level of supervision that is not desirable and not intended. Intervention rights are to be derived at most from Article 9 of the MRP, but not from a positive basic attitude towards state and society, but from the non-hazardous nature of the state order. That's what your family ministry says! What does the Federal Chamber of Commerce say, which is not quite far away from you? – Klubobmann Khol prefers to leave the plenary room in such cases. I also know why, because I will then quote it out of committee. That'll be quite interesting. [[Abg. Big Truck: That's a presumptuous now!]] That is not a presumption, Mr President. If you take that up, you're very easily touched. [[Abg. Amon: Mr Kier! Tell me what you want!]] The Federal Chamber of Commerce says it was difficult to dispute whether the acquisition and so on. She's got data protection concerns. A whole paragraph is devoted to this by the Federal Chamber of Commerce. And the Constitutional Service, which was said to have delivered a positive opinion, is expressly saying that the draft law contains all indications of non-discrimination – not a weak formulation! – and that the minimum number of two out of a thousand is a quantitative barrier to the recognition of religious communities, which is clearly not justified in substance. That's what the Constitutional Service says! Perhaps he is not very close to you, but the government parties are quite happy to appeal to him. These are already a few reasons why we want to give this advice in peace and quiet. In addition, the law contains things that I must say: Remarkable! . But first of all I would like to address Mr Amon briefly. Mr Amon! The Committee still has Her clubman in his capacity as university professor expressly stated that he would not want to know the word "sects" in this context because it is historically burdened. And he's not quite wrong with that, because the word "sects" actually has its own story. I remember times when people were also killed under the heading "Secrets". [[Abg. Amon: That was a very evil assumption!]] Therefore, the word "secrets" is actually not quite unladen. Only: What we mean together, what we are concerned about, too, is that what happens in part to manipulation also to children and to people who can easily be made dependent, you do not get under control by this law! We all agreed on this in committee. For this, this law is absolutely inappropriate. Absolutely inappropriate! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] If you are here from this speaker's desk, apparently intended for the public, now pretending as if the ÖVP were going to advance the flag in the fight against these pseudoreligious groups, as you have literally mentioned them in your speech, then it is misleading, because the pseudoreligious groups you think are not coming along in the robe of a sect, but they come as GesmbH, as a management institute, as a training institute, possibly even as a completely legal and authorized institution of therapy, and they are selling so to speak soul peace. [[Abg. Amon: And they come for recognition!]] They sell peace of mind, they buy people and press them into their dependence. We already know that, and we also believe that something should happen. But with this law, you won't do that. Because people who plan what we all fear know how to tarry – believe me! [[Abg. Amon: You won't get any state recognition!]] With this law you catch the Baptists because they with 16 000 members may have a little problem with the minimum number of two out of a thousand. You're gonna catch people like that! And, hopefully, these are not pseudoreligious groups in your world. You can catch this, and I think that is very, very bad, because we have had a relatively liberal and relatively tolerant way of dealing with religious communities in this country since 1874. Therefore, fortunately, we have already recognized Islam in Austria, for example, and we are saving ourselves the whole weary discussion that is now taking place in the Federal Republic of Germany. Islam is one of the three great monotheistic world religions. You know that as well as I do. And yet I'd say, He is not the natural friend of Christianity. [[Abg. Amon: But this is not for discussion!]] – Yes, but read your own legislative initiatives! According to them, you'd have a little problem. Because what is formulated there under state and society, these gay terms could all be applied against Islam – if we wanted. There would be a lot of things to say about this. In addition, I say to you: They have written a few things into the law that, if you think them through, allow interesting sizes. For example, for the religious communities of the second class, the so-called religious denominations, you create the instrument for the denial of legal personality, without dealing with any consequences. It's not that simple! If you deny someone's legal personality, then something's going on! He had at that time some property and any rights – beyond your regulatory right to annihilate this legal personality. That's so to speak. Your access: Let us destroy this evil legal personality! But there's a messy mess left behind. Then you can't even apply the insolvency law. This is the death of a legal personality, and the legal consequences are not regulated in this case. But you don't care, basically, she's gone again. I would just like to draw your attention to this: Once you introduce the instrument of approval, you will not be able to avoid applying the magnitude of this instrument to the Act of Recognition of 1874, at least mentally, because otherwise you will discriminate again. You create the "Religiongemeinschaft light", then you have the "Religiongemeinschaft heavy" from 1874 and special laws. At the "light" you can lift, at the "heavy" not? The "heavy" can become much, much more dangerous, if they are to be derailed, because they go along with a wealth of further privileges, as Professor Khol effectively carried out, namely to be a body of public law, to exercise religious teaching, to operate schools, and to publicly finance them, and so on and so on. That is why I say to you: You're setting an interesting path here. On the other hand: The threshold that you are now introducing by the law also intensifying the recognition law of 1874 by introducing new barriers with a minimum number of two out of a thousand, with a minimum of 16 000 members for a recognized religious community, has the result that two thirds of the now recognized religious communities in Austria would no longer skip this obstacle, such as "pseudoreligious groups" such as the Evangelical Church Helvetic Confession or those "coman" Greek Orthodoxs who remain below 16 000 members. You don't mean these pseudoreligious groups. I know. Only: Against these is the law! But against those who walk in as a management institution or as a GesmbH and do their dirty business, the law does not turn. Mr Amon! The law does not turn against these, for they will not come to ask for them. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Then we also learned from the Committee – Professor Khol taught us this – that the benefit is linked to the recognition under the Law of 1874 and not there. I'll tell you: Go to the Ministry of Finance and explain what you need to do if you feel that you should have a community status. You have to meet certain standards, and then you get them. As a "religion community light" one will also get it. Only: Because 1874 is the automatic inside, they have no reason. School problems: They said that it was impossible to do so, otherwise the new religious communities might begin to operate all schools. First of all, I do not see in us mass religious communities operating schools. However, there is a large religious community that does so intensively. [[Abg. Amon: There are also small ones who try this!]] The Catholic Church has grown historically as a great schoolkeeper. That's what it's supposed to be. I mean, the jubilant might be out, but it's supposed to be like that. Pluralism has its price. But then why other private schoolteachers who meet all the public standards that have public law don't get any promotion, you can't explain that to me unless you say the funds are scarce. To that I will answer: Well, if you are less important in this case than the scarce means, this is an interesting access to education policy, so to speak, educational offensive after Amon or after Khol; it is not there, so I do not want to address it. Every private school relieves the public hand, because the children do not sit in the school twice. That is why it is true that it costs something, but it does not become more expensive at all, but money goes only elsewhere. It goes to an autonomous school, to a school that manages itself and which is perhaps also a little more innovative. So you see: This forced link is not in agreement. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Now we've been thinking: What is the reason for the government's so-called hustling and pressing and so on before the 31st century? December 1997 to become a law? What's going on? – There is a incidental complaint pending at the Administrative Court. It has set the time limit for the statement of complaint by the Federal Government. And before the end of this declaration period, one wants to be able to say to the Administrative Court: We have a new law, and the law corrects the problem. For this reason, we have also put in place a retroactive provision, i.e. in the case of legal proceedings, provided that they are challenged by one of the courts of public law, the procedure will be reversed. That is why this is the case with the new regime, and thus it is unchallenged in relation to the Administrative and Constitutional Court. [[Abg. Amon: That will be changed!]] It may already be that you now come to an amendment, but that is unfair: not that you are doing this now, but that you have told us in the committee that this has ended, that is why we are not going to do so. [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: That's not true! That's not what you're saying!]] Fine, if you do, I'll praise you. However, this will not change the fact that the law is, in the rest, anti-equity, religious discrimination and partly privileged, introducing strange, unethical legal concepts, such as "in the interests of society" – an unmistakable legal concept! [[Abg. Amon: That is what we have changed in committee, Mr Kier!]] And precisely with these legal terms you open the so-called pseudoreligious groups door and gate. They're creating martyrs there. They're making excuses there. A headline in the "Kronen Zeitung" or elsewhere: "Amon fights against sects," you're worth the rule of law. And I'm sorry. Believe me! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Amon: That's ridiculous!]] Professor Khol therefore no longer likes to attend such a discussion. [[Abg. Amon: Mr Kier! Stay fair!]] That is also a pity, but it will be directed to him. He will then take advantage of his own possibility of perhaps misquoting or proportionally moving it elsewhere. In any case, he spoke quite differently in the Committee. Mr Amon, you were there. Let me tell you again: The incompatibility of the cultural situation with the law becomes very clear in this case. In the first draft, for example, the Cultuum had originally provided 100 as a limit for the "religion communities light". Then you have insisted that 100 is a number that creates a somewhat serious small religious community. That's what you've been thinking: 100's not enough, we're making 300. – We believe that this is pure legislation, because we have other legal areas where we are a little more generous, for example among the political parties. They will admit that political parties are important in society. And a few manage to actually work perceptibly in politics. But we have a few hundred parties because we have a very liberal right. The deposit, the publication of statutes – and the legal personality is there, the political party is created! That's very generous. I don't want to discuss this in detail now. But are those less dangerous than pseudoreligious groups if you are as suspicious as you are, Mr Amon? Statutes are published quickly. And what really is behind it first shows the reality of life. And there, I would say, should it be! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] If we deal generously with political parties, so to speak with ours, then we should not be as strangely inquisitorial in religious communities as if we could actually look into people with the means of administrative action. You believe in that. And anyone who believes that with the means of administrative action one can look into the people, who is shaming – inadvertently – three millimeters past what is called inquisition. Believe me! [[New congratulations to the Liberal Forum.]] Whoever believes that by means of the rule of law he can look in the heart and in the conscience – and everything else did not use anything in the sense of combating pseudoreligious groups – he goes a very dangerous way. He goes on a path where data protection data collection doesn't play a role anymore. Even if the Chamber of Commerce says it has data protection concerns, it is the sausage. At the same time, the Chamber of Commerce has not really been the gral guardian of data protection from the understanding that I have known from her so far, but this has been too much for these people too. Mr Amon! Hopefully awake You are not up one day and are the one who is at the test of the means of inquisition you have created here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e11410	The next speaker is Mr Antoni. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e11431	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mrs Madl is not here right now. I would have liked to make a few comments on their comments on the work in the Subcommittee. It is true when she says that it seems that not all political groups had the same information. However, I think that this is unfair to the subcommittee or the chairman, because it was the President who immediately tried to ask the Parliament's directorate what the distribution of the various opinions is like. We have also been quickly informed that the same information has been shown to all clubs. You can now take note of this or not. Mrs Madl has apparently not taken note of it. Mr Madl also says that the discussion in the Subcommittee was chaotic. So I didn't experience it that way. On the contrary: There was an objective, open, fair discussion there, for example in the way it has now led my previous speaker, Mr Kier. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats not only supported a request from the government coalition, but also approved the draft law in the subcommittee, so I do not at all understand why the proposal now comes from this side of the House to reject this law. But let me make a few brief fundamental remarks about the bill: I would like to point out that the SPÖ, of course, stands for freedom of faith and conscience and for all freedom of religious exercise. This is legally secured in the guarantee of fundamental rights for every person who lives in Austria. In our view, the draft law does not concern how many times it is claimed to discriminate against religious groups or even to adopt a two-class religious law, but it is also a question of creating a legal status for those religious denominations that meet certain criteria which they have not had so far. Ladies and gentlemen! We simply have to take note - and I am right in saying to Mr Amon - of the fact that there are groups in our states today, which are primarily not about the mediation of religious content, but about economic interests; often also because of the need to make people mentally, physically, socially and economically dependent. Now I also believe that it is not the task of the state, nor can it be to evaluate or judge what someone believes in what someone wants or can believe in. However, I believe that it is very important for policy to act in a informative and informative manner to protect people from these dangers. The Socialist Group has taken a close look at this matter. Many discussions have taken place with representatives of religious or religious communities, and I can say that we have already formulated three particularly important criteria for possible recognition in the run-up to the discussion. I can speak to these here for a moment. It is absolutely unacceptable that psychotherapical methods are used in the mediation of faith. That was our first point. The second point was that the entry into a religious community, but also the withdrawal of such an absolutely voluntary one, must be made. It must even be possible to leave if one registers with the relevant County Headquarters team. And thirdly, we have demanded that no fees or other financial benefits should be required by the retired person on the occasion of the withdrawal. I also believe and say it again quite consciously that the discussion in the Subcommittee was constructive. It was called a number of concerns of constitutional nature. We then made two amendments and a committee statement. We have brought them in together, and they have finally – and I must say that already – been unanimously adopted with the votes of the opposition. I believe that the essential constitutional concerns have been overcome. I should now like to make another request: [[Quoted print version removed]] We therefore believe that this law is a good way to give legal status to many religious groups in Austria and to underline their activities accordingly. Nevertheless, we believe that we should be willing to put together once again after a few years of the effectiveness of this law to consider the improvements that are necessary due to further social developments. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e11526	The request of Dr. Antoni and Dr. Khol to this federal law is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. The voluntary speaking time is 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e11551	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Before: We agree with the request for referral back to the Liberals and Liberals. I believe that it is precisely after what we have discussed in the Committee, and also after what I have experienced in discussions in the meantime, that there is a need – even if only a very shaky audience of this debate is listening here – to continue to discuss this question before we reach a decision. I'm going to notice one thing: I do not want a political group here to believe that it has the intention of not acting consistently against certain groups that act as cults or religious cults. I do not want to put this into any political group. It is precisely because I have come to know Mr Amon not only in committee, but also in committee, as someone who is able to argue quite differently on this issue, just as Mr Kier said by Mr Khol, it is incomprehensible to me that we should decide on this draft law here and today. – After all, it was Col. Khol, who said that the term "sect" is a concept of struggle of the Catholic Church and therefore useless. As I met the two colleagues – and I am counting on all other colleagues who have discussed this issue in the Subcommittee – it is really incomprehensible to me. For one thing I would like to say: In the Committee and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection there have not only been amendments on the part of the government parties – one of them we are experiencing today – but also concerns about this law as to whether it is actually in some way in line with the legal basis. Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! I must say to you that I am surprised that you are firmly and firmly claiming that this law is on the test of the liberal rule of law. And if we do not adopt this law, then there are problems, then the liberal rule of law may go before the dogs. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, I could now read to you the opinions of numerous ministries, from the Ministry of the Interior, from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, from the Constitutional Service of the Federal Chancellery, from the Ministry of Justice, from the Ministry of Family Affairs, all of which are opposed. All the top officials in the Ministries who have spoken out to this law – it is not just the Ministries who have spoken for it – reject it, stress that this law is unconstitutional in fundamental principles. And here you come and say that if we do not adopt this law, the liberal rule of law is at risk. You don't take yourself seriously! It is not often enough to emphasize which displeasure here is driven with words, with martial terms: "Liberal rule of law at the test stage"; "If we don't agree, everything is in danger!" - That was Mr Amon. [[Abg. Dr. Niederweiser: Who?]] Ladies and gentlemen! If I had a bill with such destructive criticisms of numerous ministries, but not only of these, but also of churches, of church lawyers, of other institutions, then I would be more careful and would go into myself and ask myself if perhaps with this bill some things are wrong. It's not just the ministries, it's not just the top officials. I was astounded at the fact that in the Committee on Ministerial Affairs, with which I had talks, I called myself a church lawyer, Professor Potz, so to speak, as a witness to this law. I then read the opinion of Professor Potz in detail after this committee, and I myself was amazed to see that, in accordance with this opinion of the University Professor Potz, Institute of the Law of the Church, there was no point in this law that would be somewhat represented. There are also statements by the Evangelical Churches, Augsburg and Helvetic Confession, and there is no coincidence – this is a minority church in Austria, which is certainly more sensitive on this issue – that even in this statement by the Evangelical churches it is clear that they have great concerns in this law. Even in the only absolutely positive opinion, namely that of the Bishops' Conference of the Catholic Church, it is clear that one should actually think far beyond this law and in principle rethink the questions of the recognition of churches and religious communities, as they are governed by the Law of Recognition. As part of the Conference of Bishops, the Catholic Church states that it is ready to do so. But if I listen to the government parties in this way, I cannot find that anyone would be willing to discuss it. And this is a problem, ladies and gentlemen, of the government parties you have with this draft. In principle, they ignore all the opinions, even those of the Catholic Church, which says that the law of recognition is also in the old form of debate, which says: We wish for a debate on the role and importance of churches and religious communities in this society, and therefore we are also willing to discuss this recognition law. All the opinions emphasize this, but you go with one – I would say – unfrozenness and say, if we do not adopt this law, then everything is in the bucket, then the sects overrun Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to point out to you that: Bring First, you'll be fine with your homework! Clarify the conditions with regard to so-called sects and destructive cults – or whatever term you want to use because all terms are problematic in this respect. But one thing has already been said in this context, and this has also been emphasised by Church Lawyer Potz in his opinion, which I believe has been sent to all political groups: This law, even if you decide in this form, is not appropriate to clarify and regulate the issue of sects in any form. In no way! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Posch.]] What you are doing with this law is, in my view, – I am not alone in this opinion – a gross intervention in constitutional freedoms. Mr Niederweiser! You can be disheartened, but that's not my opinion. I repeat, it is the opinion of numerous ministries, of church lawists and also of large churches who see this as well as the Greens, the Liberals and, again, the Freedoms. It is not as if here only a small group, a small party, were to express their opinion, but that is the result of all opinions. You must also read these opinions. I'm expecting that. We only had the opportunity to read all the opinions after the Committee, and I have studied them very thoroughly, I can assure you. I have studied them very thoroughly, and there is no doubt that all these statements on this law are actually destructive, especially as regards the great principles that this law seeks to regulate. I'm just calling a few: The law raises the claim – the term has already fallen – to be a two-class law for religious communities. That's not true, I emphasize. We don't have two classes, we have at least five classes. We have the churches and religious societies, which are already recognised by the recognition law, of which – which is also pointed out in the opinions – only four or five – are twelve in total – would be left if we applied the criteria of this new law on religious denomination communities. Only four or five would be left! What is your answer, Mr Niederweiser, to the fact that only four or five would be left? However, we do not only have the recognition law, but also this new federal law on religious denominations, which creates two classes: the religious denominational communities and those to be recognized as churches or religious societies in accordance with the new procedure, which detoxifies the old law of recognition. But this happens after a completely different key, according to completely different principles. That is, we now have a third class: the religious communities according to the new law and the recognized churches according to the new law. Then we have a fourth class, these are those religious communities that have been recognized since 1981 according to the association law. And then we have a fifth class, these are those religious communities that are not recognized; neither according to the new law that we are to decide today, nor according to the association law. I wonder how one can be so measured and figure out and say: That's how we deal with the problem of sects. No trace of it! To deal with this problem – I think Mr Amon has already dealt with it – would not harm. Mr Kier referred very correctly to the dress in which such communities hide. They don't need recognition under the new law. For these, it is enough to be recognized according to the association law. And if that is not enough, then they act as a labour market care association – there is also – as a company consultancy, management advice or what else I know. And no one can clearly prevent them from doing so, because one case we already have publicly in a request from the liberals or in a report from the city newspaper "Falter". No one can and wants to prevent a group such as Scientology from operating on behalf of the labour market service. - Well, that's what happens! How can we test that? And you think you can prevent this law? You can only laugh at so much imagination. Of course, this is not possible. Under this law is a gross presumption of the legislator, but not only a presumption, but also an attempt to intervene in fundamental rights. In particular, the legislator adopts a number of measures in certain terms, for example in Section 11, in which he requires that the recognition procedure "a positive basic attitude towards state and society" – that is, paragraph 4 – or "no illegal disorder of the relationship with the existing legally recognized churches and religious societies and other religious communities". This is a gross presumption, I think, because, of course, we have also discussed it in the Committee's deliberations, there is something like competition between the religious communities. Now only! For example, no one would want to blame Islam for being in a clear competition with the Catholic Church, as Mr Kier pointed out. According to this law, Islam would not be recognized. He has no positive relationship with the Catholic Church. Nor does it necessarily have a positive relationship with society and state. And I'll tell you another: No community of belief, which must be recognized under the association law, no party, which can be recognized in Austria under the law of the parties, needs to have this positive basic attitude, and you are considering putting people into their religious confession. They consider that they want to dictate that they should first clarify the difference with other religious communities and, secondly, prove a positive relationship with state and society in their religious view. Do you know what you're talking about? - I don't think you know. In the concrete discussion with certain religious groups, sects, cults – no matter what you want to call it – we are dealing with quite specific phenomena. I'm taking care of the Scientology group because I don't think it's a religious group. I'll take care of her. We have to deal with this elsewhere. But if, for example, I want to discuss the questions of Jehovah’s Witnesses, I think of two things that I want to discuss and discuss as a legislator in a discussion with Jehovah’s Witnesses: On the one hand, this is the question of parental law in the case of transfusions for minor children – a very difficult question because fundamental rights are also affected, but an important issue in the interest of children. The second question that I believe needs to be clarified and clarified with Jehovah’s Witnesses is how, for example, Jehovah’s Witnesses deal with those who, in the context of Jehovah’s Witnesses, are working free of charge in order-like communities, some of whom are there for life but are sent home in the case of sickness. Because they have lost the trust of God, they are sent out. I not only think that this is inhuman, but I think it is a case of discussion in which the state has to deal with a religious community, which burden or burden this religious community wants to overcome on the state or also on the family. I think it is a legitimate desire to clarify these questions as well as those of blood transfusion. [[Abg. Dr. Leiner: But you can't talk to them about this!]] I believe that this is completely legitimate, but it needs a different discussion, Mr Leiner. These possibilities could also be created. Find the dialogue with these groups! [[Abg. Dr. Leiner: I have been looking for the dialogue – as a doctor!]] I have also proposed in the Subcommittee that a body be set up in which it is possible to seek out this dispute and to find rules that erode the conflicts between state and religious communities. But please explain to me what this has to do with the positive basic attitude to state and society! Surely, they will not demand from Jehovah’s Witnesses that they distance themselves from their basic attitude as objectors. [[Abg. Dr. Leiner: No, no!]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[Abg. Dr. Leiner:... the blood transfusion!]] What does blood transfusion have to do with the positive basic attitude towards state and society? - She has nothing to do with it. It has something to do with human rights. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] She has something to do with children's fundamental rights, but she has nothing to do with what you are trying to describe here, ladies and gentlemen! She has absolutely nothing to do with that. I ask of you in the discussion also with the small churches, with the religious groups, with the sects a bit serious, and these you miss. The limit of 16 000 is a limit which you have consciously withdrawn in order not only to prevent the so-called destructive cults and sects from being recognized. They also prevent the recognition of millennia-old churches, for example the Coptic church, which prevents the recognition of the Mennonites – that is not a problem for you – and the Baptists. These are not yet thousands of years, but they have been for over 100 years. These are problems you need to face, but you don't want to stand up. You decide a law or decide to decide here in this House, which you are convinced of and also know that it is not appropriate to regulate the problem of sects. You are convinced that this will help only the recognized churches and religious communities. It is supposed to have its advocacy. For example, they probably do not know what played a role in the opinion of Professor Potz, namely, that a church such as the Lord’s Church of Brothers consisted of 380 persons. It was recognized by the old Danube monarchy in 1880, which was recognized as a church – recognition law. This religious community, which is no longer there, but which is still governed by the recognition law as a religious community, would no longer have a chance to be recognized in accordance with your laws. I also believe that the Catholic Church would no longer have a chance to be recognized according to these foundations which you decide here. – Do you know what you decide here, ladies and gentlemen?
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e11659	Mr Dr Niederwieser, rapporteur, spoke on an actual correction. Time limit: 2 minutes. I would ask you to respect the provisions of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e11684	Mr Oellinger pointed out that Islam could no longer be recognized under this law, because it has no positive basic attitude to the Catholic Church which is supposed to be prescribed under this law. I'm actually correcting and I just need to read the law or the draft: It needs a "positive basic attitude towards society and state" and, then, Mr. Oillinger, that's a big difference – "no illegal disorder of the relationship with the existing legally recognized churches and religious societies and other religious communities". – No illegal disorder! This is something quite different from a positive basic attitude to the Catholic Church. You're confusing a lot here.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e11735	The next speaker is Mr Dr Höchtl. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e11756	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Oellinger concluded his speech on the question: Do you know what you decide? [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: We are, but he is not!]] – Mr Oillinger! We know very well what we decide. We decide, consciously, because we want to. We have a purpose behind that. We simply decide on the concrete outcome of what we have been negotiating for more than half a year, what we have been discussing and what is available for decision-making today. I would therefore particularly like to address some of the comments made by some of the opposition speakers because, as chairman of the Committee on Education and as chairman of the Subcommittee in which this whole law has been dealt, I have, of course, experienced some of the things that are contrary to the behaviour that is now being displayed in plenary. First: It is the great accusation that this law would be unconstitutional. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. May. Barmüller: This is "exactly so-called" unconstitutional like the contract regulations!]] If, as the two government parties ÖVP and SPÖ, we thought that we were doing something unconstitutional, then we might have taken the instrument of the Constitutional Provision et cetera. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: That's a question of opinion, that's right!]] But we believe that the Constitution is what we are putting forward in this law. Therefore, no constitutional provision is contained in this Act. Mr Oellinger! Important is: Anyone who believes that in any form a provision would be unconstitutional, of course, can call on the Constitutional Court and thus try to bring about a constitutional decision. The Constitutional Court could do away with it. This means, of course, that we leave the way open to the Constitutional Court because we know that this is very important, and because we are convinced that we have presented a constitutional proposal to the House in accordance with this proposal. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Secondly, The historical view of Mr Kier, whom I have followed closely, irritated me a little, when he said very one-sidedly: By claiming to have heard a sect, one has been sent to death. Mr Kier! What you have not said is the reality that has taken place worldwide in the last 12 to 19 years. These were not those that were claimed to belong to a sect that had been killed by non-sect members. I have compiled the statistics of the last 19 years for this debate. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: But they don't catch you with this law!]] [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] Mr Kier! In the last 19 years, there have been no fewer than 1,273 mass murders and mass suicides that have occurred in such sects. [[Abg. Oillinger: And what do you want with this law?]] That is the reality, ladies and gentlemen. The sects have murdered their own members, and it is therefore of course necessary to deal with such groups very carefully. In the last five years alone, there have been 240 murders or suicides in such sects. In other words, this is groups where there must be great respect in the sense of caution, because we do not want such things in Austria. We want to warn you about it in good time. We want to do everything we can to avoid bringing such apparitions to Austria! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The third claim was: You make a law because you just want to do something very quickly to solve all that is a problem of the sects. . We know, Mr Oellinger and Mr Kier, that this is only an aspect of the entire spectrum. We know that a great deal of value is undoubtedly needed to win people so that they do not get into the hands of the sects. But we do one thing with this law: For the first time since 1874, we have been adopting a substantial new regulation, which gives us a chance at all to provide for some kind of intermediate level for such categories, which will allow us to meet certain criteria that will ensure that this legal personality is acquired sui generis. That is what we achieve by this law. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! We from the Austrian People's Party and certainly also the Social Democratic Party are ready to discuss at any time new aspects that raise this sect problem. We have also made an offer to hold a survey on the dangers of sects in Parliament. It is possible to decide on this. We are convinced that this law provides a good basis for work, and we are grateful to the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs that she has given the courage to bring this law to the House after decades. Because it is necessary, it is desirable, and I think it is a good basis for the next years to deal with all the religious groups. – We agree with our conviction.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e11865	Mrs Gehrer has now spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e11886	Mr President. High house! The problem, which is a sect, which is a pseudoreligious community, which is a religious community, has been strongly discussed in recent years. I have had a lot of discussions, and it has always been said in these discussions that there should be the possibility of giving smaller denomination communities, religious denominations a legal personality. This discussion was also held against the background of association law. We have examined all this very carefully and we have seen that this is not possible in association law. After a long discussion, we then decided to present this law to a legal personality for religious denominations. No one has claimed that the problem of sects is absolutely solved, that there can no longer be any pseudoreligious groups. It is true, however, that this law can provide some guidance. If I look at why a legal personality according to § 5, which has already been mentioned several times, is failing, the prohibition refers to Article 9 of the Convention on Human Rights. Then there are explanations of the reasons for this. These explanations were made in order to comply with the recommendations from the review procedure. I would like to point out what is being done here. Article 9 of the Convention on Human Rights: It is necessary to fail if this is necessary to protect the interests of public security, public order, health and morality in a democratic society, or to protect the rights and freedom of others, with a view to teaching or applying them. Then the following is carried out: This is particularly true in the event of a call for an illegal behaviour threatened with punishment, in the event of a disability to the psychological development of adolescents, in the event of a breach of mental integrity and in the application of psychotherapeutic methods, in particular for the purpose of mediating faith. That's what we're saying quite clearly: If these circumstances exist, then the legal personality is denied. This is not a fundamental right. No adult people in the world can be forbidden from joining a pseudoreligious group. But we can provide guidance to people in our country. I think that's important and right! It was a great desire of small religious communities to be able to acquire this legal personality. It was not the desire to preserve the large body of public law. With this law we have created this possibility. I say to you, all the reviews, all the opinions that have come, we have read very intensively. In his introductory remarks, Mr Potz, in particular, writes that he very much welcomes this draft. As a result, he is still making suggestions as to how it can develop. There are always possibilities for further development and opportunities for improvement. I therefore say quite clearly: This law is the possibility for religious denominations to acquire legal personality. But it is also the possibility of failing to provide guidance to people in our country under the conditions I have mentioned. It does not contradict the fundamental right to free exercise of religion, nor does it contradict our constitution after in-depth examination. This, I believe, has created a good basis for further constructive work in this area.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e11937	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Dr. Grollisch. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e11959	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! We are debating a special association law here for religious purposes. Today, colleague Höchtl left the cat out of the bag and spoke of a sect prevention law – although not expressis verbis, but according to the content. Mrs. Federal Minister! We do not explore the efforts to overcome this problem, nor do we explore your attempt to define a religious community with the five or seven points you have set. However, after in-depth deliberations, we have also gained in constitutional terms – Mrs Madl has already suggested this – the realization that this law is not ready to vote in this form. We have called on the Committee to give us the opportunity to find formulations which can lead to a multi-party or a five-party proposal. For this sensitive matter does not tolerate shooting out of the hip. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mrs. Federal Minister! You have now presented your motives to us in a very idealistic form. They have not told us – what Mr Öllinger has suggested – the need for what time limits there are already, how unfinancially the law 1978 would continue to apply it consistently, is basically for us. Their idealistic requirements do not stand up to reality. Mr Höchtl has now said that we have discussed this for half a year. I would like him to have said that in the future. – Give us half this year to negotiate about it! As we were forced to vote in committee with the subsequent subcommittee and then immediately again in committee, this is intolerant. We have already submitted to the Committee an agreement on the sharing of this law with reservations, because we were only made available in the form of a post-fix, i.e. after the discussions, the documents were made available in the appropriate form. This matter is not ready to vote. However, I did not have the impression in the Committee that such fundamental concerns as they have been expressed by Liberals and Greens today existed. I had the impression, rather, that, especially after hearing and after appropriate preparations, a five-party agreement could indeed be possible. That is why I would ask you, including the two opposition parties, to open up this possibility. Perhaps it is still possible for the government parties to take a step back, perhaps reason will come back, perhaps we will be given the opportunity to participate again! Mr Stadler referred the matter to this Committee in the 'Kurier': To want to form the problem of sects with a new recognition law is a thematic error. – That's exactly the way it is: That's an attempt to get the matter under control and still don't call things expressis verbis, that's a round-the-hot-bring around, but not a grip on matter. The subject has not yet been poured out and debated. I would therefore like to repeat once again the request for referral back to committee. We do not want to create the five-class religious communities, as we have called our colleague, Ollinger, with this hip-shoot law – and that is the end of it. By the way, there would be a sixth, namely the nonreligious denominations, which one would also have to subsume. One wanted to eliminate the grey zone – that is how the ÖVP came across the media. As a result, gray shadows have been created in a variety of forms up to the deep black. And to keep that, will probably have been the real reason of this law. That is why I would ask you to agree to our request. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e12013	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Niederwieser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e12034	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) This debate was repeatedly referred to by several previous speakers on the government template or opinions, and precisely with these opinions on a draft assessment, the constitutional non-constitution or serious objections were argued. This may also be the problem of this discussion. For, ladies and gentlemen, we are not voting on the draft directive or on the government proposal, but we are voting on the report of the Committee on Education, and this is a law which has undergone significant changes. [[Abg. Oellinger: You don't get through with this, colleague Niederwieser!]] A few of these amendments, which take into account exactly the above-mentioned objections, I will now list you. First: A criticism was that according to § 2 a six-month period is required, but the time limits are normally shorter. We have delivered a clear opinion in the Committee's report, which is why this six-month period is necessary. At the same time, an existing Abs. 3 was deleted, according to which this six-month period could have been continuously extended and a very long procedure could have been put in place. The reason for this serious objection was completely removed, so these objections were taken into account. Secondly, In some contributions it was also applied that it is difficult to prove that no one belongs to any other religious community or community of religion. . There is a clarification in the Committee's report as to how this should be done, for example by means of an affidavit. This objection was also taken into account. Thirdly, and that was the really central point: Mr Oellinger, I have also looked through the opinions, but I then took the time to read the Committee's report and the draft on which we are now voting: The main grounds for refusal were not the human rights convention, the wording was a slightly different one. Now we have formulated the grounds for refusal in § 5 exactly according to the Convention on Human Rights. [[Abg. Oils: Thank God!]] Fourth point: Protection of mental integrity, particularly of young people. It has come from the liberals of the objection to a provision that psychological integrity could have been violated by psychotherapists if they had the appropriate training for it. This objection of the liberals – and I say this clearly here – has really impressed us, and it has been taken into account. The corresponding provision is now in another wording. Fifth point: Mr Kier was very concerned that there were special delivery provisions, some kind of special delivery law. – This section is missing now, now the normal delivery procedure applies. Sixth point: There have also been concerns that, under certain circumstances, procedures currently pending could not have been brought to an end. Mr Antoni has already read a corresponding amendment. With all this, I would like to tell you that, if you raise objections from the review procedure, you should also have the size to acknowledge that the decision we are taking here today really takes a number of essential objections into account, so that we can say: This law is in accordance with our constitution. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Now you could say: There are the existing recognized churches and religious communities, and there are those who are to be assessed according to the new law, and there are other conditions. Let me give you an example from many: The National Council has adopted a GesmbH Act and has prescribed much stricter requirements for new companies with limited liability, which are now to be fulfilled. Nevertheless, there are thousands of existing gesmbHs, which of course can continue to exist with a lower stock capital. In this context, there are a number of similar materials. This is by no means unconstitutional! It was interesting how the liberals responded. The Liberals have raised a number of objections in the Committee. The political groups held a very constructive discussion in the subcommittee and with the experts present in the section. [[Abg. Madl: Which one?]] I think there are excellent experts for this. Then the following thing happened: You have said that you do not have the opinion of the Constitutional Service. Two hours later it turned out that you had the opinion of the Constitutional Service of course, but that you did not realize it because on page 1 there was the cover of the Federal Chancellor's Office, since the statements of the Constitutional Service were sent by the BKA. So you had to admit that you had the opinion anyway, that you only did not see it or did not recognize it as such. Irrespective of the fact that you will first vote in committee. But since you had not previously obtained the consent of your "Obertheologian" Stadler, it was questionable what you would do in the end. "Ayatollah" Stadler then clearly meant that you should vote against it. I therefore think that this should not affect us too much. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wabl.]] Ayatollahs belong to a recognized religious community with recognized functions. I beg you! What's the point of your objection? [[Abg. Wabl: We know exactly what it meant!]] So let me conclude by saying: The impression raised by the opposition side that we restrict religious freedom is in no way true. This law lays down criteria for those religious denominational communities that want state recognition – no more and no less. I believe that it is with this in a number of requests which are currently being made in a very constitutional form. It is possible to take into account ways of doing so without any kind of intervention in religious freedom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e12126	Mrs Horngacher has now come to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e12147	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to go a little deeper in this debate, because if religious creeds are spoken, then there should also be talk of religion. Ladies and gentlemen! Religion is very important in the lives of many people. Man feels that behind everything there must be an order, that is, there must be a governing God. Religion serves the value-orientation in the co-existence of people. Especially the Christian Church, which, with its ten commandments of God, clearly states that the first commandment is the love of God expressed in charity, has for many centuries predestined how we should deal with one another and live with one another. If people were more committed to it, then there would be more justice in this world! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In principle, every citizen of our country has the right to free exercise of religion. Austria has several state-recognised churches. The new law is now intended to establish the concept of religious denominations. However, since some groups find it difficult to understand the purpose of the Community, the following needs to be taken into account in the recognition: The religious community must reveal its statutes, which I think is particularly important, and it must represent its purposes and objectives, as well as the rights and obligations of its members. Recognition may be granted only if the doctrine is not directed against health and morality and the protection of the rights and freedoms of others. Such communities may not be recognised if there is a disability to the psychological development of adolescents or the use of psychotherapical methods for the purposes of mediation. Because it would be dangerous if trained psychotherapists were to be used for the purpose of mediating faith. People must not be taken free will by any means. It is therefore important for the district administration to be able to leave, and there must be no financial charges and obstacles due to the withdrawal. Especially at a time when we are increasingly confronted with the so-called orientationlessness of young people, but on the other hand, there is a deep longing for meaning and a deep discussion of values and a certain trend towards the formation of new communities, we need to distinguish precisely. In order to protect the young people who are looking for a stop somewhere, pseudoreligious groups, which are only aimed at economic profit, must be stopped. Therefore, it would be important to give the young people real models, because then the gurus would have less access. The new law gives confession communities the opportunity to be more than just an association. And those who are only out of business or who violate human rights must continue to fail in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Let me also say something to honourable Members: They always complain mainly of the procedure in the committees or elsewhere, but they hardly deal with the direct subject matter. I have not heard any constructive proposals from you yet. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Kier.]] I find it unheard of to speak of inquisition in this context! Mr Oellinger! They have faced so much with the positive basic attitude towards society and state. It is, however, about the fact that these communities want the recognition of the state, and if they want the recognition of the state, they will have a positive basic attitude towards that state, for otherwise they will not need the recognition of that state. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am also a bit disappointed by the liberals. In the Committee they have tabled a very good amendment which we have supported. This has gone through the committee and the liberals have declared that they will give their consent to this law. Today it seems that everything is different again. That's a shame. We would have been pleased if you had agreed to this law, because that is an important step.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e12234	The last speaker in this debate was Mr Stippel. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e12256	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! As a Social Democratic, I would like to say that social democracy and religion are no contradictions. Rather, we respect the confession to a religious faith as well as to a non-religious view of the world as the innermost personal decision of each individual person. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] That is why we are in favour of this draft law, and that is why, in particular, three important basic conditions, which my colleague Antoni has already mentioned, are in favour of our approval. I repeat this: There must be no psychotherapist pressure on members, entry and retirement must be possible without problems, and there must be no repressals of an economic and social nature. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! This draft law is a model of the association law, which is known to prohibit the establishment of religious societies, but it is more stringent – it has also been criticised – in relation to, for example, the number of members. This draft standardises the acquisition of legal personality for a religious community, and The acquisition of legal personality, in turn, is the prerequisite for the recognition of a religious community as a legally recognized church and religious society. At present, as mentioned in this debate, there are twelve in Austria. The recognition of the law that we have to decide today gives us, as it were, an highlighted position as a community of confession. There are currently more than 20 applications in the Federal Ministry of Education and Cultural Affairs, and until recently there have been different legal views of the highest courts in this regard. ==References====External links== However, this year the Administrative Court has joined the Constitutional Court's opinion. In the case of applications for recognition under the Act of Recognition of 1874, either an approval regulation or a negative decision shall be adopted. That is to say, there is a enforceable legal claim, which, however, no longer meets the statutory conditions for recognition of the Law of 1874. It is therefore necessary to close this legal gap, and this is to be done with the draft law in force today on the basis of the decision. It is important – and this has already been stressed – that there are no constitutional provisions in the law. This means that control by the Constitutional Court is given at all times, and there is no intervention in existing fundamental rights either. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In accordance with Article 63 of the State Treaty of St. Germain and in accordance with Article 6 of the 1955 State Treaty, all residents are guaranteed free exercise of religion, both private and public, regardless of whether the religious community is legally recognized or not. Now, however, it is about the possibility of acquiring legal personality for a religious community. With the federal law to be decided here shortly, the door will be opened and we will be happy to give this door the consent.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e12310	There is no more word message for this. The debate is closed. A conclusion of the report is not sought. We come to the votes and I ask you to take the seats. On the draft law concerning a federal law on the legal personality of religious denominations in 1013 of the Supplements, the representatives of Dr. Kier and Madl and comrades each submitted a referral request. I therefore leave these referrals to the vote and ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of having the draft law referred back to the Committee on Education in 1013 to give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall therefore now proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1013 of the supplements. Deputies Dr. Antoni, Dr. Khol and comrades have tabled an amendment concerning § 11. In view of the fact that there is only one amendment tabled, I shall immediately refer to the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report, taking account of the amendment tabled by Dr Antoni, Dr. Let Khol and comrade vote. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are voting for it to be a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The request has been accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also give their approval to the draft at third reading to give a sign. – That too is the majority. The draft law is also adopted by a majority of the third reading. 7. Point Report of the Education Committee on the Government Template (934 of the Supplements): Federal Law amending the School Organisation Act (1014 of Supplements) 8. Point Report and request of the Teaching Committee on the draft federal law amending the Federal Act on professional ageing (1015 of the Supplements) 9. Point Report of the Education Committee on the Government Template (935 of the Supplements): Federal Law amending the School Education Act (1017 of the Supplements) 10. Point Report of the Education Committee on the Government Template (936 of the Supplements): Federal Law amending the Federal Law on Agricultural and Forestry Schools (1018 of Supplements) 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report of the Education Committee on the Government Template (937 of the Supplements): Federal Law amending the Federal Law on Schools for the Training of Physical and Sports Teachers (1016 of Supplements) 12. Point Report by the Committee on Education on Amendment No 472/A (E) by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Leopold Schögglund Comrades on the continuation of the School of Fashion and Clothing of the Community of Cross Sisters in Bruck/Mur (1021 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e12454	We now come to points 7 to 12 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are immediately entering the debate. I am the first speaker to give Mr Dipl.-Ing. I'll give you the floor. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e12485	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Minister, I may ask for your attention, first and foremost, to express a congratulation. As ordered in the tomorrow edition of the "Kurier": "Pferential certificate. Congratulations. We're favourite students. The OECD compared education systems" and so on. – Congratulations, Minister! Somewhere, however, this success story has to be broken down. But I'll come to talk to you a little later. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In principle, professional maturity examination is to be welcomed as part of a continuous education system. On the other hand, it must not be a cheap issue of the Matura or an Occasion Matura – no matter what you want to call it. Ads are already being advertised for coming to Matura with only four examinations and thus reaching the full degree qualification. In this context, critical voices are increasing increasingly within the teachership. You certainly know the magazine of the GÖD, the strong partner for a secure future – this is still about the pension debate – I quote: "So what's going on? A few will go to the university, many are made unrealistic hopes. Hopes that are bitterly destroyed, in particular, if the participants want to change their decision. Then: Partial examinations of the conventional matura are fully recognised in the case of a change to the professional maturity test, but the reverse process does not apply. But then it's too late, time and money are rejected. Thus, a new dead end could inevitably arise – the one of the professional maturity tests." – Teachers of the BFI in the GÖD magazine of November 1997. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! You seem to have gotten scared of your own courage, and that is why a sentence that can hardly be surpassed in its non-binding nature is attached to § 46 of the School Organisation Act, which reads as follows: "In order to prepare for the professional maturity test, interested students should, as far as possible, be encouraged by differentiation measures in teaching and by free materials." That's where you're wondering: Who's to pay for this? It's not supposed to cost anymore. There is no word here about what is happening if this commitment, which is actually none, is not complied with because there is no way for it to be done. Therefore, this remains a sentence according to the motto: If it doesn't use anything, it won't hurt. A sedative sedative is being administered, but de facto will not be promoted. This will remain a non-binding sentence in the law. The creation of the possibility, discussed in the Committee, of the possibility of talented part-examinations before completion of training, is to be welcomed. However, as has been said, there will not be any promotions due to this Lapidar sentence. Now on the subject of vocational orientation: Minister! You have outlined in the Committee a number of ways in which this professional orientation could look like yours. Excursions are to be made to write essays on business visits and to address business events in history and language. I cannot imagine, however, that this can create real vocational orientation, especially in view of the fact that this must no longer cost. Teachers are not prepared for this task. I am convinced that professional qualifications lie within the control of basic powers of reading, calculating and writing. The lack of these skills is particularly complained by the economy. For example, the "Kurier" wrote on 28 May. February 1997 under the heading "What Hinchen doesn't learn": Many businesses have to teach apprentices to read, write and basic invoices. – That is exactly what I mean, Mrs Minister, when I say: Unfortunately, there is no longer much left from the world championship in elementary school or primary level until further training and vocational training. I would like to criticize this, Mrs Minister. By streamlining and defying the curriculum, you need to reflect on the essential basic skills that students must have upon entry into professional life, namely, reading, writing and computing! This is precisely what is necessary for professional entry and vocational orientation today. In conclusion, I would like to express my disappointment at the outcome of the Brucker Fashion School, which had taken place in spite of all efforts. Unfortunately, Mr Huber from Bruck has not been more committed to this. Above all, it was a request by the Social Democrats in the Styrian Landtag that was aimed at maintaining the existence of this field of training. I would like to ask you here, as already in committee, Mrs Minister, on behalf of the girls who are willing to learn, to create an alternative – perhaps in the context of another school. On the one hand, we want vocational orientation, on the other hand, vocational schools and special vocational training courses are closed under the dictatorship of empty cash registers. Minister! This is not the school policy and the practice-oriented education policy that we liberals present to us. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e12557	The next speaker is Mr Dr Höchtl. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e12578	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Today, in turn, we have a number of school laws to negotiate and decide on. These include institutions which are undoubtedly of particular importance for the future of the school. In my contribution to the debate, ladies and gentlemen from my group, I would like to comment on other areas, in particular the possibility of acquiring partial rights in the future for federal schools. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! What does that mean? – We have pursued the goal in school policy in recent years – we have systematically, step by step, discussed here in the National Council, implemented and implemented in schools too – that the individual school should be given the highest possible degree of independence and independence. Part-Justice is now a step that we are taking in the field of federal schools as a result of positive experience in other areas. What do I mean by the other areas? – We have – thank God! – a few years ago, the partial right to universities and federal museums decided. I would like to mention a number of successes in this regard: For the universities alone, the partial capacity has led to the acquisition of 1 200 million schilling in 1996 and the acquisition of 1 200 million schilling by the activities of the individual institutes for Austria's universities. I think that this is a great, considerable amount of money. This money could in turn be used for the purpose of improving universities. I think that was an important step. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Novotny.]] If we open this possibility now to the Federal Schools, that means that on our own responsibility, on our own behalf and on our own account, the individual school has the opportunity to offer courses, to take orders for third parties, to carry out non-refundable legal transactions, for example, computer courses for professional engineers et cetera. In other words, the creativity and resourcefulness of those responsible in the individual schools is almost no limit other than the one limit that the task of the school should not be affected. We have decided in really long discussions to open up this possibility to the federal schools. I do not believe that it will bring the amount of additional money that we have already achieved for universities in the past year – that would be nice – but I personally expect that in the first year, perhaps more than 100 million schilling can be added to the individual schools. If this is possible, if these can be won more than 100 million schillings, then I think it has been worth granting federal schools this opportunity. That is why we say a clear and clear yes to the new possibilities of partial jurisdiction for the federal schools. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Because, of course, in the course of the entire school system, we have also discussed the problems of schools and of which problems are increasingly unfortunately also being addressed as a target group, we have drawn up two motions for resolutions which I would like to present on behalf of Mr Antoni and myself. Firstly, it is a resolution on measures for a non-drug school. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We know that in Austria alone more than 200 young people die every year from drug use. Unfortunately, the number of drug addicts is increasing. Young people, yes, students are getting more and more into the scene of dealers. Artificial drugs are even produced and offered mainly for the target group of pupils and young people. Unfortunately, sometimes this problem is also impoverished. A few days ago, the Minister of Education proposed the establishment of a protection zone around 300 metres around schools, following the role of the New York City Protection Zones. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This is also an expression of the attitude of the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs that can be learned from examples from other countries in which something is effectively done. One should not hesitate to transfer such examples to Austria as well. We think that the whole drug problem needs to be seen in a wider context. [[Abg. Young: After that you will not even read this!]] We want to take action to prevent drug contact with children at all and to increase the awareness of drugs. That is why I would like to read this motion for a resolution. It says: [[Quoted print version removed]] We demand this because we, the government parties ÖVP and SPÖ, are convinced that we must not underestimate the drug problem and that we are obliged to do everything in politics to ensure that young people and especially children are really protected from these irresponsible dealers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Firminger: Tenfold!]] Now to the second motion for a resolution, the request concerning the freedom of violence. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It's today, 10th. December, the "Day of Human Rights". I think it is a good combination that we have also considered this measure in the field of school. Although we do not think that we can handle everything with the school and the teachers involved there, the school is often a reflection of society. We cannot compensate for all the shortcomings, but we still want to provide opportunities for how the school is raising freedom of violence and how it can force the idea of peaceability. That is why I would also like to make a motion for a resolution which has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If we bring in these two important issues with the other points that we are going to discuss and decide today, this is because we think we should try to put in place positive measures in schools everything we can. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! We from the government parties would like to invite all other political groups to accept these positive proposals – in the interests of children, in the interests of young people and in the interests of the future of our Austrian youth. We would like to agree with these proposals.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e12717	Mr Höchtl has tabled two motions for resolutions which have been submitted, supported in accordance with the rules of procedure and which are included in the negotiations. Mrs Schaffenrath is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e12742	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Before addressing the quite numerous aspects of these agenda items, I would like to comment on the way in which the last Committee on Education is taking place. I simply cannot believe that serious committee work should look like this. I had to leave the committee after about half an hour due to a conflict of dates. I had the opportunity to place my objections and supplementary requests there, but I could not be present at the debate and at the time of the decision-making. [[Abg. Sweam: I missed it!]] The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. I assume that the club secretary does not hold such information for himself and has, in the last episode, also passed it on to you. I admit that the liberals in connection with the legal personalities of religious denominations have made themselves particularly strong for the establishment of a subcommittee, for good reason. This would have heard much more detailed discussion, as shown by today's discussion. Mr. Committeeobmann Höchtl! You know, of course, that the long-term school-time law was originally intended for a subcommittee, and you also know that a discussion on the school-time law would not even have required this kind of time. In any case, it was neither desired by the Liberals nor intended to use the vast majority of the time of the Committee on Education for this Subcommittee. In this way, the situation turned out that at least seven of my views could be discussed in a very short time – one of them you have received in detail – if the term "discussion" is still appropriate. I feel that this form of committees – I ask you to apologise for expressing it so specifically – is a waste of time. I feel that this procedure, Mr Höchtl, is indeed an uncooperative and rude one, and I think it is a bad one. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: You do not have to go if you are not interested in making such a review here!]] Yes, I know, Mr Höchtl. You have problems with reviews in general – except for your values, you are highly personal. You will certainly also give me a reason for this, President-in-Office of the Committee, that the Liberals' request on which a report was made is not on the agenda today. But now to the individual negotiating bodies. The Liberals are, of course, in principle positive about the possibility of creating partial bodies under the SchoG. This is actually a demand which has already been made several times by the Liberals. We have also tabled proposals which have unfortunately been consistently rejected so far. I am right to say that at least in a particular area of public schools, at least in principle, self-responsible action constitutes a right step, for several reasons. We hope that an offer of courses and courses for adult education will in any case significantly widen the range of training. We also think that the cost-effective implementation of courses, of test and development tasks with the resources of a school can ultimately contribute – at least in the long term – to a discharge of the public budget. But much more important for us is the fact that this will at last enable teachers of a public school to implement economic and competitive action at schools. We hope to have a positive side effect and, in the final consequence, long-term effects and a retroactive effect on school and its internal organisation. Of course, we also hope that this step towards the rule of law will be a decisive step towards the development of genuinely autonomous schools, schools which can really decide independently in terms of personnel, not only in the financial field, but especially in the educational field. We are convinced that competitiveness can significantly improve education. Of course, the public sector would have to provide a very broad framework which would guarantee at least social fairness. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] At least some of the shortcomings and shortcomings identified in the assessment procedure have already been corrected in your Government template. I really think this step is a suitable attempt. We will therefore also agree to this part and to all the other laws concerning partial justice, although there could have been improvements in some areas. I am referring in particular to transparency and control. I do not think it is possible to explain why the School Community Committee should only be given the opportunity to be consulted by the headmaster in a very non-binding manner, in the context of a committee statement. If we really mean it seriously with school democracy and with a further development towards autonomous school, it would have required a clear legal regime at this point in my view. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] In fact, it is too vague and inexplicable for us to explain why the suitability of possible external managing directors for these legal units was derived only from a close relationship with the school. For us Liberals, the essential, yes, only criterion is at least a comprehensive management capacity of the applicant. In any event, a close relationship with the school cannot be decisive and insufficient. The Court of Auditors' control is, of course, to be welcomed in principle, although the question of the level of cost neutrality is raised. For if, in this respect, the Court of Auditors will have many units to review in the future, it should also be ensured that the Court of Auditors can have the necessary human and financial resources so that it can fulfil this control mandate to the extent necessary and de facto. Another point is important to me. I wonder why the report to the National Council on the impact of this law on this type of act, namely within the framework of a committee, is set out. I think that this form – I would like to say almost – is curios and I quote the following: On the basis of a statement by the Federal Minister for Education and Cultural Affairs, the Education Committee assumes that within three years of the entry into force of the Act, the National Council will be informed of the effects – and so on – of the impact. Once again, apart from the fact that there will be new elections in at the latest two years, and that it is by no means certain how the government will then put itself together, in other words, apart from a genuine political non-bindingness of such a finding, I wonder what led the coalition parties to such subjugation, to such a linguistic Kotau. I therefore ask you: Would it be so insidious and, in fact, would it be insidious from the point of view of the teaching department if the National Council asked the head of the board here quite specifically in the form of a motion for a resolution to submit a report to the National Council after a certain period of time? [[Acclaim at the Liberal Forum and Abg. Oils.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In the context of this SCHOG – also Mr Schöggl has already pointed out – there should in fact be other measures, in my opinion, that are very much announced in the fields of vocational orientation and preparation for professional maturity examination in the field of vocational school. I think both objectives are in terms of content and content in principle in order and welcome, but this raises again the question of how. We can only answer this question in the following way: That is exactly what we call reform populism, if, unfortunately, the volume and extent of the announcement are proportional to the subsequent implementation in practice and in the law. The President of the National School Council of Upper Austria has also made it quite clear, as part of the review, that concrete framework conditions and resources will be needed for the introduction of the subject "vocational orientation" so that a truly important subject – we would welcome him in principle – will not be exposed to any degree of popularity and will not, so to speak, be left to the individual commitment of individual and certainly also dedicated teachers. I would like to quote the Salzburg Council of State Schools, Mr Hofrat Schäffer, with regard to the preparation for professional ageing at vocational schools. He says: The wording "as possible" has the character of a recommendation and allows not only a flexible handling of the law, but also an unresponsive renunciation of the school regulations. I think it is necessary to explain here which party is to be assigned to the President of the Council of State Schools, but I think that he should have been listened to in this area at least. As long as there are no structural changes in the vocational school – the liberal proposals for this have been on the table for a very long time – there will also be a meaningful integration of the preparation for the professional maturity test – which would really be welcomed by our side – especially in connection with an absolutely necessary permeability simply and simply not possible. We would like to make a positive assessment of the request for the amendment of the professional ageing law here. We'll agree. We think it is quite appropriate for apprentices, even if they have not yet completed their examination of qualifications, to be able to take at least one part of the examination for professional maturity. But there are still some outstanding questions in this area, for which we wish to clarify ourselves as soon as possible. It is still unclear why the possibility of taking part-checks for professional maturity examinations and then recognition of them should be limited only to the facilities of those adult education establishments which are recipients of federal funding. Being a recipient is not a quality feature. This is at least a privilege and ultimately excludes or at least disadvantages private education providers in this area. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] It would also be important to find out, ladies and gentlemen, which of these institutions and especially when they are actually given this recognition. Because there are currently very, very different statements. I refer, for example, to a statement by the city council council president Scholz. Another point in this context: We have agreed to the introduction of the professional maturity test. This professional maturity test is a kind of externalist maturity test. That is why I do not understand the objection given hereto: Why do you stick to the 6 months delay in other externalist tests? Why do others who take the maturity test as an externalist or as an externalist need to have a 6 month break between the written maturity test and the oral maturity test despite identical items? – This is a contradiction, Mrs. Minister! We shall make a request again, because we believe that externalist examinations in all areas in which they exist and at least the same right exists in every form. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] In this debate, I would also have liked to point out the importance of conscious coordination and, above all, to address genuinely urgent, concrete measures in this area, so that we can finally move away from this platform of announcement and from this stage of announcement. I would have liked to discuss this today, but it must be postponed at a later stage. This time will be determined by the time when the grace will be granted to me, that our Liberal request may also be discussed within the framework of this plenary session.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e12834	The next speaker was Mr Antoni. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e12855	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Schöggl of the Freedom Party is concerned that the professional maturity test may not be carried out as much as a normal matura. He's worried about who to pay for it. Ladies and gentlemen! I can follow him when he asks who to pay for it. My group is also very busy with this. In our school system there is the general education higher school in which you can make the Matura – I say so – at a zero rate, and you can also repeat it. We have vocational schools where we can make the Matura a zero rate and repeat it. We have now introduced the professional maturity test, but it is subject to a fee. That is a mistake of beauty – I say it quite openly. That's what you're going to have to work on. As far as the quality of this test is concerned, as I think, there really is no need to worry too much. The examinations are carried out by educators at higher education schools. The Presidency shall be held by the competent national school inspector. I therefore do not think that there can be any wrong in this context. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! Matura in the second course of education – whether evening school, professional maturity examination, study qualification examination – or even study in the second course of education, this is in principle and absolutely positive by us Social Democrats. I would like to stress that. Citizens and fellow citizens who manage to complete such vocational training in the second way, in addition to the profession and often in addition to the family, deserve recognition and appreciation, but in no case suspects or presuppositions in any form! If one speaks of "Billa-Matura" or that only four items have to be completed, I wonder: Do you, for example, look at the fact that vocational training needs to be carried out either in advance or in parallel? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Great!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We are very pleased that the professional maturity test is incredibly strong. The 1 800 young people have applied for this examination alone in Vienna, but I do not know the registration numbers of the federal states, but I know that there is also a very strong demand there. The teaching of education is being broken down, and I would even say that there is a clear training offensive for workers in the sense of life-long learning. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make a few comments on the legislative proposals which are pending today for discussion and for the vote. The legislative amendments that we want to adopt today make further changes in the direction of modernising our education. Mrs Schaffenrath! These are not announcements, and we are not on any notification platform. It is necessary to say that again and again and to list everything that has already been set in motion. But it must also be accepted that every new step is a new beginning, starting a process, and that we cannot be done with it today. Ladies and gentlemen! If, in the sense of lifelong learning, we undertake the introduction of vocational orientation in the third and fourth classes of the primary school, in the sub-level of the AHS and the corresponding levels in the field of the General Special School and the upper secondary school, then the reactions to social change are. The demands in professional life and in the working world are increasing, the economy with its rapid developments is on the move, in the field of technology we are faced with challenges. If so far vocational orientation in schools only took place within the framework of non-binding exercises, this is not enough today. We need a binding teaching subject and a binding "vocational orientation" exercise, and we need a specific curriculum to do so, and that is exactly what is being settled and implemented by this law. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Vocational orientation or career creation is not a momentary decision, but a process accompanied by developments and experiences. The young person must experience and learn the skills with which he can prove himself professionally. I therefore believe that the innovation to be made today is an absolutely correct and, of course, necessary approach. In addition to the professional maturity examination already decided, § 46 is now extended to include measures in the field of vocational school, but of course also in the field of middle-school vocational training, which are prepared for the professional maturity test. The legislative text lists differentiation measures, promotion courses and free items that can be offered. Of course, these can only be offered because it does not ensure that the necessary notifications are made, and of course the last decision is in the field of the country, because vocational schools are in the competence of the country. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Grollisch.]] This is of course also possible in the field of school autonomy. A few comments on partial jurisdiction: After the introduction of the dedicated conduct, after the introduction of the partial right in the area of museums and universities, the schools of the federal government should now also be given the opportunity to conduct partial bodies. This is possible and useful in the field of autonomy. We Socialists attach great importance to the fact that the school’s education mandate, as defined in the specific curriculum, remains the task of the public authorities, but can also be offered various forms of events, such as special courses and courses, as well as social events, as well as examinations by the Higher Technical Schools. We also noted in the Committee that the school-partnership bodies have the right to receive the relevant information. And you also have the right to make recommendations. The Committee's report on the first experience of the partial right to be sent to the National Council has already been addressed in three years' time. I am still announcing that a hand-out on the part of the classroom is in preparation: Important rules relating to partial jurisdiction are laid down. We believe that it will also be possible in this way to successfully develop the partial capacity of the federal schools, which are addressed in the laws. A very brief comment on the motion for a resolution in the School Education Act on the further development of the School Book Action: This provision is closely linked to the decisions to amend the law on family allowances, which will be adopted in the House on Friday. . This resolution notes that the School Book Action in Austria is an internationally recognised action and, at the same time, is an important part of family and education policy. However, we want to further develop the proven school book action – and this is agreed with the classroom and with our coalition partner. We want to adapt these to educational needs, to take new forms of teaching and learning into account, and ultimately to extend the book culture to a media culture. The new means of teaching are primarily to be understood as sources of information. This will enable students to learn independently and to acquire their own knowledge and, above all, to use new technologies. New learning and work techniques are to be more integrated and, of course, to take account of autonomous and site-specific design possibilities. We Socialists are convinced that this act of law, which is a very broad one, is a positive step again, and we expect that in the future, although not yet today and perhaps not yet tomorrow, it will ensure quality and above all quality assurance in our schools. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e12920	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. 10 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e12938	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would have wished for this item on the agenda, as it was for the last, that it could take place at a more favourable time of day. But that is probably the same with the other materials. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: The reason for this was the urgent one!]] - Yes, it was the urgent one! They recognized it. Somewhere must be the reason for this. It was the urgent one. Ladies and gentlemen! The debate we are having here and today, of course, also reminds me of the debate we have held in the Committee on Education, which was admittedly lustless and short. I believe that this matter, particularly with regard to partial justice, but also with regard to Mr Höchtl's "Christmas proposals", would have required a more detailed debate. [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: You underestimate the problem!]] - No, I don't underestimate the problem! I shall start with the resolutions. We also agree with the drug proposal. I just mean, Mr Höchtl – and this has irritated me not on the request itself, but on the statements of the Federal Minister for Drugs concerning the drug miles before – that we sometimes take a little too short in our thinking if we believe that by trying to put the school under a cheese bell we would have had enough to ensure that the problems are kept away from school. I do not want to agree with the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs the good will and her view of the experience from other countries. I would just like to mention the following: I live in Vienna in a neighborhood where there are many schools. However, there is also a prostitution law which provides for a banal mile to be reached around the schools. In the second district, prostitution should be prohibited in general anyway. Due to the Bannmeile, which is drawn in accordance with the Vienna Prostitution Act, there should be even less prostitution. It could be said that this is a double safeguard. I am going to tell you, Mrs Federal Minister, but no secret if I tell you that exactly around school prostitution is the most happening. I do not blame you at all now, and I do not want to take the experience from you either. I also believe that if you go to school in the appropriate school – my child has also gone to this school – you can deal with the problems in some way if teachers can do so, and the children can learn from them. Nevertheless, this is not an absolutely pleasant situation. Finally, I would like to say something about this point: One will not be able to come to grips with a Bannmile in relation to prostitution or the drug question of the problem hidden behind it. Because what are drugs? – When we think of drugs, we think of the very classic drugs, some of them might even fall into the designer drugs, but not the drugs that are legalized, so to speak. We do not think of this, although we should also discuss it in this context. I think it would be our task to establish a corresponding relationship in this regard, and this is done by this request. That is why we can accept this request. However, I still feel a certain irritation regarding the attempt to get the school over everything, and from this point of view, of course, I also see this request. This is not an accusation, but I believe that we must deal with this problem. This concerns these as well as many other materials that have to do with the school. The next motion for a resolution on non-violent education shows the same problem. I am absolutely for that, but there is also an overload. But now I'm making this point: I think the matter makes sense, that is why we will agree, but – and with that I am already referring to the School Organisation Act – there is an overload in this as well as in other areas. I don't want to repeat myself too often now, so I'm just saying: With my heart, Mrs Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you know that we have also put forward appropriate proposals, we are in the process of partial justice as an attempt to increase the autonomy of the school. The reason why we do not agree with this draft is that the accompanying circumstances and also some relations between the school and the supervisory authority in connection with liability and responsibility for the part-rightful organisation are as little clarified as the accountability obligation. There is now a parental information right, but I believe that this should be further developed. There should also be an accountability with the school community from the side of the school or the participative organization. These questions remain open. Furthermore, the question I have raised in the committee and before in another plenary debate is open. What does that mean for the institutions of the school? . We have an old model of school management, which I do not believe to meet these challenges in any way. In addition to not only dealing with the financial or economic challenges, it is also possible to cope with the numerous challenges in relation to the school management, which have been carried out and increased for decades. That's not a small problem! But you still think that you can solve the problem by determining one that can be made responsible. This is also linked to the fact that the appointment of school boards – I dare to say – is largely dominated by party political interests. However, this is also due to the fact that there is little impetus on the part of the accompanying control authorities to provide the school boards with access to partial justice in the form of accompanying support. That is what we need, but it would require another school supervision, which, as it were, will increasingly lose the control element and instead give more support. All of this is not regulated. But I think that is a step in the right direction. With our hearts, we are part-righteous, but with the brain I say no to the partial right, because, according to the present drafts, crucial issues remain, which are important to us. For this is not only an attempt to ensure that schools can obtain money in this way. That alone as a motive I would not recognize as sufficient. I think it's about more and should also be more. I do not want to dispute the fundamental correctness of what you jointly present and decide here. However, there are still some shortcomings in our view. On vocational guidance, I would like to say the following: Although there is still a lot better to be regulated in this area, I think it is right from the principle that we should start with it. I think it is right – and I conclude with this – in the context of the creation of the possibility of professional maturity examination in the vocational school, which we have already said in the debate on professional maturity examinations, when modular examinations are offered, and I share the view of Mr Antoni that one of the most important issues relating to professional maturity is the obligation to pay. There will be a lot more to be done in this area. In principle, as is often the case with proposals by the Federal Minister and the Ministry, there are very important and correct impulses, not only in terms of professional maturity, but also in the other areas that we decide on today. In contrast to the law strongly criticised by us regarding the religious denominations that we discussed earlier, there are points here that we can quite agree to, but there are also points that we cannot agree with because of concern about the future of schools or certain institutions, because in certain sub-areas it is not clear where the whole should lead, or because shortcomings become visible as for example in the professional age test. This will be reflected in a differentiated vote in the vote on these drafts.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e12993	Mrs Brinek is now speaking. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e13014	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! In this late hour debate, one has the chance to read in tomorrow's newspapers, which seems to be worth reporting for tomorrow, because it was important today. Among these thematic areas there is once again the international witness to our school system. The facts are gratifying, they do not make sense. – I remind them: Austria's folk students are European masters in the natural sciences and have top rankings in mathematics. The results of the OECD study, it can be summarized, mean a success for Austrian schools and Austrian teachers. Let me go a little into detail: According to an intermediate title, Austria's folk students are European masters in the natural sciences. In the third and fourth classes of folk school, Austria has the fifth place compared with 15 other OECD countries in the natural sciences and mathematics. In the natural sciences, Austrian folk students are one of the best in Europe. The Austrian pupils are thus in front of those from the UK, the USA and other states. In the field of natural sciences, Austrian girls – and now it will be interesting – cut off a little worse than boys, but are still clearly above the OECD section. Thank God, however, there are also unrelativized positive interim headlines and opinions. The trend towards higher education qualifications is increasing and continuing. For Austrian educational expenditure, we need not only not generate, but we can even be very proud of it. Here we are far ahead of Germany, Japan and the USA. Only and alone Switzerland ranks right with Austria, is even ahead of a nose length. However, in the internal literature, study and debate landscape, I do not see that the Swiss school system justifys or proves this preference in the general distribution of federal funds. Let me now combine this result with what we are debating today. The different sections of the girls in the natural sciences in the folk school can be met with two measures, first with the help of the school organisation law: In this case, the already quoted binding exercise is based on professional orientation for the seventh and eighth classes of folk school, for the upper level of the AHS, for the primary school and the special school, and that is a good thing. I'll talk to you later. I come to the second measure: One might ask the question: Where do the brave girls from school later land on the labour market and in professional life? – We once thought naïve that co-ordination was the right way. In the meantime, we have to find that they have been pushed at their borders. With this mere integration in teaching without further action, we cannot really create justice. For boys take on more attention and more response resources from teachers, and they will also be granted more volume, more I-strength and more adventurerism by female teachers. Girls remain primarily responsible for the good climate and for emotional peace, and this is reflected in the professional election. We know these professions: Hairdresser, seller and other service professions at an undeveloped level. In my opinion, co-responsible are also the socialisation trends of today: The work with esoteric, barby, cosy and teapot fragrance brings with it very massive and subtle impairments. I think we can help this with today's school plans. Because vocational orientation is important. It will take place and can already be found on the basis of the existing teaching principle: Preparation for the professional world again. We do not need our own discipline, because the current way of seeing this as an integral part of the curriculum is exactly the right way. I can say this both in the direction of the FPÖ and in the direction of Mr Schaffenrath and Mr Öllinger: This is the way that teachers want, and you undermine the level of effort of teachers massively when you say that this will not succeed if not enough more funds are available for preparation and for appropriate materials. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schaffenrath.]] They apparently start from a class where the teacher has prepared one hour and then worked for 20 years thereafter. You do wrong to the teacher! That's not how it's done today! Lively teaching under these new challenges needs to be prepared again and again! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schaffenrath.]] In addition, this is the right way to go, as vocational orientation is different according to the law, since it refers to the primary school, the special school and the AHS. And I am very glad that the feedback from the AHS teachers is already very positive. – So your proposals are not the right way! Mrs Schaffenrath! A further reference to the partial jurisdiction: I think that the responsibilities structure is clearly regulated and that a school today without cooperation with the SGA does not create a good climate at all and can therefore actually mutilate partial ambitions. The manager you have addressed should have something to do with school and have not necessarily advised chicken farmers before. If you still think that he is the right one, he can prove himself in a hearing. Mr. Ollinger! There is also no right to partial justice. You do not need to fear that now all vices and Sodom and Gomorrah or anything else will return to school. I'll get you together. It's not about winning more speed and according to the motto: "Quick! Faster!" This is a matter for the Commission. Mrs Schaffenrath! Let's think about Qualtinger and the saying of "Mr. Karl": "I don't know where I'm going, but for that I'm faster there." Excuse me! [[Call: This is "the wool with its mashin'"]] It is not the Lord Karl, but "the wool with his maschin'", with which he was traveling faster. I think we are well on the road with the right minister, with the right timetable, with the right team and with the right committee results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e13067	The next speaker is Mr Brauneder. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e13088	Mr President. High house! Mrs. Federal Minister! In a student discussion not too long ago – and I would like to point out in this context that I am also a Member of Parliament for the city of Baden – a number of topics have been discussed. One of the subjects that the students were interested in was alcohol. During the entire discussion on this subject beyond the discussions on the Promille border, the students, mainly class speakers of the upper-level classes, agreed on one point: The social aggressment of excessive alcohol consumption would be urgently needed, through a process of education. Several measures, such as control and the like, have been considered – I do not want to go into this at present – but it has been a particular concern for the students that the process of education has led to a social aggressment of excessive alcohol consumption. The most important or next to the parents' home is one of the most important institutions in this educational process. Mrs. Federal Minister! You have recognized that this is the case in another problem, namely drugs and drug miles. If I have understood Mr Höchtl correctly, he also sees the drug problem as he is talking about the drug-free school. I do not know, however, whether under drug he has subsumed excessive alcohol consumption. If he doesn't, I have to say, If you're talking about drug-free school, you also have to add the tag "alcohol-free school" – although that sounds a bit funny, but "dry-free school" sounds a bit funny too. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In short: There will be an educational process in this regard. Fortunately, it is not only because of a most tragic accident in the literal sense, but also because of a motion for a resolution by all the parties present here in the House, has already come to this realization. ==References== In the case of the various shifts of competence which have now taken place in the various departments, it may not play a major role in the fact that your place, Mrs Bundesminister, was not addressed at the time. – I quote this motion for a resolution: "The Federal Minister for the Environment, Youth and the Family, in cooperation with the Federal Minister for Health, Sport and Consumer Protection, is asked – all these are nostalgic tones, since these ministries are no longer available in this form – "to ensure, through appropriate measures, that a federal information campaign against youth alcoholism is carried out and appropriate accompanying measures are initiated specifically for juvenile addictions." In order to carry out such an information campaign, the school is primarily important to me. It is, therefore, a very special concern for me to take note of the following: In the school field, it may be much more than before, whether by applying any teaching principle or in connection with certain objects, an anti-alcohol education is taking place! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! If the drug-free zone or the drug-bann mile is spoken of around the school, that is not only a little in the geographical sense, as I mean. I don't want to sound ironic right now, but you're out of the drug-free zone with the school bus faster than that on foot, and you might be where you get the drugs. And more: In the evening you go to the dance palace – I am now thinking of my hometown – and there, you know, you are dealing. That's what the mayor knows, the Gendarmerie, and that's what other people know who are affected by it. However, there is little to be done, and students in school are not told what they should actually be told. This drug-bannmile, Mrs. Federal Minister, should be associated with one - we might call it - anti-alcohol-bannmile and at least explain the whole federal area to this Bannmeile. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] At any rate, I would like to stress that I also see it as these students: The problem of alcohol and drugs must also be addressed by means of education. To the vocational orientation: In spite of my experience in higher education, I still assumed from the illusion that the entire school education is somehow for orientation towards a profession, whether directly or indirectly. If I hear that we are still introducing an object of our own now, I must say: This may be useful, but I would like to say that I do not want to ignore the overall view of the entire school, the view that all items are used in any way in vocational orientation. Therefore, it is a great concern for me to use much more modern learning techniques in all areas, in order to impart knowledge towards potential professions, in two ways – although this is a keyword, I say it anyway – to learn, but also to learn facts. Not only should you learn: How can I learn how long the Thirty Years' War lasted?, but one should also learn that the Thirty Years' War lasted for 30 years. On the modern forms of teaching: I wonder if you should not force a little more old, proven forms: the languagely good teaching. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I think it terrifying that today hardly anyone who gives a talk believes that they can come out without overhead films. I almost already have a little feeling of putting the film down and turning the light up – or vice versa – to talk a little bit, to forget the time word and to say "da" – "and so" – "and there", that's already to say the modern method: Look at it, and maybe pick it up. That's why I feel a horror when someone comes with films. I agree, I also like to teach with films, but try to say whole sentences. What seems to me to get away from it is not only the language, the understanding, the expression of oneself and the understanding of others, but also the understanding by reading. I feel more and more that students – for my area I have to say: Students – the meaning of the words gradually gets away from them that the feeling of whole sentences is missing and that they get the feeling of adding one or two secondary sentences to one main sentence. In my view, this is a manko which is much more important to fix and which must be addressed by means other than the introduction of school principles and learning principles or even the introduction of new subjects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e13178	Mrs. Gehrer has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e13200	Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, a few comments on some of the contributions to the debate. I'm very clear, and I'm going to say: Our schools are non-alcoholic. Except in the chemical room for experiments there is nowhere alcohol! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Madl: Go to a school once! Go to an AHS once!]] Second finding: I do not think that the entire education at schools should be based only on the profession. Instead, I believe that we must have in mind a general form of personality, that we should convey values and also pay attention to the physical discipline of young people. That is why I would like to say the following: The proposed legislation is a clear improvement compared to a teaching principle. 32 hours of professional orientation per year to be planned, kept and already identified at the beginning of the school year. On the whole area of the motions for resolutions which have been put forward, I should like to say the following: Of course, the school must take on an important role in the fight against violence and in the fight against addiction. That is why we have also started the "make children strong": too strong for addiction, too strong for drugs, too strong for alcohol. Violence too is a serious problem. On my proposal on the drug-free zone, I would like to say the following: Of course, I know that we can only meet drugs in a wide variety of ways. However, I have repeatedly heard complaints from teachers that there are so few means of intervention around the school – when something is discovered or when someone is seen suspected of distributing or selling drugs. As a society, I think we should state quite clearly that: We must also be alert around our schools, and there must be the opportunity to search and take someone who is suspected. I therefore believe that the drug-free zone is another step. It's not all, and it won't solve the problem, but it's another step we're signaling: We take responsibility for our children and young people very seriously! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] In the field of partial justice, I would like to say: That's an offer, a chance, a possibility. There will be hand-outs, there will be discussions on this, and contrary to other opinions, we do not have an obsolete management system. Rather, we have very offensive directors who are very happy to accept this challenge. There are new directorial training courses, and there are training courses for district school inspectors that are being trained to meet these new challenges. Ladies and gentlemen! I mean, the laws that we decide today are another step towards more independence and more independence in schools. As the OECD study has been mentioned by my previous speakers, I can say: I'm happy about that. You may also be able to enjoy something positive. For me, this is no reason for satisfaction, and I do not think it is a reason to lean back and do nothing more. But for me it is a reason to say thank you today: thank those who participate in these positive changes. I am very grateful to the education politicians from all the ranks who work constructively for the school, and I also very much thank the teachers at our schools who are open and ready for new developments and who are so committed to our youth working!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e13255	The next speaker is Mr Rada. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e13277	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! With the new novel to be decided today on the School Organisation Act, perhaps in contrast to the Schöggl Member, I very much welcome the introduction of the binding "vocational orientation" exercise, which is because our professional world and our traditional professional image have changed so much that our young people can only survive in the world of tomorrow if they are prepared accordingly. That is not to say that nothing has happened so far. In particular, I would like to mention the polytechnic schools which have done and are still doing great things, particularly in the field of vocational orientation and vocational preparation. Only this orientation is too late. From investigations we know that students have already made their choice if they have arrived in the polytechnic course or better in the polytechnic school. Full vocational training must therefore start in good time. For this, the seventh and eighth school level seems to me to be a much more appropriate one. I particularly welcome the introduction of this binding exercise in the AHS sub-level, even though the Association of Professors of Austria believes that this is not necessary. Perhaps these ladies and gentlemen have overlooked professors that there are at least over 30 percent of the AHS under-level students entering the vocational education system. It would have been very timely for them to be able to make their professional choice a little earlier. I also agree with the form chosen: that no one's own object will be created which would have automatically increased the number of hours per week of students. However, a binding exercise, even if 32 hours of a week are planned, may be a source of danger if it goes almost as well as the teaching principle that, although a class teacher team is responsible for the work, there may be no sense of responsibility. I do not want to put this to the teachers, but I see a source of danger there. In this respect, accompanying measures should be laid down. To this end, I would like to imagine that binding additions to the curriculum in individual subjects are being drawn up on how this vocational orientation should take place. One could determine a kind of coordinator of the teacher team who coordinates this binding exercise, because we cannot attach all of this to the teachers. One last point, Mrs Federal Minister, seems to me to be the most important: We must make sure that our teachers have the appropriate training. At the present stage, our AHS teachers and primary school teachers certainly do not have the training to carry out vocational orientation to the necessary and necessary extent. Only excursions and only training courses to reach the 32 hours of the week seem to me a little poor. I therefore expect that we will not abandon the teachers, but we will create an extensive training platform in good time and will provide them with appropriate tools for the first time.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e13325	The next speaker is Mrs Madl. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e13346	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am not surprised when I hear the debate by the Federal Minister. Mrs. Federal Minister! We are today in 1997, but according to your opinion you could think you were talking as if it were 1897. If you say today, Mrs Bundesminister, that our schools are alcohol-free, then go through the schools with closed eyes and ears. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I believe that if your visit is announced, of course everything will be put together and the school will be all right. But go in before the break, go in unannounced once, talk to students who almost no longer bring out a word, so alcoholic they are. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Only the liberals!]] [[Call to the ÖVP: Where is that?]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This is happening in Austrian schools, of course! To your words, Mrs. Federal Minister – "we must strengthen our children", "we must make our children dry free" – I can only say to you: Why are our schools not dry-free? [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: Say where!]] [[Abg. Swimmling: When was the last time you were in a school?]] Products not classified within Is it this year, Mrs Bundesminister, who has agreed to raise the limit of heroin with dealers from 0.5 grams to 5 grams? Have you not agreed to this bill in the Council of Ministers? [[Call the ÖVP: It wasn't like that!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: But yes!]] Oh, no? – As far as I know, Minister of State, there is a principle of unanimity in the Council of Ministers. This intention to talk about a drug-free zone and higher penalties now after you have agreed four months before a law that allows a dealer to bring 200 non-addictants to the needle within three days, and then go there and allow a drug-free protection zone in front of schools, that is really absolute top! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. That's what you're talking about!]] It is immense with what dual nature our population is presumptuous about. It's a terrible thing! The next... [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: Why don't you show us that? Where's this school?]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] If Mrs Bundesminister asks for a drug-free zone, there must be a lot of schools in Austria to sell drugs, or not. – If your Federal Minister asks, ask her where this school is. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: Where is this school?]] Ask Mrs Minister, Mrs Colleague: She'll know otherwise she wouldn't have asked! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: What school is that?]] [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: Where is this school?]] Ask her! [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: Get out with the truth!]] [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: No answer!]] Next: I have also read this article, Mrs. Brinek, but I am not – like this article and this journalist – stuck in the public schools, but also have other... [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: The OECD wrote this!]] [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: I don't know!]] No, I have read other articles, namely those that say that in the AHS there is a relatively high drop-out in terms of school dropouts. [[Subsequent calls to the ÖVP.]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] You didn't talk about that. Our education system cannot therefore be a European master if it remains in children's shoes in the public schools, Mrs Brinek! You have to keep thinking, too. In the AHS schools there is a high drop-out, a high proportion of school dropouts. [[Abg. Swimmlein: Mr President! Is there the protection of listeners from the speaker?]] And let's look at the universities, Mrs. Colleague! There, Austria is a European champion of drop-offs. At the universities, Mrs Colleague! That's what it looks like. When I go on, I notice: Our education system is so "good" and our gift promotion works so well that we have not produced a Nobel Prize winner for 50 years. But you don't care! They remain in their infancy, just to avitate a positive educational policy here. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: Tell me where this school is! I want to know!]] That's ridiculous, very ridiculous! I would have trusted you more on this issue. Let us remain with drugs, namely Mr Höchtl's request. [[Abg. You may be! We're not!]] You can't mess me up, I'm too professional. I have 25 minutes overtime. [[Call to the ÖVP: Where is this school?]] Ask Mrs Bundesminister, perhaps she will tell you! Mr Höchtl, in his motion for a resolution, called for the students to be informed about drugs. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: For you, the Enlightenment would be good!]] It would be better for the ÖVP to make a better educational and, above all, family policy so that the children find their care in the family and do not have to take drugs in order to overthink their loneliness. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: Read the application! Read it first, then talk!]] They require teacher education. That's a laugh. A year and a half ago, you agreed to a law that no longer requires teachers to report this on suspicion of taking drugs in children. You have voted accordingly, and now you want a teacher training in this regard. That's ridiculous! Word caves! Mrs. Minister tells her word, Mr Höchtl tells her and writes her in requests. That's ridiculous! Inclusion of the school doctors: also ridiculous! There's no news today. If a school doctor finds that drugs may have been taken, he is not obliged to report, not even to the teacher, nor to any authority, anyone. Because the student must not be discriminated against. So it's your drug policy in schools. Empty word caves! I do not want to address these legislative proposals at all, because my colleagues have already done so enough. But Mrs Bundesminister's statement has moved me to finally put an end to these untruths which are being spread here in the house and beyond in the public. Look in the mirror!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e13704	The next speaker is Mr Stampler. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e13725	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning, I would like to stress, in order to bring a little rest here to the plenary room again, that I am glad that we are writing 1997 that I am glad that there are no alcoholic students in our school and that I am glad that I have never seen a student come from the class who confronted me and could not speak. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] In this sense, I would like to come back to the report by which the tomorrow edition of the "Kurier" shows us that Austria's schools are being issued a preferential certificate. If I may quote from it: Congratulations, we're favourite students. The OECD compared the education system of 22 states and gave Austria the best score. Hardly a country can cost youth education and training as much as Austria, where the money seems well established. – End of quote. If we decide today to make changes to the school system, I believe that this will offer new opportunities to continue the course that has been set up. So Austria's students are top-ranking, and I think that can be rightly claimed. I would also like to point out that only a few weeks ago we decided on the budget and that the teaching budget was one of the few who had an appreciation, namely by 2.3 billion schilling, of which 636 million shillings are used for staffing and 1.6 million for work. If today there is talk of the partial right: I am proud of it and think that this will provide our schools with a new future and open new prospects. Even teachers, I was always eager to open the compulsory school to the general public. At my school the music school had free entry in the afternoon, also courses for adult education and youth events could be conducted. I am committed to opening up the school of the population. School costs money, and the population has a right to benefit from the school. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In my area, the Bundesgymnasium Rein belongs. A few days ago, when I was able to ask the director how he stands for partial justice, he told me that he welcomed her. In particular, the secondary school needs new opportunities and needs different things that can be acquired due to the planned partial right. The Gymnasium of the Pen Rein will rent the gym to clubs. With the money taken in this way, gymnastics and sports equipment can be purchased. I would like to point out another point here. The Pure Precaution Study, carried out at this gymnasium in continuation of the action Healthy Volksschule, has so far been conducted by an association. Now, within the framework of partial jurisdiction, the school will have the opportunity to benefit from it and to use the financial resources to buy ergonomically correct furniture. I therefore believe that the move towards partial justice has been a good step in the future. A brief comment on the amendment of the School Education Act: In the current version, the School Education Act does not take into account the new Polytechnic School, whose graduates are to receive improved conditions of entry into vocational school due to basic education. I have taken the path from the polytechnic course to the polytechnic school and I can say that the polytechnic is today an institution providing modern vocational preparation, whether in the type of operational visits or also in the type of schnupper teachings. At this point I would like to express my thanks to the economy, as companies always open the doors to schools in order to give these people the opportunity to spend the sniper's teaching in their business. Many small stones produce a mosaic. Let us also see the changes that we are deciding today as such parts that we need so that education policy can continue in this sense and on this progress.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e13793	The next speaker is Mrs Fuchs. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e13815	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! This year, the National Council welcomed the adoption of a federal law on professional maturity examination. Persons with a degree exam or successfully completing a minimum of three years of secondary school may thereby acquire qualifications which are also linked to the mature examination of a higher school, i.e. to ensure access to universities or vocational colleges. Adult education has already responded with various courses. However, what is not yet available to interested persons is concrete support in the field of education. Therefore, it is urgently necessary to promote the field of work of vocational schools as well as of secondary vocational schools. Only the provision of concrete educational opportunities for the preparation for this examination during vocational training can ensure the desired anchoring of the professional maturity examination in the Austrian school system. This is an important and responsible support for the students still in education. There is therefore a need for legal provisions which will also allow the schools to make available a corresponding offer. However, these school offers should not take place in the form of an extension of the lessons – as has already been said several times today – but by the use of existing resources at the respective locations. From the point of view of cost neutrality, a shift should be sought, which is geared towards the different possibilities and needs of schools. Interested students could therefore work towards professional maturity through the use of preparatory modules and accounting models as well as other promotion measures. This preparation is also intended to ensure connectivity and to allow for the correction or extension of individual education decisions. This is particularly important to us Social Democrats and is in line with our educational objectives. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This concrete preparation offer for professional maturity test facilitates many young people's decision to continue and improve their education path. As a Social Democratic, I welcome any opportunity that can lead to better education and training for young people. I am opposed to Mr Schöggl, at whose address I would like to address now, as he has spoken in this context of an occult matura. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: It shouldn't be!]] I think that only the fact that we need this word in this context is really a presumption to all those who go this second course of education and take the many outrages to achieve it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] For my part, I must say that I admire and appreciate everyone who is able to achieve a higher qualification and a higher degree in a second course of education. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] My group will be happy to agree to this bill because we have come a step closer to the objective of ensuring vocational training in a proper manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e13869	The next speaker is Mrs Krammer. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e13891	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We cannot talk about this without a detour on Mrs Madl. I can't do that. They have gone up to statements that are hair-throwing! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Yes, it is!]] You've really said that at the schools a drunken child has to face. Thank you, I say on behalf of the Austrian teachers, thank you! You have issued a wonderful witness: The alcohol bodies spherical around the schools. [[Abg. Madl: (the gest of a howling signifies) Buh! Buh!]] Don't laugh! I will tell everyone that the FPÖ says that teachers are promoting alcoholism at schools. Thank you, that's wonderful! For the next elections I will remember that! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] The honourable Member then said everything: A dealer has four days to get people addicted. . Because of this statement, we must ask ourselves how much the honourable Member has consumed before going to the speaker's desk! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Dear colleague! You probably talked about the drug law. However, through the Addiction Act, the penalties for the dealers were dramatically increased! [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] You must know this, because you were in the Health Committee and in my suffering of its chairman at the time! [[in the direction of the Abg. Dr. Pumberger]] [[Cheerfulness and applause with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Mr President. I can also address you as one of my previous speakers: I feel with you about the language. You're absolutely right! I also believe that a little improvement could be made in the ways of dealing with schools. In fact, however, I wanted to talk about partial justice. Deputies Höchtl has said to the universities... [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] Mr Stadler! Don't bother! If you were in class with me, I'd take yours a little differently now! Come to me! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] With me there is breeding and order, and you would learn that too! [[Cheerfulness and applause with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I would now like to say something about partial justice. Listen to me! Where's Höchtl? He's not here at all! Mr Höchtl is expecting... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] Not with me! That's what you're gonna do, believe me, that's me. Mr Höchtl believes in 100 million for schools. - All right, let's go! And everyone praises the partial right and the sponsorship. However, allow me to say very little and very little about this partial right: We must not shut down new developments, but we must have the ability to see the benefits and disadvantages of certain solutions in all of them! [[Abg. May. Stadler: Now speaks the strict Christa!]] The advantage is, of course, that the school will be authorized to act on its own and to act independently in the future. But, Mr Höchtl, you expect 100 million for the schools. [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: For everyone!]] Okay, 100 million for everyone! But do you know the danger to the whole thing? – I hope it won’t happen, but you have to see that too: I fear that there may be more rich and poorer schools. [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: That's not true!]] Yes! A school in an agglomeration centre will do much easier to rent its premises and offer courses because there is a corresponding catchment area. However, with regard to a school in the rural sector – for example, my school with 400 students – I am very concerned that it will be possible to make as much money as a school with a larger catchment area. One must be so honest and say that there is also this danger! The same applies to sponsoring. It is therefore to be welcomed that we in the Committee have talked about the need to report on the effectiveness of this partial right after a certain period of time. I don't think that's bad. Mr Oellinger, however, criticised the fact that there are elections between them and that the next Minister or the Minister must not feel bound to them. [[Call the Greens.]] Whoever said that, it's a pleasure. I say: Parliament has the opportunity to request a report. I hope that, after the next election, the House will wish for a report on the ability of the part-law, and I hope that my concerns do not come true. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e14053	Mr Grollitsch is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Rest of the time of your club: 13 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e14075	Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The previous speaker at least could not convince me that the school was at least alcohol-free with regard to the directorates and the teachers' rooms! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That would be a gentle explanation of your appearance. Mr Höchtl, I would like to suggest that Mrs Krammer perhaps invite him to his 'violence-free school' action as a speaker. In view of the threats you have raised to Mr Stadler, I can imagine that you are very predestined, dear lady, to talk about nonviolent school within the framework of this action. [[Ironic cheerfulness and intermediate call of the Abg. Dr. Krammer.]] On the subject of partial justice, which has been greatly praised here: Mrs. Federal Minister! I think we should leave the church in the village. Participation is not now applied to schools because the universities have applied a billion schillings, as Mr Höchtl proudly presented today. If he were to look at the figures relating to the own resources of Asian or American universities, he would realize that this half-promille, which the universities have so far applied, is only a very weak approach. But be it! It is a right step in the right direction. But it was certainly not a democratic energy attack on the part of the government parties, but the need to have an instrument of lack of administration that brought us this partial right. It is, as has been said, also an old liberal demand, and we are on this project. Mrs. Federal Minister! However, the introduction of partial jurisdiction also requires a number of additional actions: Part-righteousness as a prerequisite for school autonomy must also mean that school supervision becomes narrower and is willing to deliver agendas. However, if I look at the division between the national school and district school authorities, where a red and a black one and, as in the meantime in Styria, another one of every group must be included, then I do not feel that this is being slimmed down! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That's how it is, my dear colleagues! In the future, the directors will also have to be selected for different school management criteria than before. The party book alone must no longer be enough. – I know you agree that this is the case. But there is again a very current case in the Styria: For two years, a job cannot be re-occupied because the corresponding colleague did not allow himself to "color" in time to have the appropriate color for this post! Mr Höchtl! You have submitted an application to the drug-free school, which makes sense, and you have submitted an application to the nonviolent school, which makes sense as well. I ask you: Why did you not invite us to take part in the deliberations on these requests? Be sure that we had a lot to do with this! There is an action'sport instead of drug', and you will be able to imagine that, as a sports speaker in my group, I would have included this element in your project in particular. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] So the whole thing has remained a fragment of declarations of intent. Do you, in fact, believe that you can cope with the drug problem with lectures and teacher training? Some of these aspects have already been discussed. Mrs. Federal Minister! I was really happy to hear from your mouth that you carried the action "make children strong" in schools. Who You can imagine yourself, I also see the physical part of the action "make children strong". Mr Grabner, who smiles at me, says to me that the sector of school sports, as we repeat repeatedly, is in annoyance. Mrs. Federal Minister! I spent the weekend at the Styrian School Sports Conference in Graz, where I have heard from my mouth very active, committed sports instructors, who also exist, in connection with the action "per school sport" – and you will receive it in writing – that there has never been less school sports and never worse school sportsmen than at present and that there have never been as motivated sports teachers in schools as at present. I promise you that you will receive this statement from the head of the "per school sport" action in writing, so that I do not always live here as an isolated noergler in these matters! A government template to be decided today also concerns school sports problems. We have already indicated in the Committee that we will vote in favour of this proposal, not so much because we are so convinced of the partiality in the field of school sport, because we now know that this sale of the federal institution of schools has led to a sharp decline in sports activities and clubs and this is therefore an attack on public health. We agree only because the Federal institutions for the education of the body should also be given this opportunity in the context of the facilitation of the partial right. In conclusion, I would like you to hear about the subject of partial justice not only from the mouth of the "oppositionsnörgler", a few quotes from the public service union to this school organisation change to be decided today: Preparation modules and support measures for trainees and graduates cause human and administrative consequences, which are associated with additional costs which are not covered by the law. Or: There are too many administrative obstacles to partial justice. They require increased bureaucracy and management in the field of supervision. – You have heard exactly the same sentence from my mouth before! - Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e14156	Mr Schwamlein, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e14174	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that the principle applies to all of us here: Honor who deserves honor. Mrs Madl! I would like to thank you, because you have succeeded in making the debate, which has been rather unlovingly debated until your speech, absolutely entertaining! I'm just saying, You have not enriched the debate with a lot of valuable knowledge, but at least you have brought in a great variety. On the relevant points: Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Federal Minister! In advance, I would like to say: I can live quite well with both motions for resolutions. But I have some problems with the wording of the Preamble. Mr President, Mr Brauneder! You have said that you are very likely to have included alcohol in the area of drugs. I am absolutely your opinion! If, however, I now require the implementation of the Preamble of the motion for a resolution, I would like to look with you at how the houses are locked within 300 metres. I don't think that's gonna happen in reality. However, I would like to clarify something: Mrs Madl! Even if there is a guest house within 300 metres of the school, this does not mean that only more drunken students go around the schools. I am an active teacher, and I can tell you that my disciples are not with God a vile one. But there are no such excesses in relation to alcohol as you have described them in school! I should like to make this clear once and for all, Mrs Colleague. Mrs Madl! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] If we are on this issue in particular, I would like to tell you that you should not be so modest: I assume that you are one of the few trainees who have been awarded the diploma to be Austria's most honest and conscientious Trafikant, who has never sold a pack of cigarettes to a student less than 16 years old, because the health of the student was more important to her than sales. Why didn't you emphasize that? You were certainly such a good person! So we're not just talking about alcohol, we're also talking about cigarettes. I don't want to know what role you played in this! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Madl: Why me?]] Ladies and gentlemen! I have followed today's speeches concerning classical political statements more precisely and can say that today has been taken in about 20 to 25 times the "right step in the right direction". Think about it once! Can you put the wrong step in the right direction or step in the wrong direction? But something's clear to me: Mrs Madl has proved that the wrong step can be taken in the wrong direction! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Madl.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I was mistakenly pleased by the previous speaker, Mr Grollitsch, when he said that he did not understand why we did not invite the FPÖ to participate in the application for freedom of violence. Mr Grollisch! If you believe that you are the ideal partner for nonviolence, then ask this once a biterl! Mrs. Minister! I could live well with the various points of this motion for a resolution, but we must discuss the Preamble. What does freedom of violence mean? What should I think about in this regard? Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me because the current situation also implies pointing to a single point. We are currently discussing a revision of the arms law, which I think is good and right, but whether we can solve the problem alone with the arms law or with this resolution, we should consider ourselves very well! We should therefore consider this very well, because it is not possible to reduce violence in the population by means of a law. Rather, it is urgently necessary to recognize this willingness to violence as a social problem and to address it at this point. And since I can say that the motion for a resolution is aimed at this, I can very well support it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! There are some government proposals for decision-making, which, as I believe, include very good approaches. I think you believe that it is very good and right for a teacher to express praise to colleagues. However, I would like to make a small point: All those pupils who have been trained in the industrial and technical sectors in the polytechnic schools are to be classified in the higher performance group. . I have experienced in this context, Mrs Minister, that despite the most intensive efforts the communication between the vocational school and the polytechnics does not work very well and that teachers in the polytechnics do not necessarily have the highest professional qualifications. We should also work on this, because the better the teachers are there, the better the students are in the future too! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that we are doing a good job with all these proposals. However, I invite you to continue to pursue with me the idea that all those intentions that we implement by law do not yet change a society in the direction we want it to be.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e14245	Mr Magistrate has also been reported to speak. Posch. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e14266	Mr President. Minister! The progress made by the present SCHOG-Novelle can be read at three points. The first of these points is the introduction of non-binding training professional orientation in the third and fourth classes of the primary school and the AHS. This is a very, very important measure. Vocational orientation is to be taught in an interdisciplinary way, including project education and excursions. This is important in an age in which students often do not know what to do. The second important point is that, according to § 46, professional students can be better prepared for professional maturity examination. The vocational schools must, where possible, offer differentiation measures in teaching and outdoors. "If possible" means cost neutrality: Although this will set limits on the offer, this is nevertheless positive, as the professional maturity test will make the training system more transparent and opens up access to academies, colleges, colleges and universities for apprentices and graduates. The third point is the partial right of schools: Schools are thus allowed to act on their own and on their own responsibility in a number of areas, such as the conclusion of non-remuneration legal transactions, the provision and conduct of courses which are not part of the public offer of schools, the holding of information festivals and cultural events, the preparation of opinions, works, test reports and so on. All of these are positive measures. The most positive thing about this, however, is that the federal government will save about 300 million schillings. I would almost like to call that a charity. This is where the central power has been directed a little, as you say. – So much to this SCHOG novelle. Finally, I have a concern you already know. The spelling reform will take you even longer than you love, as the initiatives of the authors and artists show. It is known that once it is institutionalized, nonsense is very numerous. After there are no attempts at suffocating the spelling reform, I am trying to try to think about whether we could not at least go in conformity with it, at least eliminate the "ß" and generally replace it with a double. This should be possible by means of the regulation. This is a small measure, but it could be much simplified and much easier. Maybe you can. You're giving yourself a little push on this! – Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e14307	Mrs Gehrer has now been reported to speak. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e14328	Mr President. High house! Two findings are still important to me. First: Under the School Organisation Act and according to the school regulations, there must be no alcohol in our schools. In view of what Mrs Madl has described here, she has the immediate obligation to communicate with school supervisors so that appropriate measures can be taken. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Secondly, Mrs Madl has accused me of having decided on the draft legislation on drugs with limits. – I am very clear and clear: In the Council of Ministers, the draft legislation on drugs was passed without limit values. The limit values were set in the Main Committee on a proposal from the Minister of Social Affairs and the Minister of Justice in a limit-rate regulation. So I'm asking you to get better information next time.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00102_d7e14372	No one has been reported in the word anymore. That concludes the debate. There is no final word from the rapporteur. We are entering the voting procedure, and I would ask you to take the place to that end. We shall come to the vote which I shall have to take separately from each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 934 of the Supplements. Mr Madl and Mr Comrades have made a request for a separate vote. I shall therefore first vote on the parts affected by the request for separate vote and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. The present draft concerning a federal law amending the School Organisation Act may, in accordance with Art. 14 para. 10 Federal Constitutional Act will be passed only in the presence of at least half of the members and by a majority of two-thirds of the votes cast. I therefore begin by stating the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. We shall now proceed to the vote on paragraphs 30, 31, 32 and 34, as amended by the Government's proposal, and we shall ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to give their approval for the same sign. – This is accepted by the majority. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt in the version of the Government template. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to give their consent to this sign. – This is largely accepted. I expressly define once again the two-thirds majority required for constitutional purposes. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to give the draft law the same sign at third reading. – This is generally so accepted. In turn, I expressly define the two-thirds majority required for constitutional purposes. We shall also vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1015 of the Supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to vote in favour of this draft law to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to give their approval to the draft law at third reading, too, to give an appropriate sign. – This is the case unanimously. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1017 of the supplements. Since some of the provisions of the draft concerning a federal law amending the School Education Act are in accordance with the nature. 14 para. 10 Federal Constitutional Law can only be passed in the presence of at least half of the members, I note it. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who want to give their consent to the draft law to give a corresponding sign. – This is done by the majority. Accepted. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who would like to give the draft law their assent at third reading to give a sign on this point. – This is also a majority and is therefore accepted. In turn, I expressly define the two-thirds majority required for constitutional purposes. We shall also vote on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report 1017 of the Supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to vote in favour of this resolution to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. (E 96.) We shall also proceed to the vote on the draft law and its title and receipt in 936 of the supplements. In the event of approval, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to give the draft law the same sign at third reading. – This is also done by the majority. The draft was therefore adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 937 of the supplements. Since there are also some provisions of the draft concerning a federal law which amends the Federal Law on Schools for the Training of Body Teachers and Sports Teachers, in accordance with the nature. 14 para. 10 Federal Constitutional Law can only be passed in the presence of at least half of the members, I note it. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to give the present draft law an appropriate sign. – This is done by the majority. I therefore expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who also wish to give the draft law their approval at third reading in order to give a corresponding sign. – This is also the majority. In turn, I expressly define the two-thirds majority required for constitutional purposes. We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on Education to take note of its report 1021 of the supplements. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done by the majority. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Hoechtl, Mr Antoni and Mr Comrades on measures for a non-drug-free school. In the event of consent, I ask you for a sign to be given. – This is the majority. Accepted. (E 95.) We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Höchtl, Mr Antoni and Mr Comrades on the freedom of violence. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. (E 94.) The agenda is exhausted. The next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business communications, will be convened at 22.40 p.m., immediately following this meeting. The sitting is closed.
