ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e2641	Ladies and gentlemen! I welcome you very much and open the 74. Meeting of the National Council. The Official Protocols of 72 and 73. Meeting of 6. On May 1, 1997, the European Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. For today's sitting as prevented, MEPs are reported Dr. Preisinger, Rosenstingl, Mag. Barmüller and Dr. Gusenbauer. Mrs Petrovic has referred to the Rules of Procedure. I'll give her the word. Amendments to the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e2678	Mr President. We have raised written objections to the agenda. We call for the suspension of agenda items 7 to 10 in order to create room for a declaration by the Federal Government on Kurds murder.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e2696	Thank you. . You have heard the objections relating to a change in the agenda. As this agenda was agreed at the President's meeting, I cannot join this amendment from the Bureau. The Rules of Procedure provide that in a debate on objections the speaking time is 5 minutes and that the number of speakers can be limited to three per group, I make use of this opportunity. Mrs Petrovic. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the Speaking time: 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e2723	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yesterday, a report by the Federal Government on the investigation of the events in connection with the Kurdish murders of 1989 in Vienna has been received by the group presidents of the parliamentary parties. In the context of the report, the Minister of Justice notes that these documents have been forwarded to the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office and the Public Prosecutor's Office in Vienna. In the light of this report, we have found that the statements made by the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs in this context, orally, before the House, are in part in considerable contradiction with the statements made in this report. This means that either the statements made at the time by the Foreign Minister must be incorrect or this report. I do not think that this circumstance, namely contradictions in the statements, simply remains in the room. In fact, we would have expected the government to take the opportunity, in the light of the facts that have now emerged, to make its views known to this House. In our view, it would be a matter of course for Parliament to discuss with the House the events of 1989 in the light of the "Mykonos" judgment in Berlin. I would like to point out once again – and we have discussed this in the context of a urgent question – that the accusations that remain in the room – they have not been discouraged by these reports either – are very serious. It is stated in a press release by the Senate Administration for Justice in Berlin that the events of Vienna and Berlin are linked by a red thread and that the murders of Vienna are due to conflicts among Kurdish opposition groups. In the meantime, the government has also admitted that there has been a misbehavior that there have been misdemeanors of the authorities. However, it is not the case that the courts determine, but the question of political responsibility for the events at that time. It is also a question of how long such a matter and the clarification of political responsibility can be postponed in Austria. Formal is only the possibility for the opposition to demand the withdrawal of items of the agenda, which I am doing. However, the real desire we put is that the government – late, but still – will finally bring clarity to this matter from itself, and here in front of this House. Federal Minister! I ask you to: Take account of this house! Explain the contradictions I cannot present in detail in a 5-minute debate here. Please explain why you have answered something quite different in connection with the urgent request than you have now done in your written report. Federal Minister! You add serious damage to this Republic and to this House if you do not at last make use of the possibility of providing a complete clarification of this matter in front of the House.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e2781	Mr Kostelka. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Same time of speech.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e2802	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Petrovic's intervention is highly unacceptable. In the President-in-Office, I admit, this is just a formal argument, we have repeatedly agreed that there is no debate on objections if, as today and tomorrow, we agree on the agenda. Your group has agreed to this, as has all the other groups. And so today's procedure has only one meaning: to stage a material debate under this formal pretext, although You have not referred to this comprehensive report with any argument. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mrs Petrovic! They have quoted exclusively known facts of a press release of a court of the Federal Republic of Germany, but not a single act which is done here in abundance, with one exception: that of the Foreign Ministry, which is ready to submit these documents; I ask the Foreign Minister to do so. [[The speaker shows the report]] In this context, I really have to say to you: I don't understand the greens! – You demand that the water law novels and other important agenda items, which are the prerequisites for creating the legal basis for important environmental investments before the summer, be removed from the agenda, and only for one reason: because you can no longer make a urgent request, although you had five available at the beginning of this year. Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! This is a scandalisation policy that has nothing to do with the facts. Read the report, create the conditions for independent courts to make such a decision, but do not carry out a scandalisation policy with regard to long known facts! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I don't understand how you can speak of a damage to the Republic's reputation. This would only occur if one made allegations that are not proven and did not even bother to go through a careful report in detail.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e2865	The next item is Mrs Mag. Kammerlander. - Same time of speech.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e2887	Mr President. Mr Kostelka! Of course, it is true that the President-in-Office has agreed, but it is also Usus that – and you know that just as well as we do – when new facts appear, something can be discussed. It is new that this report has now been presented. And we have assumed that this report will also be dealt with in a parliamentary way. This is probably the minimum that can be expected if you are unable to set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry which would be the only correct answer to this whole malaise in which the government is located. The minimum requirement is that you treat this at least in parliamentary terms after your self-examination and the attempt at self-cleaning of your mistakes. The fact that you are not even prepared to discuss the reports of the three ministries with the ministers responsible for today in the National Council sheds a very significant light on your understanding. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Dr Gredler.]] Mr Kostelka! There will be tears of grace when you use the water law as an example to show what we have failed to do today by decommissioning the agenda. For one and a half years, the coalition has suspended this law, and thanks to the ÖVP, these measures will not enter into force in 2004, but only in 2008. – This is your understanding of urgency and time. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Why are you against environmental protection?]] That's why what you're doing here is very unbelievable. You stand out here and say: How terrible what the opposition requires! But they don't know what it's all about. You and your colleague, Mr Khol, have so far refused to set up a committee of inquiry, namely: The Ministries are now testing! That the public in Austria and almost all the media are now making fun of it, and that the examination of a matter of their own can only lead to the conclusion that one has not owe anything, let it be completely disregarded. The fact that everyone is rightly mentioned today that in the future everyone is checking his own taxes and then pronouncing himself so to speak that he has acted lawfully does not pay attention. Your argument: First, let's examine the ministries and then discuss and look on! Now, if you are not even willing to discuss this report, this convoy, which has been on the table since yesterday and which clearly shows in twelve points that at least Foreign Minister Schüssel here – I say so – has taken a different attitude to the report, which has said the untruth. One of them is not right: either the report or what the Foreign Minister has said. You are not even ready to discuss it. They are not willing to discuss the errors in the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior. I ask you: What do you have to hide? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What are you afraid of? What consequences do you fear? Before, you have gone so far and said that you will produce a report on all the ministries and then present it to the public. What is Parliament worth? I would like to ask the honourable Members: What are you worth? What self-esteem do you have that you are satisfied that you are allowed to read a report in the paper and are then informed on television about what this report says? – But you will have the right to discuss it here in this House! You are the Sovereign, and you refuse the right to decide what you are discussing here.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e2946	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Khol. – Equal conditions.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e2968	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The subject of an objection debate is that a political group is asking for the agenda to be changed so that another item on the agenda is put on the agenda. I believe that today there is an attempt by the Greens to force an early debate on the setting up of an investigation committee or a Kurd debate by misappropriate application of the Rules of Procedure. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wabl.]] . I do not agree to hold a debate in the context of a debate on the setting up of an investigation committee or any other debate. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Axle.]] I also think that it is up to you to try to put an item on the agenda which you have not yet drawn up and which you have not even formulated, which you cannot formulate, because you would have to go over committees to the agenda. [[==References====External links== Wabl]] It is also very clear, ladies and gentlemen, where the priorities of the Greens are: The priorities of the Greens are a scandalisation of policy; the priorities of the Greens are actionism; the priorities are to demand a Kurds Investigation Committee, although all the facts are on the table. The landfill regulation, water law, environmental protection laws – all this does not interest the Greens, which can also enter into force in autumn or next year. What the Greens are talking about here is actionism, and it is about making our Republic bad. I say it again: The truth has been said here that there is nothing to investigate, the facts are on the table. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Wabl.]] As far as the evaluation is concerned, we do not think otherwise, and you can discuss these assessments with the Minister in the context of a urgent question, but to do so in the context of an objection debate is a misuse of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e3038	The next speaker is Mrs Dr Schmidt. Speaking time: 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e3059	Mr President. High house! I think that if Parliamentaryism is taken seriously, then it is also necessary to take its rules seriously. If we ask for a parliamentary committee of inquiry, we will do so because we believe that Parliament is the right place to clarify such matters. I insist that the proceedings concerning the murder of the Kurds require parliamentary reconnaissance. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] And I believe that the report, which was presented yesterday, has only confirmed it. However, I do not intend to address this report now, because, and this is my opinion, it would be a misuse of the rules of the game, which I take seriously. I do not want to stand on the one hand for parliamentarianism, but on the other hand, if it fits into my mind, I do not take the rules of the game seriously. This is about the credibility of politics, and I believe that the Greens too would be well advised to see parliamentarianism and rules of play as belonging to each other. If I say yes to parliamentarianism, I also say yes to his rules of play. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on representatives of the ÖVP.]] Because I also want to be able to get excited about it – that is, I don't want to get upset – I want to have a pure conscience if I'm teasing the abuse of the rules by the liberals here, but then I can't work with the same means – and you're doing it! A debate on the amendment of the agenda really means a change in the agenda. [[Abg. Wabl: A terrible abuse of Parliament!]] However, the report by the Ministers, which I also think is necessary, would not even require an amendment to the agenda. Then: The agenda items that we are dealing with today could be left on the agenda, regardless of whether it is the water law law law or anything else, we need to do nothing more than extend the speaking time. It would be worth me sitting here for five hours longer, discussing five hours longer, just about the establishment of this Committee of Inquiry. However, the debate on objections is not the appropriate instrument because we cannot force ministers to report. Today, we will re-establish our request for a committee of inquiry – and we will make it so long until a rethinking takes place here! You also know that we will have a debate on this. Under the rules of the Rules of Procedure, it is only after the end of the agenda. It is true that the journalists will no longer be present at this time. I am speaking, however, not just for journalists, but for the conviction of this House. And when it comes to one thing, you could have waited till then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e3109	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Reichhold. Speaking time: 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e3130	Mr President. High house! I do not want to address Mrs Schmidt's attacks, but I would just like to say: It is increasingly profiled as the extended arm of the government in the opposition. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! However, I would very much like to take the Greens' debate on the objection to questioning the seriousness of the government coalition with the rights of interaction and control, including the opposition, in this House. It is significant that, in your opinion, many affairs in this Republic should not be discussed in Parliament, such as the affair of Praschak, which has shown the abysses of this Republic in the banking sector. We are talking about a price agreement between banks, and agreements in the control bank. These are tax-advanced distributions of profits and commissions and party-political influence in post-ordering as well as in operational transactions. – These are points which the public are very interested in and which should be discussed in the House. Another example in this context would be the Standing Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors, in which files are simply not presented, even if the German army makes questionable compensation operations. [[Abg. Koppler: Were you there?]] What do we need a parliament for then? For what purpose do you want to abuse Parliament by your majority from the coalition? Why Give Do you not give Parliament the opportunity to comply with its control rights and to discover affairs? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The minority rights of the Austrian National Council do not comply with the European standard! There is still much to be done in this area! However, they are once again victims of the reform of the Rules of Procedure, a "reform" that you yourself have agreed to. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This House simply has priorities to set. If you look at Agenda items 7 to 9, you notice that the agenda items are really no longer up-to-date. Then: We are discussing a 1995 forest report. We are also discussing a request from Mr Peter, which I believe would hurt him if the issue of mountain biking were to be postponed. We will once again discuss a novel to the Water Law Act, against which the countries have protested harshly. Many national leaders have already announced that they will use the so-called consultation mechanism. So what should we discuss today about a novel and decide if it is highly controversial at country level and will cause major problems in implementation?- Oh, my God! I am therefore in favour of taking these points from the agenda, of setting priorities in this House, and of breaking up today, in particular, the verifier cartel, which appears to exist between red and black.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e3189	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall proceed to the vote. [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: A word message!]] If I have said that no one has spoken and no one has been reported here to the Bureau, then it remains with this decision. We are therefore voting on Mrs Petrovic's request to withdraw Agenda items 7 to 10 from today's agenda. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree with Mr Petrovic's request that these items be put to the vote. – That's the minority. It remains with the agenda that has been issued. Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e3225	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject Current status of the EU Government Conference First of all, Mr Spindelegger has spoken. I'll give it to him. Speech time: 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e3254	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! We have proposed this topic for the current hour, because it seems that the European Union Intergovernmental Conference is at its end at the beginning of June and should therefore be an opportunity in this House to discuss this issue in detail, which is so important for Austria. At the beginning, I can say what is different at this European Union Intergovernmental Conference. When the Council set up a reflection group in Corfu in 1994 to prepare the Intergovernmental Conference, it was not yet possible for us to see how Austria could actually participate as a full member at the beginning of 1995. I believe that there has been a quality leap for us, first of all having to hold: We can participate in this Intergovernmental Conference of the European Union as a full member, and this is a significant increase in our ability to participate in the European Union. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Arbitrator.]] I would like to deal with some of the items that are particularly important from our point of view at this Intergovernmental Conference. As the first point, I would like to draw attention to the greater citizens of Europe, which has a very special role for Austria and, above all, for the Austrian People's Party. We asked the Austrian People's Party to focus on citizens' expectations and concerns at this Intergovernmental Conference. I would like to explain this by means of three points. I believe that the democratic involvement of the institutions must be stressed more, and I should like to say that after this Intergovernmental Conference, the European Parliament must certainly go out with more rights, especially in the codecision procedure, than it was before. It is not clear to any citizen that he has the opportunity to elect a Member directly to the European Parliament, but that he does not have a full opportunity to participate in the legislative procedure in the issue of co-decision. This is therefore an essential point in strengthening democracy. The second point concerns the question of strengthening the Committee of the Regions. We may not have the great success at the Intergovernmental Conference. However, I think that Austria, as a federalist organized state, must have a particular interest in the fact that the regions of Europe, in the form of this committee, have a stronger right of participation. I believe that the current regulation is still too weak. It is also evident to us that on this issue we received recognition from those States which have a similar federal structure to Austria. We can certainly already count it as a success that special attention and recognition have been given to us on this issue. However, I also believe that the democratic element is not the only one to strengthen the proximity of citizens, but we should also think of simplifications. In this context, I would like to mention procedural simplifications in the matter of Parliament's co-determination. Dublin II shows that measures have already been proposed to limit themselves to 3 procedures in future and not to apply 20 procedures as before. Co-decision, consent and consultation should really be sufficient and make everything clearer and more transparent. However, I also believe that we need to implement simplifications in the application procedure in general. Anyone who wanted to participate in a programme in Austria and has made a request knows how difficult it is to start procedures and to complete applications. He also knows how much cost this causes and how often it is in relation to what one can get from funding. We must, however, also work towards this – and we have done so – that issues relating to our citizens in particular be included in the Treaty. I am thinking, for example, of the question of environmental protection, where some of the wording that Dublin II has already put forward as a proposal for this Intergovernmental Conference goes back to our initiative. I am thinking, for example, of the objectives for sustainability, which are a particular concern of the ÖVP. I would like to address a second point concerning this Intergovernmental Conference, which is of particular importance to me as a Christian employee representative, namely employment policy. From the Austrian point of view, employment policy should not mean that the European Union should have competence and that Austria should be pushed into the background with its actions. No, we want the European Union to be committed to the goal of a high level of employment, to demand high social standards and to coordinate and control Member States' employment policies. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased to note that, in connection with Dublin II, decisions proposed there have been given a broad scope for approval of the Austrian position. Council Employment Guidelines, annual evaluation of the actions of each Member State or support measures to improve cross-border employment policies are just a few points to be included in the employment policy Treaty in the future. And I would like to highlight this as the real success of Austria in these negotiations. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Arbitrator.]] Ladies and gentlemen! However, I believe that in practice we must constantly strive to implement this employment policy. In the context of this implementation, a major project, which is enshrined in the Treaty, must be taken into account, namely the development of the trans-European networks. This is an investment volume which is extremely large. It aims to modernise infrastructure within the European Union. This would also have employment effects which would be particularly beneficial for us in Austria. If, therefore, I have discussions that say that the Red Pen has to be set up there too, I can only say: We Austrians – with a North-South connection via the Brenner, which will become an even tighter bottleneck than it has already been in the past – need these trans-European networks. I would particularly like to hold on to that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would now like to address a third point which is important to us, namely the common foreign and security policy. As Austria's expectations, we have expressed our wish to improve the preparations for the decisions, to seek more effective European Union decision-making on these issues, to promote more effective implementation of the CFSP and also to expect progress in security and defence policy. If we look at the Dublin conclusions, we can see that much of what has been determined there is to come to pass. However, I would like to say the following: The one side of the medal is the question of whether the "political arm" of the European Union, the decisions there, actually meets our interest in a stronger commitment in the field of security policy. But this political side is just the one side of the medal. The other side is the "military arm". Ladies and gentlemen! Let's not think about it. At this Intergovernmental Conference, no new European Army will crystallize itself, but the "military arm" will be the "NATO new". I would therefore very much like to see this House discuss it realistically. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Finally, I would like to say that we can point to the success of the Dublin II results so far, and this shows that Austria, as a small country, can also leave its mark in a large community. I wish our negotiating team and, in particular, the Deputy Chancellor and Foreign Minister for this Intergovernmental Conference very much luck and success in the interests of Austria! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e3384	Mr Vice-Chancellor spoke on the subject of the current hour. His speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please, Mr. Vice-Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e3406	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Europe is a project, it is an unfinished project, and this unfinished project is being developed in the course of so-called treaty conferences or intergovernmental conferences. The conference, which is now under way and will change the European Union for the first time with Austrian participation – I hope at least – is very interesting, because the project Europe is taking on further shape. We already have a common economic area where free trade can be driven, where there are the same standards, the same standards and the same rules. We want a common social area where there are minimum standards for social rules and we want a common foreign policy. There will eventually be a common defence policy at European level. And we are currently working feverishly on the development of a European currency. You must not believe that these things have not already existed: In the Austro-Hungarian monarchy, for example, there have already been many of these elements. Very different countries had a common foreign policy, a common defence policy, a common economic area and a common currency. – Europe is thus now following what has been painfully lost by two world wars. Austria is now taking part in this project for the first time – and we are also very committed. We have also achieved many things in the previous Intergovernmental Conference. Allow me to begin by thanking all those involved in this joint project: These are all ministries, among which cooperation also works smoothly; the Federal Chancellery, the Foreign Office, but also all other departments have worked well together. However, I would also like to express my express thanks to the five parliamentary groups which, like few other national parliaments, have partly accompanied the work at this Intergovernmental Conference with constructive but also critical-constructive contributions. Overall, the result is a very good one. Thank you very much! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] What were the most important objectives that Austria has set itself? Allow me to say: It was not primarily the games of power and the demonstrations of power of the great – who is becoming stronger: the Commission, the Parliament, the Council? How many voices is each country supposed to have? – In reality, the public is not interested in anything. We have focused on what is most important to the citizen. My friend Spindelegger has already said that the most important issue at present in Europe is the creation of jobs: To secure jobs, open up new opportunities. The second major issue is human rights. Austria has been particularly active in this field. And this issue will become more important if we extend the Community of 15 to perhaps 20 or even 25 countries. The third issue was environmental protection. How can we keep higher standards or even create new ones? The fourth important issue – especially if international crime is more organized – is how we create more cooperation between the police and judicial authorities and the courts, without giving up the possibility of an emergency brake in the common asylum and migration policy, so that we can close our borders in national interest. A very important issue was the better coordination of foreign policy, which unfortunately does not work well on some of the issues in the European Union at all. It was important to us Austrians were a contractual anchoring of animal welfare. At the beginning we were completely alone, but now no one really dares to be against it. It is not yet officially, but I hope that we will establish a common protocol in this sense. An equally important positive message: Equality between men and women is certainly beyond today's Article 119, which is above: equal pay for equal work. There should also be positive measures for the production of this equality. These are the positive reports, and I believe that there are great matters to be considered which must also be weighted properly. The coordination at European level through its own employment chapter cannot, of course, make us believe that this will create concrete jobs, but it is important that we also at European level ensure that we better coordinate our employment policy. Much has been done in terms of human rights. With regard to environmental protection, there is a partial success in anchoring the common concern of sustainable development as a contractual objective; developing standards remains open. As far as internal security is concerned, it is important that the European Police Unit Europol be operational. It is also important that the European Court of Justice should be given a stronger position. It is likely that the Schengen Agreement will be better integrated into the European Treaty. In the field of foreign policy, small steps will be taken to improve: a better planning unit and a better preparation of decisions. A continuous representative of the European Union will be used to better coordinate European foreign policy. We also want to include the Petersberg actions – security against crises as well as peace-building and preserved actions – in the Treaty. Further measures, such as those proposed by some Member States, such as the merger of the EU and the Western European Union, will certainly not be possible in this Treaty because of the resistance of Britain and the scepticism of some Nordic countries. On the last day of this meeting, the particularly delicate institutional questions will certainly come up. It will become critical for us, because – you have to put it openly on the table – there is a real conflict between the small and the large countries. The large countries want to bring about a change in the Commission in the way that no longer every Member State automatically has its Commissioner in the Commission. We strongly reject that. Instead, we believe that the Commission can only speak crediblely for Europe as a whole if each Member State is represented in it with its seat and voice. That's where the railway "passes over". In the end, may this become so critical as well: I cannot imagine that Austria – as well as other small countries – can and may submit to this question. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] The second critical question will be the re-weighting of votes. It is true that today the smaller states in the EU Council have a disproportionate voting weight. Austria has four votes, on the other hand, the Germans, although the population is ten times as large, have only ten votes. This results in a vote ratio of 4 : 10. whereas the population ratio is 1 : 10. This is, of course, an advantage for Austria. But it expresses a conscious balance that the smaller states can and should be more emphatically represented. This has proved to be a good principle in the history of the European Union. I cannot imagine that there is no need – and there is no need for it – to change something about it. However, I could imagine that the introduction of a further barrier is not only by checking each vote whether there is a qualified majority, but also by asking whether the votes in the Council of Ministers represent a corresponding majority of the population. I wouldn't have bothered it. If, in a vote, it turns out that this decision is also about 60% of the European population, I believe that this is an additional democratic criterion that would be favourable to the votes in the Union. In the end, I would accept such a compromise. I hope that Parliament will also be involved. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I come to the conclusion. – An important role in the institutions also plays the balance of power or the balance of forces between the European Parliament and the national parliaments. Austria is very committed to increasing the rights of the European Parliament without calling into question the possibilities for national parliaments to participate and co-determination. On this question, we will bring a partial success, I say quite openly: There will be more co-decisions. However, the scepticism will not allow the major breakthrough to be achieved, especially among the large Member States. However, we want to add a protocol to the Treaty to ensure that national parliaments, including Austrians, have a strong voice in the European co-decision. These are the results before the final game, in which two Foreign Ministers Rounds and two clauses will take place in the European Council. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e3534	I would like to thank Mr Vice-Chancellor for his opinion and information. We are now entering the debate. According to § 97a para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure shall be limited to 5 minutes. Mrs Maria Rauch-Kallat. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e3564	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! The Intergovernmental Conference on the European Union, which began in Turin in March 1996, will be concluded by the European Summit in Amsterdam in June 1997. In the course of the negotiations on the Intergovernmental Conference, Austria has shown itself to be a reform and integration-oriented member of the European Union. As the Foreign Minister has just said, the Intergovernmental Conference does not involve the overall transformation of the European Union at the outset, but it has taken many important steps towards its deepening, which is the essential prerequisite for enlargement by the Central and Eastern European countries. The 1996 Intergovernmental Conference and its results will provide a good basis for the constructive and successful work of Austria at its 1998 EU Presidency when fundamental structural reforms in the area of common foreign policy, the budget allocation and the structural package will have to be implemented by Austria as a Presidency country. Ladies and gentlemen! Member States have addressed the Intergovernmental Conference with great serenity. It was all clear that the European Union was on a solid, undisputed basis, so that there were no longer fundamental questions but further improvements in the lives of all Europeans. It was a question of deepening political cooperation in Europe and of strengthening links, including in the fields of foreign policy, but also, to a particular extent, with regard to justice and security, that is, the third pillar. In this area in particular, the structures of the European Union today need to be adapted. Fighting international crime, drug trafficking and terrorism are important tasks that suit important concerns of each individual citizen of the European Union. The 1992 Maastricht Treaty already provides for a new revision of the Treaties in its provisions. It also states that, by means of a general clause, Member States can make any desired amendment to the Treaties on the subject of the conference. This possibility has been used intensively by Austria. Austria has defined its views on all the topics of the Intergovernmental Conference, but above all on the above, in the guidelines and in principle positions on the Intergovernmental Conference. In the third pillar, Austria called for further development in two ways: On the one hand, it concerns the transfer of the tasks from the field of internal security to the first pillar, i.e. community, and on the other hand the increased use of Community institutions in the third pillar. For a Community, Austria has proposed the following areas: Visa policy, asylum, external border controls, drug trafficking and customs cooperation. However, criminal matters should remain in the third pillar. The possibility of a majority decision should be gradually extended to the third pillar, in particular to combat organised crime. Dialogue with Central and Eastern European countries should be expanded, particularly in the area of justice and home affairs: Migration policy, border control, police training and standardisation of asylum procedures. Austria has clearly expressed its support for the further development of existing structures and for the integration of key policy areas. But also with regard to important concerns, which are particularly serious within Austria, the Foreign Minister has been able to launch significant initiatives in terms of environmental protection, animal welfare, human rights issues and the integration of disabled people. Unfortunately, the Austrian prelude to the inclusion of an anti-discrimination clause for disabled people has not yet received the same level of response from Member States as the Austrian-British initiative to anchor animal welfare in the EU treaties. In the field of environmental protection, partial success has been achieved, which in particular has led to a stronger anchorage of the ecological principle in the common policy. Austria has thus demonstrated that even smaller Member States can give significant impetus to the further development of the European Union. With its first major occurrence as an EU Member State within the framework of this conference, Austria has demonstrated its ability to implement solutions in the area of pressing problems.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e3622	Ladies and gentlemen, please take note of the speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e3637	In conclusion: Austria has proved to be a full, committed and active member of the European Union. The Austrians can rightly be proud of the work of the Foreign Minister and his home.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e3667	The next speaker is Mr Peter Schieder. Same time of speech – rather: not equal speaking time, but 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e3711	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The current hour offers us an opportunity to look at Austria's position within the European Union and to ask us the question of how Austria is going to become a new member country, how it is coming in and how we can influence the line. Ladies and gentlemen! The answer is positive. I would like to stress that the first word must be that of praise and recognition for all those who represent our position jointly defined and notified in Parliament in Brussels, as well as for those who prepare our position in our country in the various departments, but also in the field of the social partners, and who support it with arguments. Against this background, the four points I would like to address are to be seen. The first point concerns active employment policy or the corresponding contractual arrangements in the revised Maastricht Treaty. This question was raised by Austria and represented vehemently. The number of people involved in the inclusion of a social agreement and a chapter on employment has now increased; the new English Government has also gained new momentum in this area. Mr Vice-Chancellor, perhaps you could tell us how you estimate the possibilities in this area. The second point concerns the institutional: the composition of the Commission and the re-weighting of votes. The Austrian position is clear: It must remain that each country appoints a Commissioner and we reject a reweighting of the votes, but we are open to the introduction of the double majority system. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! I am glad that you said this so strongly today, and I am also glad that you did so at the meeting on 29 and 30 February. In April, it was equally clear in Luxembourg and also pointed out that the current practice of each Member State setting up an ECJ Directive should be explicitly regulated in the ETUC. The third area is one of which I believe that our attitude should be re-adjusted, namely the question of flexibility in the area of the first pillar. The Federal Chamber of Labour is right if it points out that the Austrian position was always the one to see flexibility only as an exception and to give it a transitional character in the case of application, because the common legal basis of the internal market must be respected. If one is closer to the various areas, then one can see that the flexibility system is either conceptually excluded because it is the internal market legislation or is pointless, such as the basis for voluntary action. On the other hand, this system is either disrupting compromise because it does not lead to economically motivated measures, or it is even harmful, for example where it involves site disadvantages. It is therefore appropriate to reject the flexibility of the decision-making with limited application under the first pillar of the first pillar and, instead, to examine the areas in which qualified majority voting can be avoided as a result of the need for unanimity. The fourth and last point I can only address briefly for reasons of time. Mr. Vice-Chancellor, maybe You will provide information on why you will be present at the meeting of the Foreign Ministers on 29 and 30 February. On the question of the future relationship between the EU and WEU, April was one of those who agreed to the Presidency's approach, instead of voting in favour of the Irish approach, following the example of states with a similar attitude and constitution, such as Austria, Finland, Ireland or Sweden. Since my statements contain so much praise, may I also be allowed a critical remark: I am interested in why it must be Austria that, in terms of the re-design of the relationship between the EU, WEU and NATO, has been most concerned and concerned about whether there had already been appropriate contacts with the United States of America. It is good if we behave in solidarity on all these issues, but I do not know whether we should be more papal than the Pope. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e3762	The next speaker is Mr Reinhart Gaugg. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e3787	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! What we have just experienced in the current hour is a misuse of parliamentary institutions. I'll explain this immediately. lean with a safety bordering on penetrance They shall take any initiative to set up investigative committees, whether it concerns the murders of the Kurds or the Praschak case. Because you're "doing over" with your majority, although that would be a current requirement. The reason for this is that you are afraid of detection. And in these circumstances, it is not clear that today's current hour is about to present a homage to Mr Vice-Chancellor for unfinished projects; he himself has addressed this inadequacy in his remarks. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Unfinished projects and announcements are topics that have just been discussed: from animal welfare to employment policy, which during the last half hour was no longer than a minute's content of the discussion! Only one minute has it been dedicated to employment policy and it means that it is important and that it becomes a subject in the EU. I can only say: I expect the Federal Government to find solutions to the question of employment. But these solutions are missing! The Peter principle cannot work. We will not succeed in creating jobs with this government. We are suffering from rising unemployment and have a declining supply of jobs, but the government is putting everything down to Dublin II to solve the problem there. That's not how it works! The credibility of this government is approaching zero! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The credibility of the government is therefore suffering because it would be much better for Mr Vice-Chancellor to tell us today what promises were made on the occasion of EU accession. Which EU accession promises have been fulfilled by you and your colleagues to this day? - None! I'm sorry to have to find out, but you seem to have no ability to learn. The "faller bowl" has already been spoken of more often, and this is confirmed again and again: whether it be on the occasion of the acquisition of the CA by Bank Austria, whether it be in the NATO question or in the field of the EU. It is also repeatedly pointed out that something will happen in the future, but nothing will happen after that. That is why I would urge you to go back to the National Council only if you can demonstrate your work and achieve results. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I wish you and your colleagues on the question of the EU had a similar commitment to show where you manage to celebrate the post office in Austria. [[New condolences with the liberals.]] They pursue a perfect employment policy for your secretaries and officials. You can control these in perfection, in all areas: at the Austrian Bundesbahnen, at the Austrian National Bank, at all banks, insurance companies and nationalized companies. Wherever possible, your own secretaries will be provided. I would like such care posts to be offered to all other Austrian workers, on similar conditions, namely, with a million-height gage. I think it would be good for you, Mr Vice-Chancellor, to offer us solutions on employment policy within the EU, especially in Austria, which could lead to a greater number of employees in our country.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e3868	The next speaker is Mrs Gredler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e3889	Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I am surprised that you can praise yourself so much, Minister of State. The fact that there seems to be doubts also with your government partner shows that in the final applause only two social democrats have found themselves who have supported you. My first point is: They say that the European Union is now at an important stage of Austria's full integration. I wonder, however, why the government's last position was in April 1996 and there has been no joint declaration from the government since then. Second point: Why do the coalition parties not allow them to draw up a joint opinion? We have allowed ourselves to make proposals on CFSP, on fundamental rights, on institutions, on justice and home affairs in the main committee, in order to reach a common opinion in Parliament. This was not possible. However, this is very possible in other parliaments, for example in Italy. There, the parliamentarians agreed that if the European Parliament does not develop its competences, they will not agree to ratification. [[Abg. Arbitrators: There is only a common opinion if there is a common opinion!]] I would have liked, Mr Arbitrator, that we too should get to this position. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Your applications did not even exist a day before the meeting! The others couldn't see that! That wasn't serious!]] Of course, it is serious, Mr Schieder. You know that. You were in committee with me. But I want to continue, as the conversation with you has not yet been fruitful. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on Green MEPs.]] On fundamental rights: A European People's Rights would have been added; this has not been mentioned. Animal welfare is also an important matter. Why has Austria not yet managed to coordinate animal welfare throughout the country? He's still country-related, but that would be the first step. In terms of employment, of course, it is important to have an employment chapter – you can spray it on every wall of the Commission – but as long as the European Union spends more money on tobacco cultivation, on silkworms and on textile plants than on employment, I must say that it smells of feasibility. I would therefore like you to make a clear statement that non-compulsory and compulsory tasks are dealt with in one, i.e. that the European Parliament is entitled to co-decision in the case of non-compulsory tasks. It is only in this way that we will get under control of abuse that we have the guarantee that the employment initiatives launched by the European Union will also be adequately financed. It's pathetic what we're playing for! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on Green MEPs.]] They are really trying to stop Parliament wherever it is. Not only have we not been able to work out a common position in the main committee so far, Mr Schieder – I really wish – but you are opposed to the use of research committees where it is obvious that not only a few but many people in Austria see the need for a parliamentary assessment, but it is still going on. It is about the rights of those citizens who integrate into the EU, it is about the rights of those who are willing to immigration. Interestingly, there is a resolution in the European Parliament on 30 November. It was adopted in January 1997. This resolution calls for non-EU citizens to be given the right to vote after five years of integration. We have been very much attacked by all kinds of political groups. Interestingly, however, in this vote, all members of the ÖVP who were present have signed: Stenzel, Schierhuber, Rübig, Flemming, Rack et cetera. All Austrian Social Democrats have voted in favour, and – you hardly believe it – Hager, Kronberger, Linser, my knowledge of three FP mandates in the European Parliament, have also advocated – and I praise them – that the EU foreigners, who have been integrated after five years, receive the right to vote in local elections. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e3952	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Kammerlander. She's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e3974	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. It is a difficult debate, because if I look around here, I note that not all are tied up with the idea of discussing the Intergovernmental Conference today at a current hour. This may be because a current hour may not be the appropriate form to discuss a very, very complex matter in 5 minutes' contributions. This can only remain a maculature, whatever any speaker or speaker says at the speaker's desk. But this also shows one of the shortcomings that my previous speaker has already addressed, namely that there has actually been no real parliamentary debate on the subject of the Intergovernmental Conference. There have been some rather laborious debates in the main committee, but no general parliamentary debate. I believe that the level of information is very different, which is of course also because it is a very complex matter for the matter before the negotiations. When this Intergovernmental Conference started last year, I believe that many of you have had very different ideas from what has been treated and discussed this year and what is likely to come out. I believe that many of you and many others in the population, who have heard that there is an intergovernmental conference at European level, are wondering what this conference is actually discussing. She advises how this Europe will look tomorrow. This, of course, connects visions. What will this Europe look like? In what direction should it develop? What should the future look like after the collapse of the regimes in Eastern Europe, after the collapse of the Iron Curtain? What will result from economic and social policy? What will become, in particular, within the framework of the security policy of this Europe? What will be advised? If you listen to what the Minister reports about the Intergovernmental Conference today, it is very many formal details, individual provisions on which majority voting is concerned and so on. But this does not give a picture of what this Europe will look like in the next few years. In my opinion, it is one of the very great mancos at this Intergovernmental Conference that it has not succeeded – Mrs Rauch-Kallat has said that from the point of view of a government party – to achieve a great transformation of this European Union. This is one of the great mancos, because the expectations raised by the Intergovernmental Conference went towards a great transformation of this European Union. But this great transformation – you know it today, as it were in the final game, already – will not exist. It will be difficult to see the direction in which further development will go. I would just like to take three examples to support this once again. I would like to begin with what is the most tangible and the closest thing for all Austrians, namely the question of foreign and security policy. This is, of course, the question of neutrality, the question of possible accession to a military block such as NATO. In principle, nothing has been decided on this question. Only details of majority decisions and findings have been established in the context of the common foreign and security policy, but what this common European security policy looks like and what this foreign policy should work for, there is neither a draft nor a clear statement. In this respect, recent history was not just glorious. A reply to the statements made by one of my previous speakers, who meant, of course, will be the NATO new ones, and this House should be worthy of discussing this question. I constantly wonder what is new to this NATO, as long as this NATO is still a military pact and not an association of friends, and as long as this military pact continues to adhere to the nuclear first blow and the nuclear upgrade. What is new to this military pact, and why should it be more attractive for Austria today than it was a few years ago? The suggestion that it should be discussed in the House can only be taken up and returned to the government parties. Let us set up a committee of inquiry to deal with these questions. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] This shows me again – and this is my conclusion – that it is not possible to go beyond one point of the very essential areas of the Intergovernmental Conference in 5 minutes. I would like to have at least a detailed debate on the results of the Intergovernmental Conference.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e4031	The next speaker is Mr. Dr. König. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e4052	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It has rightly been said that the Intergovernmental Conference is going to conclude that compromises will soon be reached and decisions will have to be taken. That is why it is likely that this House will be able to determine what we think is the essential things that will decide on success or failure at this Intergovernmental Conference. I regret that the opposition parties did not perceive this possibility. I would like to keep three points from my waiting, which I think are crucial to the question of whether this Intergovernmental Conference will be a success or, I hope, exhausted in small things and thus become a failure. The first and crucial question is that of the principle of the introduction of majority decisions in the Council of Ministers, with a qualified double majority. There must be no blockade. The European Union must remain capable of decision-making, even if it is extended. The failure of this concern could mean the failure of enlargement, and thus the failure of the extension of the system of peace which we have in Western Europe by the European Union, including in Eastern Europe, which is waiting so much for us to be involved. The second essential concern, which is closely linked to the first, is the full equality of the European Parliament in all legislative procedures at European level, which are decided by a majority of the Council. I would not be satisfied because it is about transparency and democratic control re-establishing the confidence of citizens in the decisions of the EU. This is not an evaluation of the national Parliament, because we have control by our representatives in the Council of Ministers, but it is the necessary supplement by the directly elected European Parliament. On this point I agree with Mr Gredler, who unfortunately does not listen to me, but I think it would have been nice if she could have said so on behalf of her group. The third crucial question is that at this Intergovernmental Conference we draw lessons from the tragedy in former Yugoslavia. If it is not possible to create conditions in the common foreign and security policy which will prevent the European Union from being unable to act in crisis situations in our immediate vicinity, the disappointment about the EU – the ex-Yugoslavia case has, after all, greatly contributed to the devaluation of the EU in the population – will continue. I note that we have learned about the events in Albania, but it is about institutionalization, which makes it possible for these questions to be governed and answered quickly in the future. [[In the case of the ÖVP and the Abg. Arbitrator.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I think we can say today that it was right that we had worked hard to be with us in the first round of enlargement and to be able to participate now. In these three key points, which are contained in the guidelines of the Declaration of Government, which one does not need to change because they are still valid and must be pursued. I would like to add something: A standstill in European integration would pose the risk of renationalisation. Everyone knows what consequences this might have. It is therefore vital that this Intergovernmental Conference will succeed in meeting the expectations of people within the EU and in the new democratic states in Central and Eastern Europe and that we set forward future visions at the Intergovernmental Conference, which are realistic and which need to be put in place for their implementation at the Intergovernmental Conference.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e4110	Mrs Dr Karlsson came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e4131	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! Mr Vice-Chanzler rightly stressed that Austria has focused on the formulation and enforcement of fundamental rights and human rights. I would like to point this out in four points and confirm it. First point: After Dublin II, a new Article 6a is to be introduced into the Treaties, which provides for a ban on discrimination not only because of disability, as Mrs Rauch-Kallat has said, but also because of sexual orientation. I believe that, on the Austrian side, we should give this Dublin II form without reservations and full emphasis. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Schmidt.]] Secondly, Equality between men and women. To this end, a number of necessary additions have been proposed which simply have to bring to the up-to-date the UN conventions which have already been adopted, which are unfortunately outdated. In particular, there is an addition to Article 119, which seeks to consolidate those measures which are often discussed, which are designed to promote equality in practical working life, namely specific benefits for women to compensate for disadvantages. This supplement and the various other necessary adjustments to supplement the Treaty should also give Austria a 100% support. Thirdly, the development of a very rapid and effective mechanism against human rights violations within the EU. On this point, I am not entirely satisfied with the status quo, because the procedure is too long, and political changes can take place very quickly. We cannot give up the right of mutual asylum – although I do not agree with this idea that a united Europe does not need a mutual right of asylum – if there is no correspondingly fast and effective mechanism. As honourable Members have already said, further negotiations and adjustments are needed. Finally, international humanitarian law. In the very detailed chapter on the common foreign and security policy, humanitarian international law needs to be anchored, not because I believe that it could be applied once within the European Union, but to show that the states of the European Union are behind it at a time when international humanitarian law is being disregarded and violated. That is why it should be anchored: not because I believe and hope that it will never be applied, but to show this confirmation. If, from the Austrian side, we succeed in establishing, in addition to including an employment chapter, the anchoring of these human rights and fundamental rights issues, then, I believe, we will also show our people that the European Union is far more than an economic union, a union of companies, a union of the currency, the Maastricht criteria, which have become somewhat disputed, namely, a Union of democracy and human rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e4182	The next speaker is Mrs Elfriede Madl. She's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e4207	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I also think that today's current hour is a jubilant event for the EIA to join the EU. The Federal Minister has shown us today how important it was and is that Austria is now allowed to negotiate as a full member of the EU. Federal Minister! The Austrians are still awaiting the positive effects of EU accession and the thousands of people promised by Brigitte Ederer. The Austrians, on the other hand, only had negative effects. Federal Minister! You have, in your remarks, shamefully and probably kept silent, that since Austria's accession to the European Union, the employment situation in the EU has become very poor, especially in Austria. They have been as shamefully and probably silent as it is about the negotiations to include the employment criteria or the employment situation especially in Austria in the catalogue of the convergence criteria in the run-up to monetary union. You didn't tell us about that today. Mr Schieder has already asked you about this today, and you have remained guilty of it. I'm excited to see if this answer will come. You have also not told us to what extent you will cooperate with the other countries, which are now increasingly strong in establishing contractually that the job situation is one of the convergence criteria. This is no wonder, however, because, according to the latest study carried out by the Chamber of Labour in Upper Austria, 89 percent of workers – I ask the Social Democrats to listen once, they are supposed to be the representatives of the workers, at least they always claim it – are afraid that unemployment will rise by the introduction of the euro. [[Abg. Böhacker: Not for a long time!]] 89 percent of working people fear this, but not only because they are disinformed, as you claim, but because they feel it in their own bodies and have been able to track the development in the last one and a half years. [[Abg. Böhacker: Who found this?]] The impact of the euro on their own living conditions is also considered to be negative by 39 percent of workers, and only 22 percent of workers see positive effects. Do you know where these positive effects come from? – There will be reliefs when travelling abroad, when buying abroad and in money traffic. Federal Minister! If unemployment continues to rise and many countries cannot keep up with monetary union and if there will be a euro introduction of the two speeds, then unemployment will increase even more. I now ask you: What do I have as a unemployed person from a cheaper purchase abroad? I can't go abroad as easily as the Austrians used to, and even in money traffic, it doesn't make things easier for an unemployed person. Federal Minister! You said today that you were so close to the citizen and would represent the problems of the citizens in Brussels. If 89 percent of employees in Austria fear that they will become unemployed after the introduction of the euro, I ask you: Why Lead Are you not going to vote for a referendum that could also strengthen the euro in Austria? Why don't you do that? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Because you know the survey data and know very well that employment policy and unemployment figures are probably not included in the catalogue of convergence criteria and will therefore be even more unemployed in Europe. We still demand: Ask If you want to give up the hard schilling and agree to the introduction of the euro, the Austrian people! – I’m already excited about your answer.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e4264	Mr Hans Helmut Moser has the floor. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e4288	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! This current hour really makes sense, as we can talk about their possible results on the eve of the Amsterdam Intergovernmental Conference. It should not, however, serve to address any congratulations to the Foreign Minister. I would have expected the representatives of the government parties to take stock, and I think this would have been really necessary. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] In particular, on the outcome of the Intergovernmental Conference, it could and should have been possible to have a comprehensive involvement and involvement of Parliament, and it would have been particularly important to provide comprehensive information to the people and to Parliament as well. I regret that this has not really happened up to now, and this current hour will not be enough to provide such information. Mr King – you are unfortunately not here now, ah yes, here you are – it would have been really favourable, for example, the three points already raised, namely the question of majority decisions, the question of the full involvement of the European Parliament in the legislative competence of the European Union and also the question of whether the Intergovernmental Conference actually creates the conditions for a common foreign and security policy. [[Abg. Dr. König: Oh yes!]] Unfortunately, this is not possible due to the speaking time fixed at 5 minutes. But one thing shows up right now: Unfortunately, the Intergovernmental Conference will not bring the expected results. The words of the Foreign Minister show that we are already dealing with reducing very high expectations, because the results will be very modest. Mr. Schieder! It might have been useful in the sense of a broad political consensus in Austrian foreign policy, we could have drawn up joint opinions in the main committee. We Liberals have requested opinions and have put them to the discussion, for example, in relation to institutional reform and the anchoring of fundamental rights, opinions relating to the common foreign and security policy or to judicial and internal policy, because it is necessary and task of this Parliament to provide the negotiators with appropriate directives in Brussels. That, ladies and gentlemen, would have made sense, we would have expected liberals to do so, since we are very committed and very focused on European integration and see in it the prospects of our country. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] We say to the European Union that we are talking about European integration and are in favour of its continuation, since we will only be able to meet the challenges of the future if we are looking for this solution together with the other states of Europe, whether on economic policy, social issues, humanitarian international law, which my predecessor has addressed, on migration and internal security, if some panics had not happened in the investigation of the Kurds, there would have been better cooperation on the issue of cooperation at international level – or on matters of common external security. [[Abg. Böhacker: You didn't always say that!]] We can only solve all of this together in conjunction with the European States. I sincerely regret that the results of the common foreign and security policy in particular will not be as expected, because it would have been necessary, in fact, to develop on matters of security policy, on defence policy. I would have expected this Intergovernmental Conference to produce essential results towards a merger of the Western European Union with the European Union, and I would have expected Austria to make an appropriate contribution. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Unfortunately, that didn't happen. We regret this, and I expect you, Foreign Minister, to take advantage of the time that remains until the final conference, and of the two Foreign Ministers' Conferences in the interest of a successful Austrian foreign policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e4357	Mr Karl Öllinger has been mentioned on the floor. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e4381	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My colleague, Mr Kammerlander, has already pointed out: The debate is placating because you lack the sense, the common, the sense-making, the image of Europe that we need if we want to win this Europe with our brains and hearts. It is your problem, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, that you are unable to spread the image of a Europe that is worth fighting for. I only remember the accession debate a few years ago, when you wanted to make us credible, we needed this Europe to finally enforce the Europe sticker. It's gone wrong! The picture of a Europe of open borders, which you signed before accession, has also gone wrong. We need a Europe of open borders! This, Mr Foreign Minister, has thoroughly prevented you from doing so with Schengen. This Europe is open only to the movement of capital, but not to those who move within Europe or at its external borders. I remember something else: There was also something with a Europe in which the Austrians wanted to bring in their exemplary ideas of social policy. That is why we moved out a few years ago. You said from the government: We will certainly also suggest and teach this Europe our ideas of social policy. I remember the fact that there was a chapter dealing with social policy. At some point it was quietly and secretly disposed because it was not even represented within the two government parties and therefore could not be taken to Europe. Ladies and gentlemen! Foreign Minister! I know the speeches and announcements in which this Europe is spoken and in which, whenever it comes to employment, the voice is a little lowered and called for: We have 20 million unemployed, we know it is a serious problem, but we will very well be developing a policy that will deal with this serious and dramatic situation. I know these announcements already enough, but it is not enough, Mr Foreign Minister, for you to assure us again, as well as Mr Schieder, that there will be a chapter in which not only high employment but even full employment will stand. [[Abg. Arbitrator: I promised nothing! You didn't watch out for it!]] I am trembling at the fear and enthusiasm of Mr Schieder, but I am not convinced in any way if there is a chapter in which full employment is recorded, because what is missing from this chapter is the seriousness, the instruments with which full employment or a social union could be enforced in Europe. We would have to talk about the fact that all the protocols and declarations of government always point to unemployment in a dramatic manner and the need for the EU or its Member States to pursue an employment policy in this respect, and again there is an intergovernmental conference, which you have promised several times before, that a common EU employment policy will come into force. It is not coming, and in view of the dramatic situation – not of unemployment, but of a stability pact that is just about to prevent employment policy – it is not enough to hold it in just one chapter! If you take this issue seriously, you would have to set up an employment pact containing not only tools for implementing employment policies, which not only contain instruments for trying to achieve a common social policy in Europe, but also sanctions. We need not only sanctions in the Stability Pact, but also sanctions should be laid down for all those Member States that are lagging behind in their employment and social policies. Why don't you do that? Why entertain It is not even at European level about taking up the idea of a foreign exchange tax in the sense of the Tobin tax, which is often spoken of, but which obviously does not have a government representative in a decisive body. It would be an effective tool for taxing first of all the foreign exchange transfers and, secondly, to enforce all the elements of the policy you are talking about. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]] But don't enforce them and don't take them seriously. Ladies and gentlemen! If this Europe is to become effective,...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e4418	Please pay attention to the speaking time!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e4433	... then you have to do something for it.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e4463	The current hour is over. I would like to thank Mr Vice-Chancellor once again. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e4485	I refer to the written communication distributed at the meeting room with regard to the negotiating items and their allocation. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e4663	Before entering the agenda, I should like to point out that the Members of Parliament, Dr. Haider and Comrades, have called for urgent consideration of the self-employed proposal tabled at the same time by Dr. Haider and others concerning post-chakers and the business of friends. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, this urgent request will be called upon to speak at 3 p.m. Request for a short debate on the request for response 2017/AB
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e4689	I shall also inform you, before entering the agenda, that the request made pursuant to § 92 of the Rules of Procedure is to hold a brief debate on the reply to Question 2043/J by Mr Haller and Mr Comrades on tax additional taxes by Mr Finanzminister. As the debate on the urgent request has just been drawn up for today's sitting, this brief debate on Mrs Haller's request will take place following the debate on the urgent request. Notice of applications for the setting up of committees of inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e4714	Furthermore, in accordance with § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure requested the establishment of an investigative committee to examine the responsibility of members of the Federal Government in connection with the Kurds. It is also the one of five delegates according to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure proposed that a debate be held on this request. The rules of procedure shall be followed by debate and vote after completion of the agenda. Furthermore, Mrs. Dr. Schmidt has – also according to § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure – calls for an investigation committee to investigate the political responsibility of the Federal Government in connection with the investigation of the Kurds. Also here lies according to § 33 para. 2 the desire to hold a debate. According to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, debate and vote shall also take place after completion of the agenda and, in particular, after examination of the request for the setting up of a committee of inquiry by Mr Anschober. Apart from the 24 hour period
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e4751	In order to be able to negotiate items 10 to 13 of today's agenda, it is necessary to distance itself from the 24-hour deadline by a majority of two-thirds. Points 10 to 13 are the report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the Government Template (608 of the Supplements): Immission Protection Act, the report of the Environment Committee on the Government Template (583 of the Supplements): Protocol on the accession of the Principality of Monaco to the Convention on the Protection of the Alps, and on the reports of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on Amendment No 34/A (E) by Mr Aumayr and Mr Comrades on the regulation on packaging and motion 36/A (E) of Members of the Aumayr and Co-operatives concerning the revision of the Law on Old Load Rehabilitation. We are therefore voting on the possibility that these proposals will be withdrawn from the 24 hour deadline. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to a derogation from the deadline. – This is accepted with the required two-thirds majority. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e4792	I have the proposal to hold a joint debate on points 1 to 6, 8 and 9 and 10 to 13 of the agenda. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. Then the debates on points 1 to 6, 8 and 9 as well as 10 to 13 will be summarized. I shall now go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e4820	In the presidential conference, consensus was reached on the duration of the debates as follows: A day-block speaking time of 8 "Vienna hours" has been agreed, resulting in the following speaking times: SPÖ 120, FPÖ 104, ÖVP 112, Liberal Forum and Greens per 72 minutes. The Hoge Haus has to be on top of that. Is there any objections to this proposal? - That's not the case. Then the day block time is set in such a way. 1. Point Report of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on the Government template (580 of the Supplements): Federal Law on the Approval of Seeds, the authorisation of Seeds and the placing on the market of Seeds and the authorisation of Variety (Law 1997 – Seeds 1997); Federal Act amending the Variety Protection Act and Federal Act amending the Introductory Act on Administrative Procedures 1991 – EGVG (671 of Supplements) 2. Point Report of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on the Government template (563 of the Supplements): Plant protection legislation 1997 (673 of the supplements) 3rd. Point Report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on Amendment No 384/A (E) by Mr Andreas Wablund Co-operatives on the processing and marketing of original agricultural production (676 of the Supplements) 4. Point Report of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on Amendment No 357/A (E) by Mrs Ing. Mathias Reichholdand comrades concerning the national increase in the EU-BSE compensation (677 of the supplements) 5. Point Report of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on Amendment 359/A (E) by Mrs Ing. Mathias Reichholdand comrades concerning early marketing premium (678 of supplements) 6. Point Report of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on Amendment No 278/A (E) by Mrs Ing. Mathias Reichholdand comrades on measures to combat agricultural emigration (679 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e4929	We now come to points 1 to 6 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. I have the message that Mr Kampichler, in his capacity as rapporteur, wishes to present a print error correction. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e4947	Mr President. Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The reports of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry shall be submitted in writing to you. On the Committee's report 676 of the Supplements, I would like to point out that: In the Committee's distributed report, the rate "In the vote, the motion for a resolution in question did not receive the approval of the majority of the Committee." to be removed. On behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, I would therefore like to make the request that the National Council take note of this final report, taking into account the pressure error correction I have just presented.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e4972	I would like to thank the rapporteur. Are there any further requests for reporting? – That is obviously not the case. Then I call Mr Ing as the first speaker. Reichhold. The voluntary speaking time is set to 10 minutes. Is that right? [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Maybe I need a little longer!]] Then I'll leave it with the 20 minutes, and it's up to you to see how much of it you use. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e5001	Mr President. High house! At the beginning, it's a good thing: Federal Minister Molterer! You have a birthday today, and I can wish you all the best, a lot of health and in the future also more success in the agricultural policy! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] High house! The Minister will need a great deal of strength, even on his birthday, because today's convoy, which we have to decide, has also been launched in the Committee, Mr President, with a real act of strength. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schwarzenberger]] In the presence of the President, I would like to protest against how the meetings are handled in the Committee on Agriculture. At the last moment, the agendas are being amended, extensive government documents are being put on the table and, in part, major amendments are being tabled during the debate in the Committee. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Also from the liberals! To this end, the Committee is aware that amendments can be tabled and dealt with.]] Mr Schwarzenberger, you must admit that the Committee's work in these circumstances is not serious. That is why we have left the Committee on Plant Protection during the decision-making process and during the debate on the Plant Protection Act in order to make our protest known, too, because it is impossible for us to study in detail in such a short term the extensive legislative instruments. Now to the Seeds Act and by-laws: The whole work is clearly divided, but the content is negative. Already in 1993, the Coalition celebrated the then novel on the Plant Variety and Plant Variety Law as a century reform, as an entry ticket to the European Economic Area and to the European Union. Four years later, the new innovation is based on the following – quote –: "Because the legislation in force is insufficient, outdated, cost-intensive and far-reaching, non-EU compliance." – Dear to me Ladies and gentlemen! Not much remains of the 1993 century reform. At the time, the liberals had already criticized the novels as an anti-farm because there was a considerable bureaucratic difficulty for small breeders to create entry into recognition. The Group dominates, and with the law now before the decision-making process, this trend will undoubtedly be even stronger. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Even then, the coalition wanted to remove the right to exchange agricultural seeds without replacement. It was not until the last moment that this passus was re-extended by the vigilance, not least by the liberal Members. Seed reproduction is deeply rooted in the agricultural tradition. The best spots on a field have always been reserved to use them for reconstruction or mutual exchange. This corresponds to the tradition of rural thinking, which was something holy, which was inherited from generation to generation. This is supposed to end, because now the big corporations have their hands on it. Even this time's correction in the law is only half, so there will be a joint amendment by the Greens and the Liberals on this issue. Federal Minister! Unfortunately, we must note that the long breath of breeding lobbies reaches your office, otherwise you would not have been able to present such a draft to Parliament. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The authorisation of varieties is still more bureaucratic, even more complex and centralized in the Federal Republic of Germany. A very complex authorisation procedure will be introduced. The novelized breeding books and catalogues of varieties three years ago actually only have more museum value. They will be abolished for 20 years, but the varieties contained therein are allowed only more than four years after the entry into force of the Federal Act. And then what's going on? – Then the EU seed regime comes: EU approved varieties, EU registration, EU marking, EU patents, fee schemes, licence requirements. The European Union is also completely sweeping national legislation in this area. Federal Minister! This new seed law will only be the driving force for the implementation of European law in the future. Our Parliament has nothing more to say, especially since you, as Minister, also have the power of regulation. The countries too express massive concerns and want to object to this law. I quote from the opinion of the Office of the Carinthian Government and the Constitutional Service that: "It is likely to be considered constitutional if the entry into force of a constitutional provision is made conditional on the adoption of a regulation. This would make Parliament's action dependent on the initiative of an executive body." This is the parliamentary reality after accession to the EU: a Parliament which – as we have heard in the debates today – is being decomposed. The cartel of the secretaries relocates all the investigations outside of this house, and this moves like a red thread through all the laws we have to decide here. [[Abg. Haigermoser: A red and black knit has become out of it!]] This is a real democratic problem for me. In terms of content, too, this seed law is difficult to criticise by the federal states – for example, Tyrol – who naturally have legitimate concerns that their regional interests, which they have so far seen, will no longer be fully broken down in this area. In addition, farmers should be asked to pay more for the cash, and the reduction of the additional costs on farmers is pre-programmed. The previous fees resulted in revenue of 2.4 million schillings per year. Now revenue of 36 million schilling is to be raised. This means a fifteen-fold increase in the fees, and you can calculate who will pay the additional costs: certainly not the breeder or the breeder associations, but of course these costs will also be transferred over the prices to the farmers. The current execution costs are also to be reduced from 77 million to 72 million schilling, as I read in the explanations. Only I ask you, Mr Federal Minister, how you want to achieve this if you have to include 14 federal officials at the same time in order to meet the necessary requirements in the seed recognition authority. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! In the amendment of the coalition, "farmer rights are guaranteed" – it is written there. In fact, at the last moment – I mentioned it – you took out the exchange of seed among farmers. But to say that farmers' rights are guaranteed, where they are only a very small area, which is not of great relevance to agriculture itself – it is only a supportable action for the many idealists who secure genetic material in this area – I think it is over. Farmers' rights are not guaranteed in this case. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] We have under § 28 para. 1 of this amendment also found that you leave a loophole open for genetically modified seed. Under the title "Authorisation of experimental seed" it is possible to circumvent the previous exemption provision, because you, Mr. Federal Minister, have in the future also the regulatory authority in this area. This brings me to the point that moves us all the most, and that is the labelling of genetically modified seeds. 90 percent of consumers are opposed to the use of genetic engineering in agriculture. A overwhelming majority of farmers reject the use of genetic engineering in agriculture. Over 1 million people have signed the popular desire. You, Federal Minister, are preaching the Öko-Land Austria, and what is happening in this law? – They have not even achieved the minimum level of what must be required in view of the opinion of the Austrian population, namely the labelling of genetically modified seeds. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] While they have envisaged in a resolution that in autumn there will be a draft – no law, a draft – according to which EU legislation should appear in the list of varieties, which seed has been modified and which is not. As has been said, it is a draft, and our research has shown that the EU legal requirements will not be fulfilled this year, because the Novel-Sead Regulation is still a long way off and is not clear whether or not mandatory labelling of the seed will be possible at European level, because – and this is no secret – the interests of the lobbys also stand in the foreground in Brussels and I believe that the chances of this motion for a resolution are zero. It is, therefore, just a game of calm for the 1.2 million people who have signed this popular desire, a game of calming down for the consumers who want this resolution to ensure that it is also labeled. We liberals have tabled an amendment. In this amendment, we request in § 15 para. 1 Z7) that the chemical and/or biological treatment, the treatment with ionising rays, is to be characterized by the genetic modification of the seed. If you take popular desire seriously, you have the opportunity to support this request today. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In summary, I would like to say: It is a law that, contrary to your demands, is bureaucratic, but hostile to federalism, a law that is constitutionally questionable and will be a further step for me towards the demise of Parliament. It is an EU diktat, which will prefer multinational corporations, but which continues to drive farmers into dependence, a genetic engineering label that is in fact not, but rather a blow to the face of all those who have supported and signed the popular desire. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I now come to a second important legislative matter, to change the government proposal to the Plant Protection Act 1997. In addition to the fact that I think that this law, Mr Schwarzenberger, is really undemocratic, we also have serious concerns in terms of content after in-depth study. In § 26 para. For example, in the case of genetic releases, non-authorised plant protection products are also applicable, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ. I don't know if you know if you've looked at it so closely. This is a circumvention of the current situation, and I believe that the law alone cannot be supported because of this paragraph. This Act also provides for an extension of the duration of the authorisation of old active substances. Perhaps you can explain to me, Mr Federal Minister, what exactly is meant by that. § 10 in conjunction with § 2 paragraph 16 shows that plant protection products with old active substances are used until 26. will be allowed on July of the year 2003. So everything before the 26th. Any Member State of the European Union shall apply until 2003 if it has been authorised in any Member State of the European Union. According to this bill – it may be that it is different, Mr Federal Minister will explain it; it is obviously an EU-dictate – Austria has to submit to the standards of the European Union, and I wonder what we have had endless debates in this House about the Atrazin ban if old active substances are to be reintroduced again. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Even the desire for a direct import, as some farmers may think in the back of the head, is not allowed in this law. Direct import from third countries is not possible, which in itself has been a good incentive for many farmers and also one of the few benefits that the EU would have offered to be able to compete with competitors abroad, because § 2(1) Paragraph 10 in conjunction with § 4 is quite clear that only companies or only companies are allowed to import such funds in a very bureaucratic way. That is, a direct import is not possible – apparently a kneefall towards the Raiffeisenverband, which is doing beautiful business there. As far as I know, almost all the Presidents of the Chambers of Agriculture also sit in the Boards of Directors of the Raiffeisen Organisation by statute. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Your father was also a raiffeisen...!]] Yeah, but he wouldn't have carried that. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Because of the extensive matter and the short time available to us, I can only strip the requests that are still to be discussed. I am concerned about a request that we made a long time ago, namely about the doubling of the BSE compensation premium. We call on the national share of the BSE compensation premium that the European Union has already paid to finally pay. We have tabled this proposal in the light of the very deep crisis facing the Austrian cattle industry. I have listened very carefully to Mr Willibald Sauer's statement, which, when he was in Carinthia, will certainly have heard the mood there, how difficult it is now for the cattle-keeping farms. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sauer.]] Yeah, the breeding event. But the cattle holdings are – and you will give me the right – with the back on the wall, the prices for cattle are in the basement across Europe – not by the Austrian farmers, but by the British who caused the BSE crisis by feeding animal meal. We demand that the amounts already paid by the European Union be doubled. This is a possibility that the European Union has left to the Austrian Government. Financing cannot be a question for us, because the European Union has reimbursed us 2.6 billion shillings of special payments under the title of the environmental programme. Of these 2.6 billion schillings, however, the Minister of Finance has now inserted 1.56 billion schillings, i.e. 60 percent, in order to clean up the budget and thus reach the Maastricht criteria. Mr Schwarzböck! Before the last National Council election in a demonstration to which 15 000 farmers have come to Vienna, you have called for these funds together, and now they are gone. I wonder why you're not demonstrating again? For what was this demonstration actually good if now the money available to the farmers is used by the Minister of Finance for the budget. These are the funds we demand for the peasantry! In many countries in Europe, for example in France, these EU premiums have been doubled by national means and, of course, the lack of this doubling in Austria is a competitive disadvantage for Austrian agriculture. That is why we have tabled this request, and I call on everyone to support this request in the interests of Austrian cattle farmers, also in view of the fact that refunds from the European Union are now being reduced retroactively by 5 per cent, thus reconciling many hope markets that have been built, such as Croatia. [[Complaints with the liberals]] This has been a good thing, but the reduction in refunds on the part of the European Union has, of course, also made a competitive disadvantage for Austrian agriculture, especially for farmers. I have already mentioned the early marketing premium. The Dutch calves may become 134 kilograms hard, the Austrian only 82 kilograms – another competitive disadvantage that can be renegotiated. Last point: Retirement in agriculture. 10 000 jobs in agriculture are rationalised annually, and these will, of course, be missing in rural areas. According to a survey, 40 percent of farmers no longer want to work in agriculture. Mr President. I come to the conclusion. It is a voluntary time limit.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e5151	Mr deputies, the 20 minutes speaking time, which is maximum available in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, has expired. I would ask for your conclusion.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e5166	I see, I'm wrong. Federal Minister! You have no visions, you go home with four points, but they are very general. We call for the constitutional security of EU funds guaranteed in the European Treaty.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e5196	The amendment, by Mr Ing. Reichhold is sufficiently supported and is included in the negotiations. The amendment reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] The next speaker is Mr Schwarzböck. Voluntary time limit: 15 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e5249	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The congratulations of my previous speaker, Mr Reichhold, to the Federal Minister for his birthday today was in the way he was presented, and of the content was symbolic of the basic position of the FPÖ in politics, also in agricultural policy. He was suffocating, he was double-bedded, and you can only shake your head if you see that even congratulations are used to transport this kind of policy. I believe that most of the Austrians prefer another political culture, more style. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The present Seed Act and the Plant Protection Act under discussion constitute another part of a necessary EU legislative adjustment, which is limited by the beginning of July. It is a pleasure that, after in-depth discussions today, we can decide on a number of laws which will help us to develop internal market rules which, in the end, will enable us to live up to the single market even more effectively. Of course, within the framework of these EU adaptations, discussions are also justified on the question of where we stand with our national objectives in agricultural policy and economic policy. Although the Plant Protection Act has made further progress, I believe that, from the point of view of functioning internal market rules in the field of plant protection products law, such broad multi-competences as they continue to apply under this Plant Protection Act must naturally lead to delays, and it is clear that the vision must exist not only in the functioning of the internal market, but also in the implementation of high consumer protection and health standards, that European recognition of the highest health standards and levels of consumer protection must be the real objective of our political efforts. Mr Reichhold! They demand direct import. In your remarks, they have overshadowed themselves in such a way and contradicted the fact that it is almost no longer necessary to deal with it. They criticise the continued extension of the duration of the authorisation of old active substances, and minutes later you complain that no direct imports from neighbouring countries from the internal market are possible in Austria. This is such a blatant contradiction that there is nothing to say about it. Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased that the Minister for Agriculture has succeeded in persuading the Minister for Health and Consumer Protection and the Minister for the Environment, that it is useful that in countries with which there are administrative agreements, there should be no double examinations and that simplifications can be carried out, which will also help us to reach a much faster level of modern, ecologically oriented plant protection products. The path leads to more environmentally friendly, more valuable, more ecologically interesting plant protection products, and we must be interested in Austrian agriculture, both in policy and in the interests of consumers, that we can also use more ecological plant protection products from countries with a very high and comparable standard, such as the Federal Republic of Germany, as soon as possible in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! Those who believe that we need a huge degree of safety against developments in Germany in consumer protection or health protection are invited to look at the resources of investigation authorities and audit authorities there or to know the control bodies in German industrial enterprises. I had the opportunity to visit the Monheim Research and Control Institute at Bayer Leverkusen years ago, and I have to say that I would wish for many Austrian universities such financial possibilities as they exist there. It is also quite easy to see larger relations in large economic areas, and if huge German industrial companies with double-digit billions in this field research and investigation and the German administration and administration, with their huge financial resources, go beyond these possibilities of industry, to think that a special examination of all these regulations would lead to new insights in Austria, is a bold claim. I am of course also of the opinion that, where it makes sense to use the national scope, we should do so, but to invent wheels that have been running for years, with the realization that, basically, no changes are necessary from an Austrian point of view, is a process which slows down the path to ecologically more interesting plant protection products and which is rather counterproductive. I am convinced that representatives of the Green Group will have a different attitude in this respect; I have also discussed the seed law with Mr Wabl in committee. I am sorry that social policy issues are always raised on possible ecological progress. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wabl.]] We also feel this in the field of animal welfare, Mr Wabl. For me, it was shocking that, on matters of freedom of punishment for advertising in the area of sexual practices with animals, Mrs Petrovic, liberalized access to this legal matter through the idea of animal protection. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Wabl.]] I also note in this case: As regards both the Seeds Act and the Plant Protection Act, in the discussion within the Committee on Social Policy Radical Change Trends, all the short-term ecological benefits that we could achieve together in a consensus and would lead to much faster. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is also not surprising that in the negotiations on the Seed Law, a massive attempt has been made to fully imply the sensitized discussion on genetic engineering, and on the application or prevention of genetic engineering in Austria, and it has been expected that we will discuss the necessary developments within the framework of the Seed Act less than the question of whether genetic engineering is prevented or supported in Austria. From the viewpoint of the government parties, we have tabled a very clearly formulated motion for a resolution – in agreement with the Federal Minister of Agriculture – which the Minister of Agriculture may make public as soon as possible in the framework of the Seed Law in the list of varieties of genetically modified varieties. Mr Reichhold! It is logical that if, in Austria, awareness-raising is the way you presented it – and I give you the right – only the publication would suffice that all opponents of genetic engineering... [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: The motion for a resolution is a Wiener Schmäh!]] Excuse me, if even the Federal Minister in the Committee expresses personal interest and promises on his own that he will do everything he can to take account of this motion for a resolution, then a discussion, a public campaign will be held at any time if there are varieties that have been genetically modified. But why did we go this way? – Because we are keen to implement the Novel-Sead Regulation, a European label for genetically modified seed, as soon as possible. However, if you appear on the one hand for debureaucratisation and simplification and on the other hand demand Austrian intermediate steps for two, three months, which would basically only lead to an uncertainty, then it is clear what it is really about you – not about a material debate, but about uncertainty. Ladies and gentlemen! The Minister will make the publication of genetically modified varieties in the list of varieties in the coming weeks and months, I hope, by autumn at the latest. There will be no seed trade until autumn, because the next larger cultivation will take place at the earliest end of August, early September, and until then, hopefully, the Minister has acted in good time. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Aumayr]] Perhaps, in the meantime, the Novel-Sea regulation has also been implemented across Europe, which I would be pleased to see. [[Abg. Aumayr: We don't want any genetically modified seeds at all!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I should also like to point out that Mr Reichhold meant that the present seed law would not contain federalism. There too I must say: You focus on how you need it. In the seed law you want federalism, in animal welfare law you are vehement for a federal competence, but basically you are about to point out where polls or other clues determine a majority of the population. The truth has rarely plagued you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Long before We have already called for the same thing to be done here. We are in talks and negotiations, including as a representative of interests, with the Minister of Agriculture and with the Minister of Finance. They asked why I demonstrated as a representative of interest in December 1995 to ensure EU funding and not now for national BSE compensation. There's only one answer to that: There's a big difference: At that time there was a hard discussion in the government because the SPÖ was not ready for negotiation, even called into question promised solutions. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: National Council election!]] We are now negotiating with the Minister of Finance, and while you are setting up verbal demands here, we are ensuring that there is a national BSE balance. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] This has been the way of success so far, and that will continue to be the way of success. I can assure you now that, of course, as a farmer's representative, but also as a member of the ÖVP, I will again be taking up the right of demonstration if legitimate demands are rejected or one is not prepared to hold talks. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: If there are no more cattle farmers!]] A government, especially a coalition government, basically lives by the fact that things are being further developed in negotiations and discussions, and a government would be ad absurd if the discussions were held in permanent demonstrations. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: At the next National Council election we will see you again at Ballhausplatz!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am very glad that we can today, with a number of legislative decisions, continue to develop the process of establishing the internal market, while maintaining very high national standards, because we are currently registering fears in the economic policy debate in many sections of the population. It is feared that, in the world of liberal competition, there may be a need for regulations in Austria to be more difficult. The best way to secure Austrian politics as a member of the EU in the internal market is to make Europe more Austrian with an Austrian policy and then to make the world European together as Europeans. You should be in there, and there we would have a lot to do. These laws are an essential step in this direction. I hope that in the end we will be able to transport further very high standards to the European Union and make them more Austrian in Europe.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e5392	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Peter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e5414	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have today the honour of being able to represent Mr Barmüller, who has been reported as preventing, and I am now allowed to express the liberal position on the legislative instruments under consideration. The statements by my previous speaker, Schwarzböck, were very interesting, especially his perspective on bringing Austrian policy into the European Union. I like this idea. I also think it is better to be active than to fear actions. As far as the seed law itself is concerned, we are concerned that, although the new varieties and high-quality seeds are very likely to be included in the law as a goal, the diversity of species and historical varieties are not actually a goal in it. The development will certainly go in the direction of the new varieties, but yet the biodiversity – ultimately as a genre reservoir – should be preserved. We regret that this was not formulated in the law as a goal. I do not understand why a Federal Office and research centre for agriculture still have to be an office, Mr Federal Minister. This is a classic area, which could be separated in the sense of an outsourcing and led outside your ministry in the sense of private administration. When is privatized in this direction? This is because additional tasks are carried out and staff are employed for this purpose. I think you should check it out. To some extent I consider the way in which you are dealing with the constitutional question. I can read something from the explanations. There is literally: "The exclusive involvement of the agricultural chambers with enforcement tasks appears to be unconstitutional with regard to the Constitutional Court knowledge of 1963." – That is to say, there is a knowledge of the Constitutional Court, which clearly normizes that enforcement in the Chamber of Agriculture does not correspond to the Constitution. [[Federal Minister Mag. Molterer: Exclusive!]] Yeah, just, right. It also says: "A constitutional provision is therefore intended to allow the agricultural chambers to be involved in certain sections of the first instance procedure for the implementation of the Law on Seeds in 1997." . So you need a change in the federal constitution in order to be able to implement this seed law. That's the point, please. They then write in § 39 para. 4 in fact a constitutional provision so that you really need to change the constitution in order to be able to implement the seed law. This is a topic, Mr Federal Minister, on which the Liberals will ride and stay on for so long, as long as it goes! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] In § 39 para. 4 it says: (Constitutional provision): The Federal Minister for Agriculture and Forestry may, by means of a regulation, establish that for the implementation of individual parts...". – That is to say, this constitutional provision will not enter into force until the Federal Minister has adopted a regulation. What this has to do with the rule of law in a civilized state I do not understand. When it comes to entry into force: "This federal law enters into force with 1. In June. § 39 para. 4", on the subject of the constitutional provision, "is with the adoption of a regulation, but at the latest with 1. In July 1998." – In other words, the Federal Minister has the power to make a constitutional provision or not to enter into force by means of a regulation. Federal Minister! I think this is a bad political culture, especially a culture that is not constitutionally in order. We will therefore also reject the seed law. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] We also regret, in spite of all the positive attitude to genetic engineering research and development, that this draft does not contain any labelling rules for genetically modified seeds. The Liberal Group will not vote in favour of the Plant Protection Act in its present form. In essence, we believe that it would really be necessary to discuss and review it, in all its commitment to the European Union, as other European countries do with the authorisation of plant protection products. We have some concerns which have also articulated Barmüller in committee accordingly. Mr Wabl's request, which is also for discussion, is assigned to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. This is about the original agricultural production. Mr Wabl, we will continue to discuss this in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Until a few years ago, agriculture, whether good or bad, has not been studied, has essentially understood itself as a production plant, i.e. a half company, a company that only worked in production and where the marketing function was delegated. If an agricultural undertaking goes from original production to food production and distribution, it is of course considered a commercial undertaking and is to be equal to it. Therefore, in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, we have tabled a request for a complete change in the trade regulations, in order to ensure that farmers are able to use a simple application procedure, with a simple liability insurance that costs little – almost nothing – in order to ensure that other protection provisions outside the trade regulations do not guarantee the safety of consumers, and then, of course, obey the same rules as a small butcher or a small trader. Farmers will have to learn that they are entrepreneurs. Welcome, farmers, to the enterprise stand! Above all, you have become entrepreneurs who perform both functions on the market: Production and distribution and marketing. [[Abg. Wabl: If there is a simplified business order, yes!]] I hope that in this sense we will discuss your proposal in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, and we understand that simplification of the rules of commerce is the prerequisite for real deregulation, for a genuine production and trade function – where the consumer wishes, and not where it holds an obsolete policy. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Three applications were submitted by the liberals. I would particularly like to refer to Mr Ing's request. Reichhold. It concerns measures to combat agricultural emigration. Ing. Reichhold formulates in it literally: "The Federal Government is urgently urged to guarantee all people working in agriculture and forestry in Austria a fair wage and social security." Mathias Reichhold, what's a fair wage? – Either the farmers are entrepreneurs, and if they are entrepreneurs, their fair reward is the profit they make. The profit they make depends on how low they keep their costs and how high their revenues are. I don't think of words like "right pay." There's no fair reward. Who's gonna find out? Does the National Council decide on the fair wage of agriculture? [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: We are 60 percent below the average wage of an industrial worker!]] It may be. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: If you want everything to migrate...!]] I am very much in favour of paying the farmers their positive external effects which they give to society – where they are there. But I do not think that the farmers are exclusively environmentalists. Farmers in the Parndorf plain with 100 acres of fields, where all the field trains have been cut down, are certainly not environmentalists, but rather environmental devastation. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: It's not about us either!]] But there are very many farmers, especially the horndl farmers in the mountain areas, who have a very important ecological function in the rural area. I would like to point out one more point, Mathias Reichhold: The demand for a fair remuneration is, please, a zero formulation, a formulation which does not state what it is all about, and which, above all, forgets that the farmer is an entrepreneur. [[Abg. Wabl: That's not true!]] He is a self-employed person and not a state employee – but in your resolution he is talking about a business location. I think we should change the conditions of the farmers so that farmers can obtain income and profit from their work. I consider the demand for a fair wage to be maximum populism. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e5538	The next speaker is Mr Deputie Gradwelt. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e5559	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! The most discussed and negotiated legal measures – and my previous speakers have already done so – are mainly EU legislative adjustments or necessary steps to comply with EU law. However, I cannot ignore a number of comments made by my previous speakers, from the point of view of the Socialist Group. President Schwarzböck said here that in 1995 the Austrian People's Party's Coalition Party, both then and now, did not agree. I would like to correct this claim in my speech. Mr Schwarzböck! At the time, as is the case today, the Social Democratic Group is standing on the EU's agricultural agreements. It did not meet the core you were referring to at the time, but it was an action which, in your view, seemed necessary in the course of the election campaign. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Today you are again in the coalitionary marriage bed!]] Mr Reichhold! Whoever is married to is responsible for those who marry, and since I do not believe that you have any assistance in any form, I do not want to give advice to those who may now appear. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: I'll stay empty!]] Mr Reichhold, in a way I do not understand your argument here at the speaker's desk: On the one hand, the Freedom Party is vehement and very massively opposed to the distribution of subsidies, that subsidies are granted at all, that the public sector grants subsidies, on the other hand, you are calling for a doubling of certain subsidies and a constitutional fixation of income situations for a professional group. I ask you: What about the other professional groups? . I do not know how you would behave when it came to carrying out constitutional income assurances for workers in the various sectors. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: But that has not been promised!]] Mr Reichhold! Populism is not forbidden, but the factual discussion is not appropriate. Another point raised by you, Mr Reichhold, concerns the legal basis of genetic technology. I can say here for my group: From the point of view of consumer protection, we would, of course, be much preferable to further labelling, even from the point of view of farmers, but this motion for a resolution, which was adopted in the Committee, is a first important step. [[Abg. Aumayr: You would just have to agree to that!]] I do not think it would be good for us to go to the Committee on Agriculture and pre-judicate the whole of the House, although we know that there should be a special committee to set up a subcommittee of the Committee on Health which will deal with and deal with this matter. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Weak statement!]] The rules that will be applied as a result of the results of the negotiations will also apply to the Committee on Agriculture and thus to us. [[Abg. Leikam: Good man, the grade good!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We as the Socialist Group, like the Committee, are going to agree to these legal provisions and measures, even though, as has been said, we would have liked to have enlargements or strengthened measures in some respects. We are confident that, in those areas where we wish for more, negotiations – through objective negotiations, Mr Reichhold – will improve the situation.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e5675	The next speaker is Mr Wabl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e5696	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, Mr Schwarzböck is not here. [[Abg. Steibl: He's listening!]] He's listening. He can listen without a noise attack. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Reichhold has already referred to what political culture or unculture looks like in the Committee on Agriculture. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Much better than in the Court of Auditors!]] We have never used the Rules of Procedure so brutally, the opposition suffocating, the opposition waiting. We've never started there as untimely as you do regularly. You start when your people come in. That is not what I know in other committees, Mr President. [[Abg. Aumayr: Yes!]] You also said at the last committee meeting: Should we start? There's already a half hour gone! And then the President says: We still have a small law, the phytosanitary law!, and act according to the motto: We need a two-thirds majority to do this, but we are lucky. What interest do we have in the opposition? What interest do we have in political culture? In the last few weeks and months, we've done everything in the last few weeks and months. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: You have not even been present at your own request!]] We have the Committee on the Court of Auditors, we have agreed to the Committee on Inquiry, we have reduced all the rights of interaction to zero by spreading untruths here. What do we need in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development? What for? We have the constitutional two-thirds majority, we can do what we want! And we do that too, we use it and we abuse it too! – That’s your policy! I know that all of this is quite indifferent to you. You will only one day overlook the tipping point, Mr Schwarzenberger. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: You have not even been present at your own request!]] They were then crawled into crosses to carry out your public transport. That's where the opposition people were pleasant and right. I even had an appointment with the Minister at night, only so that it can be negotiated. There's no longer any such dates. There are no more dates in this way at all, because you determine when is spoken and when not spoken. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Why are you yelling like this?]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Why have you not even been present at your own request?]] The only call I can now accept is Mr Ofner. You're right. I have a speaker here, I always forget. Thank you for your suggestion. I'm going to be moderate. [[Abg. Leikam: This is excitement of public trouble!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Minister has a birthday today. I personally think he's a decent person. However, I have arrived at the strange sentence of Mr Schwarzböck, who said that the Greens are asking social policy questions on environmental issues. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: That's true too!]] Mr Schwarzböck and Mr Schwarzenberger, colleagues from the Blacks! I have never believed, Mr Schwarzenberger, that you are reducing biodiversity because you are a bad person. I have never believed that animals are tormented on Austrian roads because you are quite a dark inside your heart, a darkling. I have never believed that the corn beetles and the butterflies and the female beetles and all the other insects are malignantly expressed by you on the fields by hand or finger, because you are such a sadist. I never believed that. I have always known that the socio-political context is that it concerns interests, power struggles – and that is the crucial point: The Greens think networked, and that's why they also see socio-political connections! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I believe that many things are interchangeable. You're not a napkin, Mr. Schwarzenberger, you're just wrong. That's the problem! [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Well!]] Excuse me, Mr. Ofner, I've been loud again. But one thing I would like to say to you: You read here and you're the only one here that hits my volume. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: I read the answer to a request you have sent to the Minister!]] That's very important. But I thought that you would listen to me a little bit to my social policy statements. But it doesn't matter that you're interested in other things, that's all right. I don't mind you reading here, but you're bothering me when I talk too loud. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: If you tell me that the request was not important, I'll throw it away!]] That's wonderful what you read! Keep going. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Schwarzenberger! Mr. Rudolf Schwarzböck is now finally back. He was obviously in the middle of his heart that he had been voted for the abolition of the ban on sodomie. Ladies and gentlemen, in a culture... [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: That wasn't very nice! We reject fornication with animals!]] Mr Schwarzböck! Save me from philosophering what it means that someone like you defends a law that has never been condemned in the Republic of Austria. That's dead right! And this makes you an ideology issue, a social policy issue. Mr Schwarzböck! That's what we're going to do. [[Abg. Schwarzböck: Mrs Petrovic says quite different things about this!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Now I come to the most important issue, the Seed Law. Mr Reichhold has already noted how strange it is that In connection with the Seeds Act, you are very likely to be in favour of marking the seed in the future if it is chemically or biologically modified, but you were not prepared to agree to a Greens' legislative proposal, a Greens' amendment proposal, which calls for the seed to be marked even if it is genetically modified. Collaborative Members of the Social Democrats, who are not necessarily an agricultural expert, but who, in my opinion, understands that, if the chemical change has to be marked, also the genetic change must be marked, said: Please, why don't we take this? – And then, wordfully, it was defended why you can't do that. Ladies and gentlemen! You then made a very windy and very wide-ranging motion for a resolution - I have once heard from an RDP minister what is to be said of motions for resolutions - in which you say that you will be introducing a bill in this case in the autumn, because it will not be necessary until then. This kind of excuse, this inability and that estuary that you are doing here is last-class! Mr Schwarzböck, please do not come back to me with your social policy and ecological contradictions by saying that the Greens prefer this and that it is social-political interests that play a role. You know exactly what you owe to the industry, to those who lobby with you. That is the problem! That is why the ecological question is going on, not because you do not want it, because you are not as green in your heart, but because you are in other social constraints and because the Minister has already lobbyed and said: That, please, will not come into question, we will not allow that! There can be two million people from Austria who are not interested in this! We have other interests to represent! – This is really the problem why ecological issues do not go on! [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Freemans.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The question today is no less and no more than whether the rights of agriculture, farmers and farmers are strengthened or whether the rights of the agricultural industry are cemented and strengthened. Between these two possibilities we have to decide once again today. Mr Schwarzböck! You have not with all determination represented the rights of farmers, and you can also certify that to your minister. They have – and this must be said – partly due to the political pressure that has come from the environmental movement and from the greens and other areas, at least the farmers' privilege... – Mr Schwarzböck, there has been pressure for months. [[Abg. Schwarzböck: That was already months ago in the opinion of...!]] It was not included in the bill, and you had to change it because of the pressure of the environmental movement. - I know that's clear: You always change it when the Lord gives it to you directly – or raiffeisen. Ladies and gentlemen! This question will be decided today, and I wonder how Mr Doppelmüller and Mr Gradwelt and the other Social Democrats will decide when it comes to whether the organic farmer, the organic farmer, when he or she buys seeds, can actually distinguish which seed it is. Mr Schwarzböck! If you assume that there is no security for the organic farmer or for the organic farmer, which seed he or she buys, then you will experience that there is a widespread uncertainty in this sector. This will destroy what has been laboriously built up in Austria in the last decades, an effortlessly developed success. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Organic farmers can buy feed only from organic farmers, and they have their own control system!]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: It's about seed!]] – Mr Schwarzenberger! If that's true, what you said now, I'll ask you: What, then, do we need the motion for a resolution? [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] What do you comfort the EU institutions if they are the same as you say? For what? - Ah! [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: The non-bio-farmers should also get such information!]] Non-bio-farmers should know exactly what has been genetically modified. And you are now taking care of this motion for a resolution. That's what I'm saying: I congratulate you! I hope you all believe that. Ladies and gentlemen! We have the problem that the seed of the earth, which for thousands of years has been bred by many farmers and has been optimised over and over again, is increasingly getting into the hands of fewer multis. But these are social issues! This does not happen because you are evil, not because you do not like the Ethiopian small farmers – you have never seen them – but because you see the multis that lie in your ears and tell you: We need patents on living creatures and animals! – Mr Schwarzböck, Mr Schwarzenberger, and Mr Schwarzenberger, you see this, but this is the problem, because the patenting of plants and animals means that the entire rural population is suffering from sluggish and growing expropriation. That's the problem! They note that thousands of plants disappear and only the multis keep the genres and seeds in their hands, and these possessions secure you with your laws. But we don't want to take that! Mr Schwarzenberger! I've already said it: This does not guarantee the safety of organic farming. You will again complain that you will certainly care for the popular desire and for those people who signed it, but you will not implement it. You will say: Yes, of course, we do everything, but we are not against science! – It's supposed to have been claimed by someone. I haven't heard from a popular operator who said he was against science, I didn't even hear anyone say he was against genetic engineering. Just call me one! That's not the case, that's just a wonderful propaganda. None of these people are opposed to science, none of these people are against genetic engineering in themselves, none of these people oppose the use of genetic engineering in certain areas of medicine. But you suggest there's a science hostility. They suggest that international research centres should be held there. Do you know what the only and clear demand is? – That there should not be this technology in the field of agriculture, because it entails a lot of disadvantages and risks, especially risks that we do not yet know. I have not known until recently, until a few years ago, that beef food can be life-threatening. But I also do not know many things in connection with genetic engineering, in connection with the seeds and with the plant modification. But why apply a technology whose risks are not yet known and for which there is no reason at all? If you explained to me that otherwise the famine would break out, I would say that this risk is less than the risk of letting many people die. But this argument is not at all right! This was all too often brought to the meeting, but it is not at all true! You have also argued today in connection with the Plant Protection Act, Mr Schwarzböck, which is why you want simplified provisions so that we can obtain more ecological or ecologically compatible plant protection products from other countries. If that were your intention, then we could take this path together. But that's not your intention, you're giving in to a pressure. Ladies and gentlemen! The heritage – and these are the seeds and biodiversity – belongs to all people, not only the multis and raiffeisen, Mr. Schwarzenberger. I and my group and the environmental movements and many social movements will fight for this expropriation not to take place. We must develop a whole new section, not a new patenting and a new one, as decided at the last GATT round. The last GATT round, the Uruguay Round, was another step towards safeguarding the acquis communautaire of the Multis. This was no further step towards securing the heritage of mankind and a more just distribution. In this way I come to Helmut Peter, who has polemised against the word 'just' in connection with the wages for farmers in the statements of Mr Reichhold. [[Abg. Mother: No, no!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The word 'just' has a deep meaning, and Mr Peter is right if he thinks that it is not as precise as he wants it to be as a businessman. But in a political debate, the question of what is just and what is not, is easy to answer. It is easy to measure and detect. If people who work in a particular area do not even find out what they are using, namely not even the coverage contribution, if they do not even get the money they use, then one can certainly assume that this is unfair. Of course, we can be of the opinion that we do not need our farmers at all. I've already talked to many people who said: We don't need farmers, we import everything! At a time when motorways and free movement and trade are so cheap and so cheap, we do not need farmers anymore! So what do we need the few farmers in Austria for? For landscape care – wonderful! – so that when the Bavarian and Italian tourists come, a few beautiful old, bearded men run around with pipe and old women and take care of the landscape with the sense? We may still need them for that, but not for the production of food! Ladies and gentlemen! If that is the background of your argumentation, then say it. But if you want there to be fair income in agricultural holdings, then we need to discuss what is just, rather than just polemizing against it. Unfortunately, the accusation of populism occurs too often. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] – This is probably the case with most parties, but too often with you! [[Abg. Aumayr: Go!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We need an identification of seeds. Minister Molterer! I just can't share your point of view, and I'm curious with what argument You will justify this forum because you have recommended to your group and to the government parties that we do not agree with the extension of this law. One has to imagine this: Three words: chemical, biological and – this is what we have added – genetically modified. The Minister said that the latter could not be taken in because the EU could want something else. – You have to imagine that! So far has it already come with the sovereignty of this House and this Republic! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The Minister can't put the third word "technical" on it! 1.2 million Austrians have signed, and the Minister cannot put the words "technically changed" in place! [[Abg. Aumayr: He doesn't want to!]] Ladies and gentlemen! This must be taken into account once! If I look away from everything else now, this will reduce the political weight of our house. [[Abg. Oellinger: The Ministers!]] We have also tabled a request for pesticides. Unfortunately, the Socialists and the ÖVP – the ecologists of the ÖVP – will not be able to go along with them – unfortunately, the liberals will not. This proposal represents a major contribution to environmental tax reform. We will demand that there be no patenting of plants and animals. We will be able to make it safer for consumers in the stores to access healthy food, that farmers will have an important stand, namely the field of seed reproduction and the trade in seeds, that biodiversity is preserved and that the reduction of dangerous food can be further driven forward. We will seek these solutions and not what the government is pushing ahead with today's small-minded and extremely modest. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e6069	The next speaker is Mr Mag. Molterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e6090	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We are dealing today with two important legal instruments relating to agriculture on two relevant issues, namely seed and plant protection products. It is true that both legislative instruments are crucial for the development and future of Austrian agriculture. It is clear to me that Austrian agriculture – farmers and farmers – is an offensive contribution to the fundamental strategy that Austria is applying in agricultural policy, namely that we are taking the issue of ecological orientation seriously, and that we do not want to do everything that is feasible in Austria, because not everything is feasible. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Axes]] Ladies and gentlemen! However, it is precisely as clear – and before this debate we cannot and must not press on – that Austrian agriculture, the Austrian farmers can only go this way, although the economic basis is right, because an ecological orientation alone, without the economic viability of Austrian agriculture, would not be a permanent orientation. Only if economic orientation is correct can the ecological objective be achieved. And precisely this is the purpose of these two legislative instruments. The Plant Protection Act is a further development of the plant protection product law currently in force and aims to bring about a reduction in the use of plant protection products over a five-year period – and not, as was claimed here, to extend the use of plant protection products. Ladies and gentlemen! It has obviously been forgotten that between 1991 and 1994, the Austrian farmers have already used 20 per cent less plant protection products, at a level which is already very deep internationally. And I say, Thank God! The aim is to continue to deal with less plant protection products in the future. At the same time, however, the aim is to allow plant protection products – because they are better on the market because modern and environmentally more compatible products are being developed – to be allowed faster. And the aim is to provide better plant protection products under economically acceptable conditions. That means fewer products, better products, but these under competitive conditions. That is the aim of the Plant Protection Act, ladies and gentlemen! [[I should like to congratulate Mr Achs and Mr Leikam on his work.]] I would also draw attention to the fact that this Plant Protection Act was also discussed with NGOs in broad passages. At the suggestion of the NGOs, the aim of this Plant Protection Act has been extended, and the question of reducing the use of plant protection products has also been discussed. There is one point on which we differ, namely the issue of the authorisation of plant protection products, which still need a procedure and which comes from countries where comparable conditions exist and with which there is an administrative agreement. This administrative agreement currently exists with a single country, namely Germany. No one can assume that it is being dealt with responsibly. In addition, we also have the provision that an authorisation procedure must be carried out, in order to check whether the conditions prescribed by Austria are also fulfilled. Mr Reichhold! Only a few clarifications: § 26 regulates the question of scientific research. In order to assess a plant protection product, whether it has a correct or false ecological effect, one has to make a scientific attempt. § 26 regulates – extremely limited – the question of the conditions under which such attempts can be made at all. To the section 10: § 10 referred to by you, the duration of the authorisation for individual active substances is reduced by the time limit for the year 2003. There are up to 10 years of authorisation in the current plant protection legislation. So it shortens the time limit; They claimed to extend it. If you read the law, you will even find in § 17 a regulatory authority that the Minister of Agriculture may prohibit active substances if they do not meet our approval criteria. I would draw attention to the fact that it was the Ministry of Agriculture under my leadership that led the ban on Atrazin again, at a time when the ban was lifted. That is to say, the Minister for Agriculture and the Department of Agriculture are seeking, in particular, to implement and enforce the ecological viability in the field of plant protection products. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The second legislative text we are dealing with here today: the Seed Law. This law regulates the placing on the market of and the authorisation criteria for seeds. We have – and I am glad about this – made the amendment not whether a divine inspiration or anything else, but from the realization that it is useful to create additional opportunities on the issue of neighbourhood aid and genetic resources. I can assure you, Mr Wabl: It is precisely those companies of which you are always saying that they have such great influence on us that this amendment is not exactly happy. Perhaps you are calming this and even more confirming the accuracy of this amendment. [[Abg. Leikam: You can't calm the Wabl!]] I am making a policy that is not aimed at these influences or at others, but that I think is right. And I am glad that this amendment has been tabled. I am also pleased that we have the motion for a resolution, ladies and gentlemen. For the sake of fairness and fairness, I would like to say clearly that this motion for a resolution consists of two parts. In the previous debate and also in the public debate, only the second part has been mentioned. In the first part, I am asked to make a label on the list of varieties and to make it clear whether they are genetically modified plants on the list of varieties. We are taking resolutions seriously. Mr Wabl! Ladies and gentlemen! Since yesterday, on the basis of this motion for a resolution, the Internet has made clear which varieties have been genetically modified in Austria. This information is publicly available and is made available to a wider public. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Wabl, Mr Schwarzenberger and Mr Aumayr.]] It can be seen that the varieties authorised in Austria and listed in the Austrian plant variety register have not been genetically modified. In addition, as the motion for a resolution provides, I will also present a draft on labelling. Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to tell you why I think this way is right: because we can now immediately define and say, on the basis of the motion for a resolution, which variety has not been modified from the list of varieties. This is important for farmers; for all farmers, including the organic farmers. Secondly, we can create a legal basis in line with the objective of comprehensive labelling of these products, a label that is prepared intensively at European level. They know that, because of the Austrian initiative and because of our advances in the European Union, the Commission has declared that it will improve labelling in four areas: First: It considers how a legal instrument is created, by which products already authorised before novel food can be subsequently incorporated into this labelling system – an important step so that there is no free space for an unmarked product rail. Secondly, The Union is working on the Novel-Sead marking, i.e. on the labelling of seed. Of course, in the Austrian Seeds Act, we will implement these measures, which the European Union sets out, in such a way as to satisfy the safety and the desire of, for example, organic farmers or others and to support them accordingly. Thirdly, There is the initiative of the Novel Feed label, i.e. the labelling of feed; not only the labelling of feed components, but also the labelling up to the compound feed. It is indeed relevant for farmers that it is indicated whether a feed is genetically modified or not. Fourth: There is the initiative of comprehensive labelling in the European Union by amending Directive 220/1990. I would not see it, there would be only a debate on the issue of feed or seeds, but no labelling if it were other products which are at least equally important for humans. The position of the Federal Government and my position in this area are clear: We want comprehensive labelling because it is important for people to know which products are actually present and which are not. The Ministry of Agriculture will continue to work intensively on this issue – beyond its marking – and deal with it. In the field of agriculture, for example, I am concerned that we have a major focus in the field of risk research and genetic technology. We have, for example, put together with the organic farmers a research focus on the issue of the cultivation of varieties for organic farming. It is more important to me to act than to find fine words here. We have taken the right steps in the field of agriculture. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, one more word of principle: As far as genetic engineering is concerned, I am right to say to Mr Wabl that there is a need for differentiated discussion that genetic engineering is quite undisputed, for example in medicine, to have positive effects on human health and healing. And Mr Wabl has rightly said that the question of genetic engineering in agriculture is to be considered with great concern because there are potential risks – that is why I am in favour of identifying these risks also in research. But it may also be that this technology, as in medicine, also has positive effects in other areas, such as environmental technology or nutrition. And I would think it irresponsible to take advantage of the positive effects we have in the field of environment, ecology or food quality from the outset from the point of view of emotion. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I consider it responsible to see positive and negative pages and not to paint black and white. And this is my position, which I take on this question. I, of course, respect the concerns as to how I can demonstrate, for example, the question of the directions relating to the implementation of this motion for a resolution. I therefore call on all these questions not only to be moved by emotions but also to place rationality at the centre of political action. We must not rob ourselves of any possible positive effects through false decisions. – This is my fundamental position on this issue, which is reflected in the position of the Federal Government in part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e6172	Thank you, Minister of State. The next speaker is Mr Deputie's friend. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e6196	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Since Mr Molterer has already dealt very intensively and in detail with the issues of seeds and plant protection, I would like to turn to another subject that we find on today's agenda, namely the freedom of the request for measures against the migration of agriculture, in which the Federal Government is accused – and this is, of course, also meant by Mr Molterer – that nothing be done for agriculture and not countered. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I note the following: Agriculture, of course, is just as competitive as the economy, and structural changes are not to be avoided. What are the causes of the migration from agriculture? – The rapid and high technical progress in the production of plants and also of food, technical mechanization, the introduction of computer technology and automation, the increase in yield and a huge overhang in the Western industrialized countries in Europe and overseas, the progressive liberalisation of the world market in agricultural products, the low world market prices for agricultural goods, education and training in non-agricultural professions and the ability to take up the labour market. All of this promotes abduction from agriculture. There has been migration from agriculture throughout Europe since the Second World War, and it continues. This does not mean, however, that one must accept this as given and not apply a counter-strategy, especially since the general labour market does not appear to be acceptable anymore. – It is simply to accuse the Minister of Agriculture of inactivity. Yes, we have a bad situation regarding the green land sector, cattle and milk production, the disastrous effects of the BSE crisis in Europe – not a single case of BSE in Austria, and yet a fall in the price of cattle of up to 20 percent. The milk price received by Austrian farmers is one of the worst in the EU, because we do not yet have a satisfactory position on the market. Of the food chains, milk and dairy products are offered at a slug at a price below which the price is maintained; for example, Schlagobers now costs 6.90 S, before joining the EU it cost 23 p. High-quality products from the local farmers come under the wheels. What may be positive for so many consumers is disastrous for the local dairy farmers. It is to be feared that if this destructive price struggle does not stop in the case of basic foods, many farmers will stop producing milk. It is in danger, too, of green land management. That means: There are then no well-kept meadows, but a wilding of the cultural landscape. The negative impact on tourism is the result. Measures to save land management are therefore essential. It is absolutely incomprehensible why in the high quality of beef, the farmers in Austria receive only these low payout prices for slaughter cattle from the slaughterhouses; I do not understand at all. We need to take measures to improve this area. I am pleased that the Federal Minister is active in this matter, that he is also committed to increasing the green land premium and premiums for female cattle. I also welcome Minister Molterer's commitment to increasing BSE compensation. Of course, I also welcome the fact that Minister Molterer, together with us, is working to ensure that the milk quota regime is maintained throughout Europe, otherwise we would be under additional pressure because milk production can be made easier in other countries. There must be no complete liberalisation in this area, as production conditions are too different. Production costs in Austria are still far too high for farmers. The strict conditions for the production of food, compared to our European colleagues, are blasphemous to our farmers. Today's government plans may be able to ease this a little bit. [[Abg. Aumayr: Where?]] We have strict animal welfare laws in Austria, which are regulated by the federal states. Every farmer is interested in the best animal husbandry. You of the Freeman support the Federal Animal Protection Act, although you know that this is intended to prohibit columning and bonding. [[Abg. Aumayr: That's a fool! You didn't read that at all! Such a fool!]] This would again force smaller farmers to stop production because this would mean enormously high costs for conversion and investment. I therefore do not understand your attitude at all. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mrs. Aumayr! You should get out of your snail house where you've been hiding and see reality in the eye. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] I am one of the rural family farms that produce organically and naturally. The Austrian environmental programme, involving 85 percent of all farmers, ensures high quality food as well as healthy soil and water. Reducing fertiliser use and chemical plant protection are the consequences of this programme. This also results in less yield per hectare. [[Abg. Böhacker: Who wrote you this Sunday talk?]] You have to take note of that. You do not know this, of course, because you are not out of agriculture, but you think you should make calls. [[Abg. Aumayr: He's a business builder like you!]] I believe that the Federal Government is well advised to continue and expand the environmental programme, which expires after five years, as it is simply necessary to achieve a certain degree of compensation, as the revenues are not yet in place. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! There would still be a variety of things to list, which are very important, which would allow us to create jobs for farmers, for example through the new trade regulation, which is about maintaining rural management. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals]] It is simply necessary to see the workplace farm, as it is at all necessary to see the whole rural area from a new perspective in our policy. I also believe that it is necessary to encourage the young farmers again, because the eternal only-criticism and all-in-question positions, as you do from the liberals, will not keep our young farmers on the farms. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: The whole speech was a single criticism! 70 percent was one regret!]] You think you can make your mood here through criticism and bad. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: 70 percent of your speech was a pity!]] We should have a positive view of things here, and with our policy, as our Minister of Agriculture tells us, we should help to maintain or improve the income situation. – In this sense, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e6326	Mr Ing. Reichhold. – Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor. You know the Rules of Procedure. Time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e6350	High house! Mr President. In his speech, which he so saddened the situation of agriculture, the honourable Member has found that we liberals support a Federal Animal Protection Act which prohibits the use of binding. - That's wrong. We support a Federal Animal Protection Act based on the animal health index according to Bartussek. And if you had dealt with it, you would know that the bonding there is very well allowed.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e6381	The next item is Mrs Aumayr's speech. You also have a voluntary time limit of 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e6402	Minister! Mr President. I have now found a note that Mr. Cot has forgotten. Some of his colleagues probably gave him something so that he would know what to say when he was at the speaker's desk. "Come out of the snail house, and imagine reality!" – Haven You forget that note, Mr. Friend? That's a little blamble. - It's going to be in the archive, yes. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: (taking note) That comes into the archive!]] [[Abg. Auer: This was the Scripture of the Reichhold!]] I can only tell you, Mr. Freund: You have here in your speech wept the liberals like the tombstones about your own policy, about the consequences of your minister's policy. They have not put in any constructive proposal for the farm workplace. You need to read your speech in peace again, then you will realize: From the beginning to the end, it is only a single pity without a single proposal. Federal Minister! In addition, in your speech you wanted to make the motion for a resolution tasty, so to speak, and also to the fact that a list of genetically modified seeds can now be retrieved on the Internet, I ask you: Federal Minister! Who or what prevents you from writing in this motion for a resolution – if it does not now come into the new seed law, which I do not understand – that the labelling is not on the list of varieties but on the packaging? Farmers – they themselves are of agricultural origin – drive when they order their fields, to the warehouse or to the product dealer and buy seeds. Faith You really, Minister, are the farmers, if this is not on the packaging, calling the Federation to find out what seed is in there? How reliable, then, is this information? I can tell you why the label is not on the packaging: because you don't want it because you absolutely don't want it! That's the only reason. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Reichhold.]] Yeah, on the Internet. The farmers then surf the Internet, Minister. Brussels commands – the ÖVP and the SPÖ obey! There is no alternative to this law, Mr Federal Minister, which is contained in the explanations. There is no alternative, but it is the x-te EU Customisation Act. Exploitation costs. You have shaken your head, Mr Minister, when my colleague, Mr Reichhold, said that 14 additional federal officials must be recruited. [[Federal Minister Mag. Molterer: They won't be set in addition!]] Of course! Then read the law, Minister of State! I got it here, and there's it inside: 14 Federal officials are necessary. In the Committee you have told me that they will not be recruited, but, as it were, officials will be taken from the stock. But then I really wonder, Minister of State: If now 14 federal officials can easily manage and manage a new law, what have these 14 federal officials done up to now? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Böhacker: That's it!]] All of this, Mr. Federal Minister, is nothing against the forerunnery obedience to the Genlobby. There will be no labelling of genetically modified seeds – a completely micky motion for a resolution – but with today's decision-making of this law, the Federal Government and with it, above all, the SPÖ 1.2 million signatures on genetic engineering people's desire really comes with feet. All people who signed this popular desire – and that was 1,200 000 – are today made clear by the Federal Government: We don't care about your concerns! We are not interested in your wishes! Your opinion does not count for this federal government! You can sign as much and as much as you want – we do what we want! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] And I find the following very worrying: Some SPÖ MPs – not so few at all – will take part in this law today, although they signed the genetic engineering people's desire a few weeks ago. Today, they decide on the opposite of what they signed three or four weeks ago. This is really incomprehensible to me, and I can only tell you, ladies and gentlemen, especially from the SPÖ: Do you not wonder any more that political shady in this country is taking on such dimensions? If you decide here inside laws that result in the opposite of what you demanded by popular desire four weeks ago, you do not need to wonder at all about it. Such an opportunity for Austria, Mr. Federal Minister, such a huge opportunity for this little Austria – and you forgive it! This path to agricultural farming, to organic farming is paved with thousands of jobs – with thousands of jobs in agriculture, with thousands of jobs in the food industry, in the transport industry – and you give up this historic opportunity today simply in favour of the Genlobby, in favour of the corporations. Today, Mr. Federal Minister, the Austrian farmers are handing over to the companies and the Genlobby. That is why you are giving up self-sufficiency with food à la longue, and that is irresponsible, Minister of State. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You, Federal Minister, do not do the will of consumers, you do not do the will of 90 percent of farmers, but you do the will of the Genlobby and the chemical companies. Where's the cold food store you talked about or your predecessor? There's no such thing as him, instead we're coming to Frankenstein's kitchen now! If you are not yet satisfied with the insanity of cattle, are you not satisfied with swine fever, are you still not satisfied with all these consequences of industrial agriculture? Do you really need to get involved in the seeds? Do you really need to change seeds that have been produced in thousands of years of genetic engineering? What for, Mr. Federal Minister? Do we really need higher yields? Who needs higher yields? It is the surplus in Europe that causes enormous costs, but it is not the lack! There were also no ecological reasons for you, because it is genetically modified seed, as it is now on the market, not seed that is resistant to pests, but seed that is resistant to certain chemicals, such as those of the company Monsanto. There you can then grow wheat or corn and give chemical showers until nothing screams and flees and no more green on the field except the corn plant, but this corn plant is naturally resistant to the chemicals of this one company. Therefore, the farmer must buy this seed, at any price, he must pay a licence fee, he must pay for the patents. And with today's draft law, you, Mr. Federal Minister, have made the way in this direction: into total dependence on corporations!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e6526	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e6547	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Today, there are laws on the debate on agriculture, which include important and necessary provisions. Thus, the new Seed Law provides for clear rules on the authorisation and recognition and clear requirements for the nature of seed and plant seed. The aim of a resolution is to ensure the labelling of genetically modified plants in the future. We stand for an objective approach to genetic engineering. It is about a sober assessment of the risks and the safeguarding of our chances in competition. In fact, protection offers only a clear labelling of genetically modified products. And we confess to that. In the plant protection law, I note that clear rules are also being made here. In this context, however, I would also like to point out the encouraging development in the use of plant protection products. Austrian agriculture has become more natural in recent years. In the previous year there were already 18 700 organic farms, which are twelve times as many as in 1990. Already one-fifth of the agricultural area is being processed organically and the market of organic products continues to develop. Austria is thus undisputed the bioland number one in Europe! It is now a question of our farmers being able to make economic capital out of this development. This requires greater liberalisation. We must support our farmers in the tougher competition and strengthen their backs. It is only in this way that we can stop the departure from agriculture and secure jobs in agriculture. Of course, EU accession has led to a major structural change. Austrian agriculture has mastered this change well. The extension of the funding enabled the structural change to be halted socially. However, the common agricultural policy of the future must take more account of the diversity of agricultural services, and the common agricultural policy of the future must give clear signals: Signals against increased industrialization of agriculture, signals of farm-structured agriculture adapted to the natural needs of people. Of course, agricultural policy must also be eligible for funding. In particular, with regard to the forthcoming enlargement of the European Union, we need to consider what this new agricultural policy should look like. It is a process of maturity on both sides. Firstly, the implementation of reform proposals, which we Socialists have also put in place at European level – for example, the increased assessment of national funding – and secondly, the reform countries need to be prepared for integration. Everything else would be a political and economic blind flight with uncertain outcome. Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian agriculture today stands at a turnoff. It can choose the path of mass production, which is determined by a constant price struggle, but it can also opt for specialization and high-quality production. For the latter, there is already a typical example that I would like to mention, namely the wine industry which has shown us this way. The quality and uniqueness of their products have led to the success of domestic winegrowers, and of course these successes, ladies and gentlemen, are also reflected in the trade balances. Demand increases, and the former surplus product Wine has become scarcer. Ladies and gentlemen! Austria's agriculture has good conditions for its existence in the future. We Social Democrats are committed to a farm-structured agriculture and show us solidarity with the concerns of the local farmers in the future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[12:32]] Announcement of an application for the establishment of an investigative committee
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e6607	Before I give the floor to the next speaker, I declare Mr Magistrate. Stadler according to § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure requested a Committee of Inquiry to examine political and legal responsibility in the context of: 1. with the appointment of management functions of banks in the sphere of public policy; 2. with political influence on the activities of these banks; 3. with regard to export financing and export guarantees, and 4. with price agreement of the main Austrian commercial banks In this case, it should be noted In addition, this is the case of five delegates, according to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure proposed that a debate be held on this request. According to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure shall be debated and put to the vote after completion of the agenda. We are now continuing the debate, and I give the floor to Mr Dr Kier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e6656	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The issues raised in the debate on agriculture need to be remedied, because I believe that it has simply been neglected that the amendment tabled in connection with the labelling of seed is actually a request that can only be accepted, and it is actually disappointing that this amendment needs to be tabled in the plenary. The Committee has also tried to place this word in line with the labelling system for genetically modified seed. This has been expressly rejected by the Federal Minister. However, I think that the House would be really well advised to show the Federal Minister that we are the legislators and that it is not up to us to follow him simply because he thinks he cannot do so. I cannot understand the reason that it may be unpleasant somewhere. What about the labelling of the genetic change on the seed for anyone? It is vital for someone who fears that this may be a disadvantage in the market due to transparency. However, I think: That is exactly the task of the market! This transparency, which has been described as a genetic change, is intended to enable the market to respond. I therefore believe that Mr Wabl and Mr Reichhold's request should actually be adopted unanimously, because everything else is completely implausible. [[Call the liberals: Have an idea!]] It's not a ban, it's not a restriction, it's only a label. I therefore believe that this is either a premature obedience in any wrong direction, or I do not know what. It would be very good for this law to be repaired at least on this point. With regard to another aspect, I would like to refer once again to the comments made by my colleague, Helmut Peter. It is indeed totally intolerable what is being done here in constitutional terms. It's totally unbearable! There is clear evidence that it is unconstitutional to integrate the agricultural chambers into the implementation in the intended form. Although the Minister of the Federal Government immediately took the floor "exclusively" – I give him the right – only in the specific case of the Constitutional Court was concerned with a case in which a question of exclusivity was raised. It is no longer exclusively here, but still a form of self-government, a form of chamber – that is a certain legal form – is used and incorporated into the state execution. Then, hopefully, – rather I fear that – the employees of the Chambers of Agriculture are active in the context of instructions, although the Chamber of Agriculture is an autonomously organized body as a body of public law. And that's unconstitutional! There is no need to be a particularly trained constitutional judge in order to recognize this, and the Constitutional Court has therefore said it quite clearly. It is now being answered by changing the Constitution! And this is a prejudice for the chambers. You know that the Liberal Forum has a high level of reform in relation to the Chambers, and you think that there is a need to improve and change a number of things here in the direction of legal compulsory membership and so on – I do not want to discuss this here – so you know that we are the last ones to whom we can blame that we are protecting ourselves from the involuntary or incompetent chambers of reform. But if chambers are to have a meaning, then they have to be autonomous, and if autonomous chambers are put in a link with a Federal Ministry of Education, then at least they are no longer autonomous on this question, but then they are just agents of fulfillment. The word here may have a small side-taste. I don't mean they're just formal agents. However, employees of an autonomous chamber, who are executioners of a minister, are something where I would really like to call all the members of the House who are on chambers: Give me that start! This may result in the legislator’s being used in any form by the chamber organisations in order not to use federal officials in particular, i.e. almost personnel savings at the federal government, and abuse is done with chamber resources. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I wonder, What do I have of the fact that a board – in the case of the Chamber of Agriculture, the next time it is perhaps the Chamber of Workers, and another time it is the Chamber of Commerce – can shape itself in the way that it considers it to be correct in the context of its legal orders if it is then taken to the short line of a ministry? It is therefore not only constitutionally unbearable for formal reasons that we are getting a proposal with which we should decide on such a thing, but it is also a serious political error. I strongly appeal to the Members of both Governments not to do so just because, so to speak, it is a small, cute and hearty chamber which is not so strong because of its size. You're making a serious mistake! I wanted to say that from this point of view, so it doesn't one day mean: Jessas, that's what happened to us now! They will wonder how enthusiastic the chambers will be when it comes to themselves. Because once something like this has been raised to the constitutional rank, the next step will not be so difficult next time. That's what you'll say: That's what we did back then. And I mean, Think about whether you really want to! Before I conclude, one last comment to the Plant Protection Act. I believe that the Group speaker of the EIA has somewhat confused the hierarchy of political values by saying that social policy considerations are being put before environmental protection. I believe that the whole of the agricultural sector can only exist if one has a social policy access to it, because if we proceed purely according to hard numbers or any forward-looking economic effects, then we should not afford all of this. The fact that we are committed to it is a social consensus, and that is why I always have a social right to agricultural policy. It is about people in this area, of course it is about the landscape, and it is also about animal husbandry. All of this is social access, i.e. access to values, a value that even costs something, a value that is not about money, but because we want to know something that we want to have something viable. That is why I think, Mr Schwarzböck, social policy and agricultural policy should not be separated, because agricultural policy without social access can only be considered. [[Abg. Schwarzböck: Who said that?]] This is becoming utilitarian, and then it can be shown that agriculture policy – which is considered in terms of environmental protection – may lead to the far-reaching abolition of farms. You know very well that many groundwater problems which we are currently having come from areas of agriculture by having been driven on large fields for decades with artificial fertilizers of Schindluder. - Thank you. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] 12.4 2
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e6711	The next speaker is Mr Zweytick. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e6733	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Volker Kier! I am a practicing farmer, and my heart depends on this agriculture in Austria. Of course, the existence of these agriculture practiced in Austria depends on our society, for it is the society that also finances this agriculture, through the award of their corresponding products. The Austrian society has a great deal of understanding and confidence in local agriculture, because we have also set decisive milestones in agricultural policy in recent years, which can be seen especially in Europe. Our progress in this area will also be heard in Europe, and it will respond accordingly. I'm a practicing farmer. That is why I can speak here today from the practice of these laws, which are passed, such as the Plant Protection Act. For us farmers – Dr. Kier – it would be important for you to listen now so that you know this – the simplified authorisation rules of beneficial and biological plant protection products are of central importance. This is progress. Especially for hop-building – I take this only as an example of the sectors of the farmers concerned in Austria – too few sprays have been registered so far, so that ecologically meaningful plant protection in hop-making was not possible. For example, only Ridomil was allowed for the peronospora primary infection in hop construction, which is why many of our plants have already shown enormous resistance symptoms. As a result, the funds had to be used more and more in order to achieve success. Now, in optimal succession, the amount of application and the number of applications can be kept as low as possible, which is of course beneficial for environmental protection. On The approval of ecologically sound plant protection products ensures production branches which may otherwise have to be discontinued in Austria due to lack of resources. There are also very useful animal resources here, such as the flower flies, which also require authorisation. With the help of the new law, it should be possible to simply close indication gaps, as they currently exist for vegetable production, for stone fruit and berries, for hops, medicinal herbs and spices in large numbers. Foreign farmers can often successfully use plant protection products for yield and quality assurance in these crops. It has already been said several times that we have achieved a 20% reduction in plant protection products over the last four years. I am convinced that we can achieve another 20% reduction in the use of plant protection products in the next one or two years with today's amendment to the plant protection legislation. In addition, from the point of view of environmental protection, the list of substances to be laid down by Regulation should not be included in a plant protection product. Mr Wabl! We very much value environmental ecology and, above all, water protection – of course, Mr Kier, in connection with a socio-political debate. It is also a task for us farmers to take society seriously, and we are also trying to do so because a very far-sighted and cautious agriculture minister here has the saying and because we want to do so most of the time in Austria, but also the great majority of Austrians. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Another essential advantage of the new regulation is for us farmers to reduce barriers to trade between Member States in order to reduce increasing production costs on the one hand and red tape on the other. By adapting Austrian law to EU law, it is expected that the chemical lobby will have to give up the price dictatorship and allow for a genuine market opening for plant protection products. In addition, a plant protection product, which is already authorised in one of the so-called reference countries, will also be able to be sold automatically in Austria. This will make it possible to buy new and better active substances in the Austrian market at the same price. From an agricultural point of view, the new rules in the Seeds Act, which simplify administration, reduce bureaucracy and speed up the authorisation process, are also to be welcomed. In particular, the legal anchoring of the protection of all seeds and the list in the public part of the list of varieties should be highlighted, whether the approved variety is a genetically modified plant. Based on the initiative of our Minister for Agriculture, there will be a draft no later than autumn which will allow for a comprehensive labelling of genetically modified seed in accordance with EU legislation. At present, the EU Commission is working on drafts for a corresponding regulation on seed. In addition, the EIA in the Committee on Agriculture called for a research focus on "biological agriculture" and in particular on the production of organic seed. All in all, I am convinced that, with the new regulation in the Plant Protection Act, we have fulfilled a long-standing demand for our farmers in the sense of our landscape, ecology and also in the sense of our society and have created good conditions in the Seeds Act, which allow for an environmentally conscious method of production. Finally, I should like to thank our Minister for Agriculture Molterer and wish him all the best for his birthday as well as a lot of success, happiness and health. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e6814	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Langthaler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e6835	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to comment on both the draft legislation here, the Plant Protection Act and, above all, the Seed Law. To the Plant Protection Act: For many years now, we have been discussing the fact that those chemicals that are used are, in part, particularly high toxicity. What are they for? – They are supposed to kill lives, namely those pests that could in the opposite way damage cereal varieties or other varieties. That is, we are talking here about chemicals, which, in part, have very high effectiveness and, in part, very high toxicity. The term "plant protection law", in which the word "protection" is, implies to those who hear that this is actually a very good thing, that there cannot be a lot of danger associated with it. I would rather talk about pesticides in this context, and I would like to draw your attention again and again to the fact that they are chemicals, which in part have enormous toxicity, and that, especially in recent years, this toxicity has not been minimized, although it has succeeded in destroying more pests with lower levels of use, because some substances – under quotation marks – are "better". Again and again my minister or coalitionman, the use of pesticides has been reduced in total. Although this is true in part, it is far from a success report, especially when one sees that the chemicals used and the substances we are still dealing with are, in part, very effective and very high toxicity. I would like to give a similar example, which may appear to everyone in this context to be clear. They all know the statements made by the detergent industry that now less is sold from the tonnages, but it is not said that they are partly more concentrated substances. And it is precisely because, Mr Minister, it is relatively little if we are told that the use in Austria and in other countries – related to the tonnage – has declined, if we do not at the same time take account of the fact that in some areas it is more concentrated and even more toxic chemicals. These are chemicals that need a special review that needs a special examination. And there are not in all European countries those standards that have already existed in Austria. In this respect, it is indeed problematic if, in Austria, all the products which have a corresponding authorisation or licence in other countries are automatically approved. Minister! They thought that the NGOs were involved in the process and that the environmental organisations involved could already live by this law – I understand you at least. I would just like to have a press release from WWF and Greenpeace on 28 May. Citing April 1997, with the title: Minister's agreement is at risk of domestic drinking water protection! WWF and Greenpeace: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. It speaks of a "pesticide-cushion course" of the Federal Government, in particular of the Minister of Agriculture. The environmental organisations have therefore taken a very clear negative position, and not all the questions have been answered for the Greens. But what seemed particularly important to us would be to discuss a regulation and ultimately also to decide to reduce the use of pesticides not only from the pure tonnages, but also from the effectiveness as a whole. From our point of view, we should finally use a market economy instrument, namely a pesticides tax. There has been such a situation in Sweden for a long time, and it has now been decided in Denmark. And those funds that are collected as a result of the introduction of the pesticides tax should be used for organic farming and for organic farming. For the Danish scheme, which has already been decided, 400 million schillings have been estimated for 1996, and the corresponding amounts have been pumped back into Danish agriculture in order to promote specific environmental measures. The Greens are putting in place a resolution on this subject, which I would like to read here: [[Quoted print version removed]] This would be a concrete example in addition to the energy tax that has often been quoted here, which would also be necessary. This could show how important and necessary it is to tax resources that one wants to minimize. In part, we could use the money for environmental measures, or also for them – something we would like to discuss in this context too – in order to reduce specific additional labour costs or labour-related taxes. The second area, the Seeds Act, is actually far more comprehensive than its name, which I say for the not quite so agricultural experts here. The seed law has a lot to do with biological biodiversity. It is often discussed in this House about biodiversity when we are discussing nature conservation reports, but not when it is very specific about legislative instruments such as those of today which have far more influence than nature conservation provisions in relation to the protection of species. In the last few weeks, the Greens have repeatedly tried to draw attention to this law in the debate that, in the context of the Seeds Act, it is a matter of setting up measures, not only for the EU, but also for Austrian initiatives to promote plant genetic resources. We are also putting in place a corresponding motion for a resolution, which is distributed and which, because it is very comprehensive, is not intended to be read, namely the resolution tabled by Mrs Ing. Langthaler, Dr. Petrovic, Wabl, friends regarding the placing on the market of seeds for the conservation of plant genetic resources. This proposal focuses on promoting and supporting alternative breeding initiatives. There are appropriate Austrian initiatives to preserve biodiversity not only but also to reinitiate it at all, and there must be appropriate approaches that could be taken in the context of the European Union from Austria. There are proposals in various areas, but only in expert bodies, and we believe that especially Austria, with its high share, should play a pioneering role not only in interested people, but also in organic farmers, and should set up appropriate initiatives. biodiversity and biodiversity are very much related to the biological seed. Minister! There is also a motion for a resolution by the Greens. Unfortunately, I have to read a lot of motions for resolutions because Mr Wabl was unable to read all his motions for resolutions in excess of his feelings – the subject is such a matter of his heart. . We have tried to make this request tasty for you in recent months in a number of debates on genetic engineering. This is about institutionalising a research focus on organic seed in Austria. [[Quoted print version removed]] The focus of our discussion on the seed law in the Committee and also in today's speeches by Mr Wabl was undoubtedly that only a few weeks ago we had a very prominent popular desire on a subject very close to the people. The use of genetic engineering especially in the food sector, especially in the production of goods with which we come directly into contact with which we eat, goes under the skin. I give you the right, Minister: I too am absolutely in favour of discussing these issues very objectively and not emotionally. Never-increased solutions come out when too many emotions swing along. On the other hand, it is just that I cannot see from your remarks why you have not included the genetic, chemical or biological changes in the Seeds Act. If it is in the interest of the Austrian Federal Government, I would like to believe that, as you have told us here, it is also in your interest that there is a corresponding complete labelling of genetically modified seeds, then it is totally inexplicable to me why you do not write this in. There is no contradiction at all with what you said earlier: the necessary initiatives, the conviction that the motion for a resolution is going in this direction, and that this is already being discussed at European level. All the more it would be good and right to fix this right now. You can talk about a lot, but if you really want to and can implement something, you can see it when it is specifically defined in a law. You can talk about a lot, but if you can and want to implement something, you can see whether it is laid down in a law. This is as if we are always talking about how important the environment is to us as a whole, while the priorities in the budget are quite different. Indeed, 33 billion schillings are spent on road construction, but there is hardly any money for concrete environmental transport planning. It is also in this context. If the environment is as important to you as you have just said in your reply to Members' contributions, it is all the less understandable that you have not already written everything into the law. If there were to be something else in Europe that would be contrary to us, we would have to talk about it again. But in many cases, which is obviously very important to you politically, but which is not always in line with the EU – I remember the sad history of the anonymity of the savings books – it is obviously not a problem to take positions other than those of the European Union. The popular desire has at least signed 1.23 million people who have called for exactly such measures from the Federal Government to ensure complete labelling in this area. All those people will They are to a great extent becoming those who expect nothing more from the government and politics as a whole. I believe that the Federal Government should finally take popular desires more seriously. What happens if you do not take signatures of more than 1 million on genetic engineering, signatures of 600,000 people to women's desires or, as you have done, signatures of more than 500,000 people regarding animal welfare requirements seriously? – This results in a deplorable democracy that supports those forces, Mr Minister, which we hope we will not have on the front line in this country! I therefore propose an amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] I also tabled a motion for an amendment tabled by Mr Wabl, who was particularly diligent in the last committee and brought in many amendments. [[Abg. Wabl: That was Katharina Fatzi!]] [[Quoted print version removed]] The background to this amendment is to support, in particular, those non-profit associations that are already working for appropriate biological seed and for the conservation of genetic resources, and which, from our point of view, receive far greater obstacles from this seed law, which you decide today. I also share the view expressed by my esteemed colleague and agricultural speaker Wabl in this respect, who believes that, by virtue of the law, major multis, whether in the agricultural industry or in the chemical industry, are supported, in spite of the interests of those who have already, in part, tried under great personal effort, to work for organic farming, while the multis have not contributed to a detoxification in agriculture. Minister! I believe that for Austrian agriculture, in order to be able to survive in an enhanced, increased competition – I think you will be able to take all these novels into account – so that ecology can contribute to it as a trademark. I have also never understood in the whole area of the debate on genetic engineering and on your proposals for labelling, which was mostly not complete, but very flawless, why one has not seen that, if one were to rigorously prohibit the use of genetic engineering in the field of food production, we really do not know enough about the risks and the dangers associated with it. Everyone, including everyone in all European countries, where we export food – these are not very many, the market is not very large, but it will hopefully become bigger – knew, when it comes to a product on which "Made in Austria" stands, that it can be certain that nothing is inside, which has previously been genetically modified. – This is a perfectly clear positive label, without having to philosophise for a long time, how this should be controlled or written on the packaging et cetera. This is indeed a great opportunity for Austrian food production and also for Austrian organic farming. That is exactly what we should use as a great market opportunity. A small country like Austria will have to adapt to European competition in many areas, and especially in the field of ecology it would not only be in the sense of a good, better environment, but also there would be a great market opportunity, a great economic opportunity. Not to take full advantage of it, in this context, not really to do without compromise and to take advantage of this advantage, but to give it up gradually, which is not understandable to me. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We will not be able to keep up with the large European multis. They are ten times more financially powerful, they have far more influence, even in Brussels, than you can have it with so much commitment. We see this in many areas, whether in the energy sector, whether in agriculture, or in food production. In fact, an existing structure, partly strongly stimulated and built up ecologically, is still a major competitive advantage. You should use this one. You didn't do that today. We regret this and must no doubt reject the novels. We hope that at least in the subcommittees which will be set up in the field of genetic engineering as a result of popular desire, you will be able to convince yourself that environmental protection can actually be a major market advantage today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e6980	Mrs Ing. Langthaler's selected amendments and the resolution on research focus on biological seed, which has also been read, are sufficiently supported and are included in the negotiations. The motion for a resolution on the placing on the market of seed for the conservation of plant genetic resources has been presented at its core. I wished to see the distribution of this motion for a resolution. This motion for a resolution is also included in the negotiations. The motion for a resolution reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e7050	Mrs Hagenhofer has now been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e7072	Mr President. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Agriculture such as the whole world economy is undergoing a very rapid change. This means that farms, but also the farmers have to reorient themselves, have to search market niches. The direct marketing which many of the farmers are seeking is therefore an important pillar of farm security. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] We from the SPÖ stand for this additional guarantee of existence. We are therefore also in favour because this rail can also secure farm jobs – but under the same hygiene and tax conditions as trade. Therefore, my urgent appeal to the Federal Chamber of Commerce and to the Chamber of Agriculture to finally conclude the months of negotiations, so that those farmers who carry on the idea of direct marketing or who are already carrying out them know what conditions they will have to comply with in the future and how they can move on the market. If I read or hear from the farmers that in some areas they had to take up to 50 per cent of production or producer price decline, I think this is a clear indication that the total representation of farmers, namely the Raiffeisen Vertriebsgemeinschaft, has failed in this area. This means that liberalisation is also required in this area, and not just as it is called for loud everywhere, with the workers. The farmer as an entrepreneur is in demand, and as an independent entrepreneur, the farmer knows very well that he can achieve confidence in the consumer through quality and can also conquer the market with this confidence. We from SPÖ strongly support consumer protection in so far as it is not only a protection for consumers, that is, consumers, but also a protection for those farmers who comply with the hygiene directives, who work effectively and use Austrian products exclusively. A final note: According to a survey, 82 percent of Austrians are against the use of genetic engineering in agriculture. – Mr President Schwarzböck and Mr Schwarzenberger are unfortunately not here now, I wanted to ask these two gentlemen for something. – They secure the income of farmers and thus direct sales by applying for this measure in the sense that you are in favour of the people, telling the people not to be afraid, but to shop with the organic farmers. – The farmers – which they always tell me in individual discussions – do not want to live exclusively on the promotion, the farmers want to produce, they want to market the products themselves or in producer communities, and they also want to get proper prices for it, and they can get them when quality and goods vote. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e7120	Mr Koller is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 8 minutes of voluntary time limit will be displayed. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e7141	Mr President. Mr. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen. To the Seed Act: The innovative "breeding books" three years ago only have more museum value. The varieties contained therein shall be considered as valid only for more than four years. What is it then? – Then the EU registration is valid. Then there are "EU-friendly" varieties, then the EU patents and also new fee rules apply. The growers are increasingly asked to cash out, and the reduction of the additional costs on the farmers is pre-programmed. The previous fees amounted to 2.4 million. New annual fees of 36 million will be charged. Mr Zweytick has spoken of the fact that there is no sacrifice. I wonder, Is the increase in annual fees from 2.4 million to 36 million non-renewal? Minister! They said in the Committee that the increase in fees was justified because it had not been aligned for a long time. Minister! This is the end of Austrian seed breeding. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] From my youth I remember the legendary bet of then Foreign Minister Figl with Soviet Prime Minister Khrushchev. It was about which country achieves the highest yield in maize. The Austrian hybrid maize from seed breeding Gleisdorf has won home high. Ladies and gentlemen! This law also contains a loophole for genetically modified seed under the title "Authorisation of experimental seed". This is a circumvention of the previous release rules. The Minister shall have a regulatory authority. Chemical additives in seeds must be marked, but not genetically modified. ==References== April this year, the Steiermärkian Landtag decided on the following – I would like to point out three points with which this seed law is trampled with feet –: A new simplified authorisation procedure must be provided for species. The next point: The expensive and expensive testing procedures for certified seed shall not be required for species of land which are usually delivered only in small quantities. – This is not true either. A simplified authorisation procedure should be provided for small quantities and regional varieties. – All those points are not fulfilled. The federal states do not like this! That will have a follow-up in the Federal Council! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Now to the Plant Protection Act: I shall give you three reasons why we reject this law: first of all because of the undemocratic procedure in committee. Such an important law, like the short-term submission of an amendment to the Coalition, is surprisingly expressed on the agenda as an item on the agenda. The second point: Freedom of fools in scientific experiments. Non-authorised plant protection products may be used in the case of genetic releases without restriction. Monsanto and consortia will be delighted by this large-scale legislation. The third point is the extension of the authorisation for all old active substances. Plant protection products with old active substances are up to 26. 7. 2003 allowed, so that's all before the 26th. It was permitted in any Member State of the EU on 1 July 1993. Ladies and gentlemen! Now to Mr Wabl's request for the completion and marketing of the original agricultural production. I know that this point is dealt with in the trade regulation, but it would have been a strengthening for the agricultural interests if this request had been dealt with positively in the Committee on Agriculture. Unfortunately, Mr Schwarzenberger is not here, but I would like to tell him: That's just a move away from responsibility! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The rejection of Mr Reichhold's request concerning measures to combat agricultural migration once again proves the dual maladministration of the ÖVP. In beautiful Sunday speeches, this is repeated again and again. But if evenly liberal applications are made, they will be rejected over and over again. That's your double-supply policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e7197	Mr Kampichler is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 8 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e7218	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Although my previous speakers, especially those from my group, have already dealt very intensively with the Plant Protection Act, I would also like to comment very briefly on it, because I consider it one of the important laws, especially for our horticultural plants. I am very glad that we are adopting this law today, because it has long been a wish, especially the Landgartenbauvereinigung Niederösterreich, that regulations are finally made and that the last findings in the field of plant protection are available to our farms too. The Landgarten Association has very massively complained about the lack of these regulations for Austria, because there have been real problems in this way. We have no means at all for some cultures. My previous speaker, Mr Zweytick, has already pointed this out. The Austrian producers have therefore often not had the opportunity to take advantage of the positive developments in the field of plant protection. Very many environmental and beneficial resources are not registered in Austria and cannot therefore be used. This has also led to competitive disadvantages for our domestic producers. Because products from the European area, where these plant protection products are already available, are of course also sold in Austria, and it has, of course, come to a decisive advantage for foreign producers of these products. Dear ladies and gentlemen! With this law there is a significant improvement for our businesses, an improvement in their market position. We regulate the placing on the market, import and advertising of plant protection products under this law. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! For me, two points are very important: If we decide on this law, we can first avoid unnecessary repetitions of trials with vertebrates, and second, that has impressed me particularly, there must no longer necessarily be an approval in Austria, even if such a product is already permitted in the European area. There must be no authorisation in Austria if damage to humans, animals or the environment is to be feared of any kind. That means we can also reject products. I therefore do not share the fears of the opposition parties on this point. In addition, I should like to point out to my previous speaker that the draft law has been in Parliament for a very long time. Of course, it was enough time to deal with matter. Ladies and gentlemen! I therefore do not share the fears of the opposition, because I believe that the authorisation regulations are being strictly handled. There must be a lot of conditions for a product to be approved by us in Austria, especially with regard to agriculture, forestry, plant protection, the environment and, above all, with regard to weather conditions. All these factors must be comparable to that Member State in which the products in question have already been authorised. But we can use this law to build on the positive experiences of these countries. My previous speaker, President Rudi Schwarzböck, has already mentioned that we do not need to reinvent the wheel. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Another point is also very important to me. Through transitional provisions, those biological plant protection products currently used by our organically managed farms can continue to be used. There would otherwise be serious competitive disadvantages for our organic farmers. This too is regulated in this draft law and can be held back. We can be proud that, in the European area of agriculture, Austria has a very high percentage – I believe, the highest proportion of all European countries – of organic farmers, and it is good that this law can also protect and keep organic farming competitive. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I trust in the agricultural policy in our Federal Minister Willi Molterer, and of course I would also like to congratulate him very warmly on his birthday today. [[Federal Minister Mag. Molterer thanks the speaker.]] It is for me the guarantee of an ecological agricultural policy, and I believe that we can make the best use of the opportunities of our agriculture in the European market. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! This law is an important law for agriculture, especially for horticulture. It is characterized by the high standards of environmental protection, it signals priority for humans, animals and plants, and I will of course very much agree with this law.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e7292	Mrs Gredler is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e7313	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! Now I realize why we have so much time to talk about agriculture today: because you have birthday. I could imagine that the farmers in Austria would like you to have a birthday, so that Parliament could have a wide space to discuss the problems of agriculture. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I read in the 'Press' today that 63 percent of Austrians feel the environment is quite destroyed. That's exactly where we're at the right point. This should be seen as a signal and should be taken up by Mr Barmüller's request to set up a subcommittee on forest and game problems. If the concerns of the Austrians are so great, I think it is high time to do so instead of waiting for a committee meeting to take place again. You could've done that right now. I would also be pleased if this Subcommittee would be able to achieve results as soon as possible, because your ministry would then be able to carry out further activities, Mr Minister. BSE keyword: The motion for a resolution is, of course, obsolete, but the problem of BSE is still up-to-date. If one looks at the position of the new government in England, it must be said that it is very clear that the UK's attitude on this question has to be changed. Although it is not possible to insist on the abolition of the export ban as long as this problem has not been solved in England, once the situation is resolved there, of course, England will insist that this export ban be abolished. Then, of course, appropriate developments in the meat market will also be expected. This is a problem that we will probably have to discuss in a year when we will notice that the Austrian farmers are still very bad in this sector. We must simply be aware that the consumer has not only changed his behaviour on food because of this crisis, but also before it was about to change it. Yesterday, Austria was promised in the European Parliament that 10 percent of its farmers would already operate organic farming. It has been particularly noticeable that this is the direction we should take when we in the European Union discuss the common agricultural policy of the next millennium. I believe that this is a very important point which strengthens our argumentation and our position when we have to negotiate. On the other hand, where inefficient regulatory mechanisms exist – and there are, for example, genetic technology – there must be very sharp positions in the Agriculture Council. [[Federal Minister Mag. Molterer talks to Abg. Ing. Reichhold.]] Even though you, Mr Federal Minister, are currently distracted, I believe that you may very well have the opportunity to argue much more strongly there. In other questions, for example, the English or the French do not speak up. Criticism of the Seed Law. The conservation of biodiversity is equally important for us. On this point I would like to add a cross-reference to genetic technology. There are still too few studies to demonstrate the extent to which genetic technology in agriculture – even if you still do not listen – has an impact on the release of the Federal Minister. [[Federal Minister Mag. Molterer: I am listening all the time, Mrs. Colleague!]] In my opinion, we should use a much larger part of our research budget, which we have available in Austria, to explore the impact of genetic technology on biodiversity. This would also be the right and positive response to the actions that have taken place in the field of genetic engineering, for example, an answer to the 1.2 million signatures for genetic engineering people's desire. With regard to the non-privatisation of the Federal Office and the Research Centre for Agriculture and the Federal Office for Agricultural Biology, I wonder why you can increase if you could privatize. I really think this is a contradiction that has already been pointed out several times today. I think we have the opportunity to do something more consistent. Finally, I would like to say a few words about genetic technology. A system of labelling is the minimum requirement for talking about seeds in Brussels. Federal Minister! See that you enforce this in the European Union! This would show you closer to the citizen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e7365	The next speaker is Mr Schwamlein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e7386	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Koller mentioned a historic bet earlier, which made me loud. It will probably be so that we won this bet at the time, because we had the better, more productive, bigger, or as usual, corn. But the price we had to pay for it is very likely to be questioned. If we look today at those areas in Austria in which corn is grown intensively, we must find that the groundwater there is contaminated for decades. I believe that we should try less to win such bets, but rather look at them and work to keep our environment in order. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Then you have to reject the law, Mr. Colleague!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Just a short while to the seed law. Federal Minister! I'm just dealing with a sub-area whose formulation is really exciting for me. Paragraphs 38 and 39 show that the seed recognition authorities have the opportunity to also use external personnel to enable them to carry out the relevant checks. As a result, it is defined who can carry out field inspections, sampling and so on. I asked myself, when reading this text of the law, what considerations are behind it. § 39 states: Persons who have a relevant university degree shall be considered qualified. - Okay. Next come those who have graduated from a vocational or secondary school. That's where we're already a step below. This is followed by those who have completed equivalent training. At the next stage – we arrive at the lowest level, but for me this is the absolute highlight! – those who have no training at all, on the condition that, as it is called, they are brought to the state of science and technology through training and post-training courses. Minister! I wish that the group of those who are without any training is a relatively small one, because I think that we will not be able to achieve such a high level of training within a short period of time that only qualified persons really do so. [[Federal Minister Mag. Molterer: That's dangerous!]] Ladies and gentlemen! In summary, I believe that we should be able to agree very well with these laws, but at the same time keep in mind some critical remark that has fallen today. As far as the future is concerned, it is necessary for us to work with the necessary sensitivity to further legislation.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e7441	The next speaker is Mr Wenitsch. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e7462	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Federal Minister Mag. Mr Molterer talks to Members who are standing at the government bank.]] Mr Molterer – if You might have a few minutes? [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: He's only got six minutes anyway, Mr. Minister!]] It is sad, Mr Minister, that with the government's draft seed law in 1997 you did not in any way respond to the 1.2 million signatures on genetic engineering, to these 1.2 million citizens who clearly expressed their attitude to genetic engineering. Minister! Without a clear identification of genetically modified seeds, farmers have no chance to meet the demand of more than 80 percent of consumers – you must never forget that! – to plant non-genochemical seed in Austria. The "Feinkosladen Österreich" promoted by your party just before joining the EU is hopelessly destroyed by your government work, Minister! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This may be in the interest of some multinational groups, but it is certainly not in the interest of Austrian farmers and Austrian consumers! [[New condolences with the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Schwarzenberger in committee calls for - I quote - the following: A draft should be submitted by 1997 at the latest to allow for a comprehensive labelling of genetically modified seed, in accordance with EU legislation. – Minister! What does "according to the EU's legislation" mean? Your announced pioneering role within the EU has become a saliva! But we liberals have already feared before joining the EU that it will not be different. Minister! In addition, the government template can only be described as a mockery of Austrian farmers and Austrian consumers who have signed this genetic engineering popular desire. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But you are in good company, Mr Minister, as can be seen from the chamber newspaper of the Lower Austrian Chambers of State, financed by compulsory contributions from the Lower Austrian farmers. [[The speaker keeps a newspaper entitled "Agriculture" up to date]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: A good newspaper!]] Mr Schwarzenberger! This newspaper reads like a fairy tale book by Brothers Grimm. That's all she is. She's a fairy tale book by Brother Grimm! Mr Schwarzböck! They clearly state in this paper – in this case: black on green –: Agricultural income fell by around 10 percent. Schwarzböck writes: Lowering farm income requires massive countermeasures. - You're right, Mr Schwarzböck. That's right. But why do you announce something in this paper that you do not represent here in Parliament? You don't represent it, I can prove it to you. Mr Schwarzböck! They also demand – I quote – in this newspaper: It is high time that the federal government paid its share of BSE compensation payments for the uncultivated bovine farmers. - Nice and good. In this question you seem to be of an opinion with us liberals – or we with you. If this is really the case, I'd ask you today: Please agree to Reichhold's request! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The Reichhold application demands exactly what you demand in this newspaper. Today, you and all the farmers' representatives of the ÖVP have the opportunity to finally make their announcements published in the Chamber Newspaper. Voices (The sitting was suspended at 3 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.) The Reichhold application has exactly your request on the content: Reimbursement for non-indebted bovine farmers. Ladies and gentlemen! With these farmers who are not in debt, the following could happen as well... – Mr Minister, would you perhaps have a few minutes? [[Federal Minister Mag. Mr Molterer talks to Members who are standing at the government bank.]] Minister! On the genetic engineering directive that you will decide, I can tell you the following already today. You said that was a chance for the food producers. – Minister! We farmers are forced by the EU to break a certain part of our farmland, i.e. to stop, to grow and harvest nothing on this part. And you want to tell me that we need genetic engineering to achieve higher yields? Where's the logic? – On the one hand, you want to achieve higher yields per hectare, but on the other hand, farmers are forced to break part of their fields. I think we should really talk about the current agricultural policy in detail. [[Abg. Aumayr: A chaos!]] Ladies and gentlemen! It must not be possible for Austrian farmers to be disadvantaged by national legislation against their colleagues in the other EU countries. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The national legislation is the responsibility of Mr Molterer and his friends of the ÖVP. I'm telling you that very clearly. [[New condolences with the liberals.]] Mr Schwarzböck! I would like to say that your demands – your claimed demands – that are also contained in this beautiful newspaper, regarding stable framework conditions both at national and EU level at last! - They laugh. I know you're not interested in the farmers. That's clear to me. You're interested in a few multinational corporations, but not the Austrian farmer. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] They call for a very stable framework here. These stable conditions, promised to farmers before joining the EU, you, Minister Molterer, have, together with your party. They betrayed and sold the farmers. They brought 15 000 farmers here, to Vienna, to put pressure on them to get their money. We liberals have supported you on this issue. But now, together with the SPÖ colleagues, you have disgraced the farmers.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e7593	Mrs Sophie Bauer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e7617	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! My contribution to the debate relates to the request made by Mr Reichhold and Mr Comrades on the migration of agriculture. First of all, one has to hold on to the real causes. Between 1990 and 1996, the number of full-time farmers fell by 9 percent in Styria and 7 percent in the number of additional workers. In my district, the drop in full-time farmers was 10 per cent, and in the secondary-employees was 4 per cent. If you look at the different reasons for departure, you have to say quite clearly – and this is also the opinion of the farmers themselves – that social security would not change anything. Ladies and gentlemen! There are enough farmers who do not have financial problems, but whose children do not stay at home because they want to study or take another job or prefer to live in the city. There are also various reasons for a demigration in the case of auxiliary workers, such as job changes, partnership problems due to the interests of women or men in the field of leisure activities or problems in the course of the Court's transfer, i.e. where a breakdown or disbursement has to be made. There is a performance show in our district every year in the first week of May. In this performance show the farmers also offer their self-produced products for tasting. The interest is, of course, very great, and many questions are also asked. I was standing in this Koje on Sunday all morning and spoke to the various farmers about the problem of emigration. The farmers themselves also feel that if the parents fail to convince the children that the joy of working at the farm is crucial, the children do not get a relationship with this profession. The parents should highlight the importance of self-design and the fact that this profession can serve the realization of their wishes in relation to products. It should be made clear to the young people that they are not under such pressure of time in this profession and do not have to do what they are ordered to do by the superior, but can freely decide. The demand of the FPÖ for social security is a hypocritical and unrealistic one for me, because FPÖ has recently claimed to be more powerful in representing the concerns of workers, but I have never heard of the need for social protection for workers in the event of closures or for job losses. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There is also a market study in which it is found that, not the subsidy in the future, but the healthy self-confidence of young people in courtship, enforcement capacity in the market and, above all, a close connection with consumers and their trust. However, in order to gain this confidence, an unrestricted product truth is essential. That is why I would like to say once again that the demand for social security is only a farce, and Amendment No 278/A is not even worth the paper on which it was written.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e7674	Mrs Petrovic is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e7696	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to begin by submitting a motion for a resolution by the Greens on the improvement of organic farming. [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! I sometimes have the impression that there are discussions about agriculture here, that many in the back of the head still have this picture of the farm, as it is shown in children's books: the farm with a mixture structure, a bit of cereals, a bit of animal farming, of all animal species a little, and the whole has a very familiar, very beautiful, ecological character. – But the reality is partly different, ladies and gentlemen! One thing I always miss in these agricultural discussions, namely the question of what agriculture will look like in ten or 15 years. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: You can't say that today!]] There dictates hard economic laws. Mrs Tichy-Schreder! There will be no more conventional agriculture in ten to 15 years! On the one hand, there will be industrial farms, agricultural industries – and on the other hand, on the other hand, a strong branch of organic farming. And there'll be nothing left in between. This is already happening today. And all those who predominate the farmers here, there will be a bit of that, a little bit of this and a little genetic technique and a little bit of organic farming, who do not say the truth, because against that all economic statistics speak. That is why your approach to the seed law is a truly unresponsible one: Not only do you ignore the 1.2 million signatures of those who have supported the genetic engineering people's desire – the Austrian population is unfortunately already accustomed to the fact that the government does not care very much about what the population wants – the annoyance that it is also a whole profession, which is already around its existence, actually for the interests and for legitimate positions. Federal Minister! They have the responsibility to ensure that this clear separation of organic farming with appropriate support and agricultural industry in Austrian practice cannot now be realized with regard to the seed. It is incredible that, although chemical changes in the seed are to be identified, not genetic engineering. And my question is, also to the representatives of the Socialist Group: How do you respond to the promises made by your Federal Minister responsible for Consumer Protection? She explained in connection with popular desire that although she does not support popular desire – that was a clear line: no releases in Austria, no genetic engineering in agriculture and food, a careful yes to genetic engineering in medicine – she did not accept this position, but probably she advocated a complete label. Now, at once, a seed law, in which no labelling of genetically modified seed is provided, does not include any labelling of irradiated seed – and at once the SP ministers in the Council of Ministers seem to go along. I ask you: What is that, if not a breach of a promise? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This is an increase in the population if you say before: not a total rejection of releases, but no releases before we do not have a clear, indebted, non-indebted liability regime and a complete marking!, and now a new law that does not provide a label is presented and you go with it again! How far is this going to go? We have drawn your attention here in Parliament: The Genttechnik-Lobby was introduced to the ÖVP ministers, she was both Minister Molterer and Minister Bartenstein, as well as Minister Farnleitner. The representatives of AgrEvo have said quite clearly: We will expose genetically modified winter raps in autumn. In the case of the SP ministers they were no longer, they no longer need them, they can rely on them to carry everything in the Council of Ministers and here in the House. The pressure of this lobby is strong, and you have a two-thirds majority, you can decide everything. You can also break all your promises to the population. – Only: Why you are doing this, why you're falling back on your own minister, I really don't understand that. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It has already happened to us – and again and again to the existing Minister for the Environment – that it is said: Now we make a law, and all that concerns liability, and the questions that arise later on. This was the case with the genetic engineering law and with the promised inclusion in the mandatory environmental impact assessment. We know what happened then: The genetic engineering law exists, but there is no indebtedness-independent liability, and there is no environmental impact assessment. You know exactly what happens then: There is no vacuum, but every law gap, every legitimate vacuum is immediately filled up by the market. There are companies that immediately take this opportunity. In Austria, you can, in Austria, there is no liability, in Austria there is no complete marking. Wonderful! – This vacuum will be filled in immediately. And if you come in the afternoon and say, We want to identify, we want an environmental impact assessment, we want a liability!, then come immediately blackmailed arguments – I use this word consciously –: Yes, if you tighten the laws now, we will consider whether we are still investing in Austria, then we will consider whether we are not moving jobs! - You know that very well. Why do you go into this extremity? You know what's happening. If you do not, at the same time as a law, address the question of liability, the question of product identification, then it is almost impossible later, at least very, very difficult. You know the arguments of biochemistry Kundl, you know the arguments of the company Immuno, you know the arguments of the company AgrEvo. This has not happened for the first time, that is, you are consciously involved. That there is the pressure of the lobbies, you know, and you put a side of the medal on the table, thus opening a door and knowing that there will probably not be the second side or that it will be associated with infinite political difficulties. I'm really asking you: How far is this going to go? Now it concerns the seed law, in the genetic engineering law it has already happened. You will agree to this law – I accept it – you are bound to the Coalition Convention, but I really ask you: When's the liability coming? When will the environmental impact assessment come? When will the complete labelling that your own minister has promised to the population come? With a new law a promise is broken, and that is much, much worse than when we are faced with a bad old legal situation. They open up new loopholes every day, knowing that Parliament will now have to fight against massive lobbying and that it will no longer be very easy to fulfill these promises. And it also looks like political responsibility. It is clear to the population: If you vote here, then Mrs. Federal Minister Prammer, the Chancellor can say so many times: I am in favour of labelling!, quite obviously want You do not have this marking, otherwise you would not have agreed to this lazy compromise in the Council of Ministers and today in Parliament.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e7772	No one has been reported here. This concludes the debate and we are entering the voting procedure. I may ask you to take the seats. We shall now proceed to the vote, and I shall vote separately on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall first vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 671 of the Supplements. Mr Reichhold and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment here. In addition, Deputies Wabl, Ing. Reichhold and comrades tabled further amendments. First of all, I will vote on the parts concerned by the amendments and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Wabl, Ing. Reichhold and comrades have tabled an amendment to Article I(2). 2. 1. sentence, § 2 para. 2 Z 1 and § 2 para. 3 C 3 refers. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to give their consent to a corresponding sign. – This is done by the minority. The request is therefore rejected. I shall therefore vote on the above provisions as amended by the Committee's report. In the event of your consent, I would ask you to give an appropriate sign. – This is done by the majority. This request has been accepted. Deputies Ing. Reichhold and comrades have tabled an amendment concerning Article I § 15 para. 1 Z 7. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to give them their approval to give a corresponding sign. – This is done by the minority. The application is rejected. In addition, Deputies Wabl, Ing. Reichhold and comrades submit an amendment which is also based on Article I, § 15 para. 1 C 7. I ask those ladies and gentlemen of the House who wish to vote in favour of this sign. – This is done by the minority. The request is therefore rejected. I leave immediately on Article I § 15 para. 1 Z7 vote in favour of the Committee's report. In the event of your consent, I would ask you to give an appropriate sign. – This is done by the majority. This request has been accepted. Since the remaining parts of this draft law contain a constitutional provision, I shall first put it in accordance with § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure set out the constitutional number of Members. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to give their consent to this, to give an appropriate sign. – This is adopted by a majority. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to give their approval to the draft law at third reading to give an appropriate sign. – This too is done by the majority. I once again note the constitutionally required two-thirds majority. The draft law is largely adopted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report. In the event of your consent, I would ask you to give an appropriate sign. – This is done by the majority. Accepted. (E 55.) We shall also proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Ing. Langthaler and comrades concerning the placing on the market of seeds for the conservation of plant genetic resources. In the event of your consent, I would ask you to give an appropriate sign. – This is done by the minority. The application is rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Wabl and Mr Comrades on biological seed research. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done by the minority. The request is therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 673 of the Supplements. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill. – This is the majority. The request was accepted. We shall therefore come to the third reading immediately. In the event of your third-reading approval, I would also like to ask you for an appropriate sign. – This is done by the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Wabl and Mr Comrades on the introduction of a levy on pesticides. In the event of your consent, I ask you for a sign to be given. – This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry to take note of its report 676 of the supplements, taking into account the print error correction submitted by the rapporteur. In the event of your consent, I would ask you to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. I accept Amendment No 384/A (E) to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. We are now voting on the request of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry to take note of its report 677 of the supplements. In the event of your consent, I ask you for a sign to be given. – This is done by the majority. The report has been adopted. We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry to take note of its report 678 of the supplements. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done by the majority. Accepted. I shall now vote on the request from the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry to take note of its report 679 of the supplements. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done by the majority. Accepted. 7. Point Report of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on the Government template (400 of the supplements): Federal Law amending the Law on the Law on Water Law in 1959 (672 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e8006	Mein Ladies and gentlemen of the House! We're now on the 7th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Aumayr has spoken. 8 minutes of voluntary time limit. – Please, Mrs Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e8033	Mr President. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! How do you feel if you have just agreed to a law with which exactly the opposite of what you have called for with your signature among the genetic engineering peoples, namely the labelling of genetically modified seeds? [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Bad!]] How do you feel when you do such a total crasher? It is really incomprehensible to me how to change one's mind within a month, and this in the hope that people outside will not notice it. You can be sure: We'll tell people! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Now to the water law novice landfills. The environmental spokesman of the ÖVP, Mr Head of Parliament, has acted as a postman in this law. He came out of the country with a clear order to amend the water law law, because this would have liked the Vorarlbergers. And the most important demand from the Landle was to extend the deadline for depositing household waste from 2004 to 2008. Angry protests from the other federal states were the result, but Vorarlberg and Vienna have prevailed. The reason for the country protest is not easy to wipe away, Mr Kopf. The competent national councils in the other Länder really feel "planted" because they do not know very slowly what they are supposed to stick to. [[Abg. Head: The FPÖ Council of State in Vorarlberg not!]] Mr. Kopf! You will not want to explain to me that you have been introduced to the Federal Government for a change of law, because this was what the FPÖ Council of State Gorbach wanted. That's going to be You really don't want to explain to me! There should be other interests behind that! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The other national councils really feel "planted" because they have followed the Federal Government and started the transition. Now they have massive problems because they have invested in waste burning, and now the deadline for the landfills has simply been extended. They have invested, they have bound millions of schilling, and they will also have difficulties in the economic exploitation of the garbage kilns, as they will not have enough waste. This is clear, of course, if there is still a great need to continue to be deposited. But you probably don't care about these things at all, but real self-interests play a role there. It is clear from a letter written by Mr Landesrat Aichinger that state councils have protested massively against these water law novels. Mr Landesrat Aichinger from Upper Austria, responsible for the landfills, writes: "However, from fundamental considerations, I still think that a false signal is a departure from the goal which has been sought so far to come to the post-care-free deposit as quickly as possible. I am still convinced that an orderly waste management will not really be feasible if derogations are granted. Therefore, I can only continue to support the version that was sought at the time and can address the urgent appeal to you" – to you, Federal Minister! ==References== 1. 2004 for the adaptation of existing approved landfills to the Deposit Regulation." – Just the opposite of what Mr Landesrat Aichinger has asked for, you decide today! Federal Minister! It is strange how quickly you are prepared to amend the Water Law Act if only proper pressure is put on the countries, but this is not the case if the same law is to be amended in order to finally remove entirely clear disadvantages to agriculture. It is a blatant injustice to ask farmers to take water protection measures, the consequences of which are, of course, management requirements. They are ordered, resulting in massive income losses. And in doing so, the farmers demand 20 percent of their own. This means that the farmer himself has to finance income losses of up to 20 percent. Which professional group is still supposed to be such a blatant disparity? Minister for Agriculture! Just be your name and office, and at last get this heavenly injustice out of the world! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] To this end, the Liberals shall submit the following additional request: Amendment tabled by Mr Aumayr, Mr Ing. Reichhold, Koller, Wenitsch, Dr. Salzl and colleagues concerning the Federal Law amending the Water Law Act 1959 (Law No. No. of the Laws) The National Council wants to decide: The Government template referred to in the title 400 of the Supplements as amended in the Committee's report 672 of the Supplements is amended as follows: 1. § 33f para. 6 first sentence reads: "(6) If from a regulation in accordance with para. 3 The Federal Minister for Agriculture and Forestry grants to grow serious economic disadvantages in the otherwise legitimate use of land and land resulting in a reduction in income The 1996 harvest, according to the respective Federal estimates, grants up to 50 percent of the proven income reduction resulting from this, if at least the same amount of aid is granted on the part of the country concerned." 2. § 31d para. 7 not applicable. I appeal, above all, to the representatives of the ÖVP or the Farmers' Federation, at last to show the flag and to help to ensure that agriculture is really out of the world when it comes to environmental protection measures.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e8110	The request just read has been properly submitted, is supported accordingly and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Auer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 10 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e8134	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It was interesting what Mr Aumayr said about part of the Water Law Act, and it was particularly interesting what was supposed to happen at the beginning of today's agenda on the part of the Greens and the Blues. [[Interlocutory call to the liberals]] It was said that it was not important for this important environmental law to be put off the agenda. That was a revelation of how seriously one takes the environmental protection and the restoration of the water! [[Abg. Aumayr: That's ridiculous!]] But we're used to that. We are used to the fact that, of course, such important things would be sacrificed for a cheap political spectacle. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Interesting was something else, and that's remarkable: Mr Aumayr argued that he had been "Ambassadors" of the state of Vorarlberg. Well, on the other hand, I have nothing at all. It is also the task of a Member of Parliament to achieve optimal laws for his federal state. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Reichhold.]] Here he is accused of trying to enforce the interests of the state of Vorarlberg. [[Abg. Aumayr: What are your interests?]] This was the interest of the Blue Council of State in Vorarlberg, so that he can cover his misguided environmental policy a little. Also interesting is: Today I hear for the first time that you should go on the path of burning, thermal recovery and so on. [[Abg. Aumayr: No!]] That's where you should go. And in Salzburg, I heard, the FPÖ has supported all the citizens' initiatives that have taken place against the burning. In Carinthia, on the other hand, the blue councillor advertises for the combustion. You should agree on what you want: Do you want that, you want that, or do you want something else? Tell us once, then you can do more purposely! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: On the other hand, in plenary session!]] [[Abg. Aumayr: But you voted against it in committee!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I'll hold on to this. We are adopting an important law today. This water law novel allows for landfill adaptation. I am clear, and with this I can also answer your interlocutors that I and my colleague in the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry voted against. However, we have clearly stated, as the Minutes say, and as deaf as you may not be, that, if the concerns of Upper Austria are removed in this context, an approval will be given here in the plenary session. This has happened, therefore, this law is a compromise; that is no question at all. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Died again!]] This compromise is very narrow and ultimately sets clear targets. It is also stated, ladies and gentlemen, that Mr Molterer, Federal Minister of the Interior, the concept of "contained waste" in § 31d para. Paragraph 2 of the decision clarifyes that household waste, bulky waste or household-like commercial waste is covered by this term. It is important that waste is not only covered by the waste but also the waste to be disposed of by the waste owner himself of similar types and methods of reaction. I'll hold it again. One could say that it is a compromise between Vienna and Vorarlberg, with which Upper Austria can live in the middle. I also urge you to take account of the fact that an improvement in support will not only be possible for new installations but also for those plants which have already been de facto set up as pilot plants. I just call it a keyword in Wels. I should like to make it clear that it is not possible to stay on the road to waste treatment. And if the thermal installations cannot be used properly because of short-term cost of landfilling, it is in the interest of the common good to prevent this. For all of us, ladies and gentlemen, must keep in mind: We need to go more towards sustainability. Let us not conceal the high environmental costs that the deposit entails! Let's go the honest way! What it weighs, it does. And thermal recovery is simply the better technology for the future. We should not seal, deposit, and then put up difficulties in the groundwater sector, so that, in the end, taxpayers are burdened with high recovery costs. Upper Austria, I think, has acted exemplaryly here, it has been a pioneer in this area, and we should not fail to achieve these objectives because of or precisely despite the compromise by these novels. An essential step towards transparent garbage calculation is necessary so that the costs of collecting and treating waste can be presented separately. And another addition, ladies and gentlemen: The best waste disposal is the waste prevention. That's where we're all in demand and demanded. 40 years ago, no one took care of this question. It was the time of construction. Today is the time of the garbage mountain. Wealth also brings with it garbage. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Why don't you introduce the pledge system?]] It is therefore necessary to achieve a change of attitude, a change of consciousness. – We of the ÖVP like to agree to this law – even if you still make such loud calls!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e8282	Mr Dr Kier is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e8304	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make two comments on the legislation on water law. Point one: This compromise, which my previous speaker has now presented, was apparently a compromise at the last moment, as the deadline for 2004 to 2008 was only presented in the last minute. It's the way it is, but I'm stuck. The whole "architecture" of the law and the philosophy of the old-age recovery contributions were aimed at the year 2004. In the fractional discussion we have also dealt with the total cost. I'm reminding you: These are significant total amounts, which are current costs which are effective in several respects, although they seem to serve to avoid even higher costs by a later removal of damage that we ourselves generate. But this "architektur" is slipped, and a federal country such as Upper Austria, which has set itself quite clearly on the schedules, ultimately suffers a competitive disadvantage due to the time-limitation. Well, Vorarlberg may be far away. I am simply of the opinion, however, that the time limit is necessary where more time is needed to do the same thing that others have done in a shorter period of time. And I simply cannot accept that this is seen positively. I understand that those who needed the compromise had to get him to bring their own slowness into the law, so to speak. But it is unfortunate if, in this case, suddenly some kind of pseudopheralism, I say, rages. It is true that the country is taking care of its own shortcomings and is striving for a longer period of time. But They should have taken care that the failures do not occur at all. I do not think that the other federal states will be able to take time in the future with similar materials, because after all, we may have to re-improve the time limit, but you know what I mean. It is understandable that the compromise must be made so that all of this fits into the law, but in the lower old-age rehabilitation contributions, for example, which now have different effects – in the countries which may have longer periods, more favourable, in the other worse – no change has been made. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Now I come to a point that is of particular concern to us because it is a matter of not having an impact on the people who ultimately have to pay it. In the longer-term federal states, the burden on those affected has now been extended, and more is paid for the same result, for a result that could be achieved in other federal states in a shorter period, and that is a pity. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e8356	Mr Brix has now been reported to the House. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e8377	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If my previous speaker, Mr Kier, when he said, among other things, that the federal states need a longer period of time to comply with the required conditions, so that Vienna also meant, I would like to offer him a joint tour through Vienna to show him the current state of play of the Federal Capital, how it operates its facilities and how exemplary it disposes of waste. That's one thing. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: And at the Rautenweg?]] – A patterned landfill with two incinerators in addition and with a special waste burning plant. I'll tell you one thing in advance: I very much welcome this law, because now we can finally reorganise all the existing facilities. It is not only about the facilities that have to be set up under the new law, but now it is finally concluded that you throw the whole glumper at the "guests" that you go to some dump where you get rid of the trash at dumping prices. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: And then why is it extended?]] - Wait, I'll tell you right now! – I’m calling myself a garbage incinerator, because there’s no way through it. Look at Germany and Switzerland, there are such plants with a proper disposal. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Why do you want to extend?]] Why do you want to extend? Because you can extend it if you don't make it in the planned period. If you build a new combustion plant today, it is only with the citizens. I think we all confess that we can't do anything against the citizen, and that's why we need to look for a new location if necessary. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is also necessary to have the citizens' consent for a new location. One cannot simply build such a "hutt'n" in two years. A waste burning plant is not a sbergartenhüschen, but that is something reasonable, something necessary. If the Greens call for this item to be withdrawn from the agenda today, they will confess that their policy of disposal has simply failed. A mechanical-biological disposal plant, as they suggested by the Greens, just doesn't work. Again: There is no way past a decent combustion plant. [[Abg. Aumayr: A decent combustion plant? Inappropriate incinerator?]] Federal Minister! I therefore think that we should consider whether there should be any support for proper combustion plants. One could use the money one has planned to increase the cleaning of the treatment plants. I do not think that is necessary because our treatment plants already have a very high degree of cleaning. The money provided for this could therefore be spent on the promotion of waste-incinerators. Ladies and gentlemen! This law will help to ensure that in the future we really get our old loads under control, that we have proper landfills, so that something is not simply thrown down somewhere. This law will lead us to pursue a waste disposal policy that is environmentally friendly and serves the public. I believe that this law, which is a real improvement, can only be accepted.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e8476	Mrs Ing. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Langthaler. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e8497	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In the first place, I would like to stress that the Greens have always welcomed the original objectives of this novel. The first objective was that the landfills should also be rehabilitated accordingly, which are not to be rehabilitated in accordance with the landfill regulation, according to the AWG and adapted to the state of the art, and also to improve the state of approval for landfills. We have repeatedly emphasized this in the past long negotiations. On the one hand, our criticism was that the negotiations were too long, and on the other hand the derogation for the two countries, especially Vorarlberg and Vienna, that the deadline from 2004 to 2008 was finally negotiated. And we know that it is about periods of time when this law will eventually become effective at all, that we do not want to decide this item on the agenda today, but the next time we wanted a detailed debate on yesterday's Kurd reports, which is absurd. Of course, we want these water law novels in principle. If you look at the history of these water law novels, if you look at how long and laborious the negotiations were and when these essential objectives and thus the effectiveness are achieved, you know, your argument that we wanted to prevent an absolutely necessary ecological improvement is completely absurd. Let me comment very briefly on the associated waste combustion plants for household waste. Mr Brix! I still have no reason to change the green position that we are against the burning of waste. They mentioned Germany as an example. In particular, this has led to the creation of existing products. I remember all that we have discussed about household waste prevention especially in those areas that are heat-relevant, and there it is primarily plastic. The construction of domestic waste combustion plants, not only in Austria, but especially in Germany and other European countries, has, of course, opened the door to even more plastic production. [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: Denmark!]] Mr Brix! A lot of things we want to use. paper, which is heat-relevant, we don't want to have in the house trash, that's what we're going to use. The Vegetabilia, which is a large group, which accounts for around 30 percent, are breaking the whole plant, which we do not want in at all. In the end, we also want to reuse and compost them. The glass doesn't really have something to look for in a house trash incinerator, which only makes problems, just like the vegetarians. Therefore: out and recycle. What really remains of large groups, on the one hand, is plastic and on the other hand, a waste that we can discuss. There you can also discuss whether you burn it, treat it thermally, or whatever, but not through a total waste burning plant. I'm much more interested in concepts that exist in different federal states, where it's about waste-splitting and where, combined with thermal recycling, also the targeted exploitation of others... [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: That's what Wels is doing!]] Mr Doppelmüller! Recently, a waste meeting took place in which an operator of the Wels waste plant also participated. He complained that this investment was the first cause of a huge deficit that this plant is in no way profitable that it has been fully calculated there. [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: But the splitting they do!]] With the compulsion to burn waste They avoid competition that allows mechanical-biological installations that enable those fractions that remain to be disposed of in landfills after the state of the art, which are now also regulated by the Water Law Act – analogous to the regulation in the landfill regulation and in the AWG. [[Abg. Brix: It's crashed! There's no such thing as that!]] At the same time, one should, of course, allow the attempt to be made with waste-incinerators. We don't want a dirigist ban. At present, however, you do not allow such a competition at all, a competition between different possibilities. I believe that mechanical-biological installations will prevail if the price is to be decided. And it is also possible to have waste fractions that do not cause any problems on the landfill. I am not at all in favour of us staying at reactor ponies, as we have so far had them, with huge emissions of gas, with sicker water formations, with high costs in sicker water treatment and with methane capture. We don't want to. We also want landfills, where only those cargoes are brought that are no longer highly reactive. I agree with you that, but I do not believe that this can be achieved exclusively through the combustion of waste. On the contrary: I believe that it is ecologically, but also economically more useful, to build mechanical-biological plants in particular and to promote them in accordance with the law. [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: Go on!]] But you don't. Therefore, No to total house waste burning, a yes to waste sharing, in parts a yes to this water law novel. However, due to this delay of four years, we are unfortunately unable to agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e8593	Mr Dr. Doppelmüller has now been reported on the floor. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e8614	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I am delighted by the change of my mind in the Greens, which I have been following for some time. It is about a year and a half ago that the Moser, at an event of that time, has already admitted publicly that it is in itself also of the opinion that waste burning, as far as emissions are concerned, is as unclean, but, like Mr Langthaler, it has had concerns that waste incineration is, so to speak, too short. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] – The colleague Moser, who was with the Greens. No one can explain to me that no one knows that in the landfills that we now have and which are currently coming out on devils are only filled out, any avoiding effect takes place. But we are already moving on a line, and it is also not the line of the Social Democrats to build domestic waste incinerators, where everything is mixed in. Mrs Langthaler, you know very well that modern technology looks exactly as in Wels, where it is separated. And therefore, colleague Langthaler, there are plants like in Lenzing that burn waste, light fraction, plastic, which is no longer useful in any other form. The mechanical-biological systems, Mrs. Langthaler – you probably know that when you've been working on it – are at best suitable for onset, but you will need combustion, and the concepts will also go in this direction, for example with the Salzburgians and with the Welsers. That's where we're on a line. However, as in environmental policy at all, the attitude of the liberals is very contradictory. Unfortunately, Mr Schweitzer is not here. It has already been mentioned by Mr Brix a little bit today about the attitude towards waste burning. I have seen that Mr Altlandeshuptmann-Representative Reichhold and Mr Altlandeshuptmann Haider have nodded to the fact that Mr Brix spoke in favour of forcing the combustion of waste. I have not noticed this with Mrs Aumayr, whom I very much appreciate otherwise. There are, of course, different views here. In the Styria, I read in a newspaper article, the blues are just a bit of a coincidence. They're moving away from the trash burning again. ==References====External links==* Official website ==References== So there's obviously something going on. Perhaps you, Mr Reichhold, could take a bit of an influence here after you yourself, as the head of state, had a study on thermal treatment, presented them and carried out carinthia in this direction. We are innovationizing water law today, and there is also a certain contradiction in this context. I read here on my note: 1990 Rejection of water law by the FPÖ under Dillersberger on the grounds that the water law novels are too toothless. In 1994, the FPÖ demands under Klubobmann Dr. Haider that water law be changed because it is too strict for citizens. So you hop around here. But it is actually difficult. I have tried to explain to the committee what it really is about. I obviously didn't succeed. I'll try it again; Mr Brix has already explained it. I believe that there is a broad consensus in the direction that we need this adaptation of the landfills, because most of the landfills still in operation are not subject to the regime of the Waste Management Act and the Landfill Regulation, but to water law. Many projects to be renovated are currently "hanging" with the highest water law authority. There is no decision there because these new foundations are not yet available, and therefore, for the time being, huge investment resources are blocked, and on the other hand, no waste burner dares to start building such plants because it does not know what is happening. And there was a problem, caused by the liberal councillor Gorbach, who boasted – I take that away from the "Economic Sheet" of 26. March 1997, that's not long ago! – that it has recently approved a landfill with a volume of 800 000 cubic metres at the final stage of expansion. For this landfill, the country of Vorarlberg, driven by Gorbach, took over liabilities in the order of 500 million Schilling. That is why the Vorarlbergers have now rightly become illegitimate and wanted to come in. It is clear: Gorbach, the blue councillor, pushed her in there. That's what happened. And how did we get out of there? – To clarify this, too, because colleague Aumayr meant that the other councils had already invested millions of schilling. So: Firstly, they have no investment at all, and secondly, they will be billions of schilling. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Wels!]] Yes, please, Wels, but not the councils! Wels has problems. In other words, our interest must be to stop dumping on the landfills. We do this at the small price that we meet the Vorarlbergers that a mistake of a "blue" council of states can be solved a little because the dung of Vorarlberg is actually nebulous. It is important that all other landfills be adapted so that the combustion plants finally become competitive. In fact, there will be the exception only for the Vorarlberger landfill, and that does not tang at all. This method with sugar bread and whips, that all those who treat the vast majority in 2004, i.e. more than 50 percent, thermally, I think is good, because they have to start, otherwise they will not make it. They also do not need to burn it in their own country, they only have to treat it thermally. And that will make a move. If we complement this with a promotion model, perhaps for thermal installations that stand up to 2004, then we are certainly on a good path. The compromise was necessary. He will contribute to the fact that, I say quite openly, the Wels combustion plant, which, from the standard, I believe, is absolutely in the forefront of the world, does not break or go into bankruptcy because it is suffering from the cheap landfills, and he will contribute to the construction of the other plants at last. The Socialist Group – but we all agree quite unanimously here – will insist that the 2004 date be respected, that there are only minor necessary exceptions, for very few areas. Such an area is just Vorarlberg. It could be that, because the procedures may take a long time, especially in agglomerations, it is overrun, but they do not have to reach by 2008 at all, but perhaps only until 2005, and then the third facility in Vienna stands. By the way, Vienna has already provided two plants, which – as Mr Brix is quite right – has already achieved a huge performance. So I'm optimistic. This innovation is, as it were, the second part of a three-part reform work. We have decided on the first part before Christmas, and with the third part, which we hope will be decided before the summer, I believe that we will again have gone on with a nice piece on the path of a modern waste policy. We welcome this novel. We are glad that it is possible to decide today, because this is an unsustainable state in the waste policy, in the waste management we hope will soon end and belong to the past.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e8662	The next speech is by Mr Ing. Reichhold. Voluntary time limit: 8 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e8683	Mr. Federal Minister! High house! I recognise the efforts made to extend the AWR regime, according to which only new plants should be authorised to extend through the Water Law Act. I just think you've set the wrong signal now. The aim is to store only more inert substances in 2004; I think we agree on this. On the fact that there must be no further old loads in the future, we also agree. Only: Especially at this time, at which many federal states are in the middle of the preparation for Day X to decide on such a law, I do not think it useful. This will cause many to stop preparing. [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: No!]] Of course you will. You yourself have admitted here at the speaker's desk that there will be many who will then be looking for an exception. I do not believe that this is just a Lex Vorarlberg, but rather I believe that this is a plumper cow trade between Vorarlberg and Vienna, because it is obvious that Vienna also has problems finding future locations. [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: No, there is no one!]] What the thermal waste recovery is about, I recognize, but only when there is a previous prevention and separation strategy. I am convinced that we must go this way. We are very different, Mr Doppelmüller, between the basic question of waste disposal and local discussions when it comes to suitable locations. The fact that there is a discussion about the fact that there are also free citizens' initiatives, such as those in Salzburg, which fight against a bad location, you must admit to us. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: You are against any location!]] I can easily disprove this claim. There are two congregations in Carinthia that even apply for the site, and in one of them is a mayor of freedom, in the municipality of Mölbling. This argument is also rejected. I believe that this law today sets the wrong signal, so that those who are really trying in the preparation to carry out proper waste management are remedied, and that it does not create orderly competitive conditions, but that only a few who seem to have very good contacts will be given the opportunity to do quite good business in the future. [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: I don't think so!]]
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e8759	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Molterer. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e8780	Mr President. High house! First of all, I would like to make it clear that this amendment will not be agitated by the date 2004. The 2004 date remains constant. A regulation empowerment for the head of state in the amendment proposal is normized that, under certain conditions which are very clearly and relatively narrowly defined in the amendment proposal, the head of state may extend the deadline until 2008 by means of a regulation. That is to say, no one is forced to adopt this regulation, and, secondly, no one is forced to use the deadline until 2008. I think this is a reasonable regulation because it deals flexibly with the situation in the individual countries. It is not Lex federal X, but this regulatory authorisation applies if the conditions for it are appropriate. Secondly, We made an important clarification in December with regard to the area of rehabilitation and the consideration of voluntary environmental programmes in the rehabilitation area. This is a very important requirement for measures in the field of rehabilitation to be based on voluntary programmes, which are also supported accordingly, such as the Austrian environmental programme. Therefore, from the point of view of agriculture, this was a very important change, which has also been very much relativized by some other questions that have already been raised today. Thirdly, On the basis of the Government's proposal, I assume that before the summer we can take the third stage of a comprehensive legislation on water law, taking into account many other wishes, such as the wishes of the municipalities. So we can say that we have taken a good and important step in this three-tone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e8818	Mr Wenitsch is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e8840	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, once again I have to show clearly the wasteful qualities of the ÖVP, especially of you, Mr Schwarzböck. I have here a letter from the Presidential Conference of the Chambers of Agriculture, dated 31. January 1996. Mr President. In this letter you clearly require: The provisions of § 33 para. 6, according to which a reduction of up to 20 per cent in income is expected in the case of groundwater rehabilitation measures, should be abolished. In addition, all property disadvantages are charged in protected and protected areas. So far, so good. I am clearly on a line with you. But how do you act when it comes to implementing these demands that you, as chairman, are carrying out? Request by the Freemans in the Chamber of State. April 1996: clearly a request from the Liberal Group, § 33 para. 6 to be deleted. – Rejected, of course, with the votes of the ÖVP. If you understand me, Mr President, it cannot go on. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Further: President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: – Rejected by the votes of the ÖVP and the Social Democrats. Further: Mr Aumayr's request here in plenary. – Rejected by the votes of the ÖVP and the Social Democrats. Today, this request will be submitted again. Mr Schwarzböck! I'll give you the chance – maybe you've failed in the last few months, your letter from 31. To conclude by January, it should be – with your colleagues from the ÖVP, to support this request by Mr Aumayr. If you don't do this, Mr. Cot, I'll put you in charge of farming. [[Calls:Hello, hello]] I continue to propose that you have fallen-off quality, and I recommend that you withdraw from the farmers' representatives so as not to continue to be a barrier to farmers' concerns.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e8879	Mr Schwarzböck. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e8901	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Wenitsch has just said that I would act differently as a representative of interest and as a parliamentarian, and he has quoted a request made by the Liberal Group in the Assembly of the Lower Austrian Chamber of Agriculture. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold and Abg. Aumayr:And in Parliament!]] I can tell you that we have examined the request made by the Liberal Group in the Chamber of Agriculture in Lower Austria. He is legally fully covered by the novelle of the water law law law of December, was word-identical and thus irresistible. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Wrong! Actually, then!]] 14.4 8
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e8946	No one is reported in the word anymore. That concludes the debate. A final word of the rapporteur is not wanted. We are entering the voting procedure. . I ask the honourable Members to take their place and all the other non-voting members to leave the plenary session. We shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 672 of the Supplements. Mr Aumayr and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment and an amendment. First of all, I will vote on the parts concerned by the applications and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Aumayr and Comrades had the deletion of paragraph 3 (31d) para. 7 requested. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are standing in for this to be a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. This request is therefore rejected. I leave immediately on paragraph 3 § 31d para. 7 as amended by the Committee's report. In the event of approval, I would ask for an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. Members of the Aumayr and Comrades have an additional request concerning § 33f para. 6 first sentence. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to vote in favour of this motion for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to give them their approval to give a corresponding sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. We shall come to the third reading. Whoever would like to give his approval to this draft law at third reading, I would ask him to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. 8. Point Report of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on the 1995 Austrian Forest Report (III-69/674 of the Supplements) 9. Point Report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on the motion for a resolution 180/A by Mr Mag. Helmut Peterund Comrades concerning the amendment of the Forest Act 1975, BGBl. No. 440/1975, as last amended by BGBl. No. 970/1993 (675 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e9045	Ladies and gentlemen! We now come to points 8 and 9 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are entering the debate. The first speech is by Mr Grollitsch. 8 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e9075	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I am grateful for the opportunity to deal with the 1995 forest report and Mr Peter's request for the use of forest roads in one, because the two areas of the subject have much to do with each other, more than you might expect at first sight. The increasing pushing out of the leisure industry, the recreational sports in our forests brings a burden with it. The 1995 forest report has not taken account of these aspects. The Committee's report merely states that the public should be aware of the fact that forest use also contains rights and obligations for the conservation and promotion of the forest ecosystem. However, I am not satisfied with this shy committee statement. I believe that in future we should take in another part of the forest report, one that will highlight the influence of the leisure industry on our forest. In particular, the problem of the fight and protection forest is to be seen. We find out in the forest report about the enormous damage to traffic. There is a clear link between the stress effect in our game and the damage to traffic. This is also the case with the Gems. The criticism of the forest report is generally broader. This forest report lacks up-to-date. You should know, ladies and gentlemen, that the 1996 forest report is already ready. It delivers much more up-to-date and threatening numbers. However, due to the rigour of the Central Statistical Office, it is not yet available to the House. Like so many other reports, he'll depend on it for a year. There are already figures from the January of this year from the Forestry Experimental Institute, which clearly relativize the results of 1995, which in sum represent a kind of jubilation report. Thus we learned from the "Holzkurier" of the Bundesperigsanstalt already in January of this year that the condition of the fir and oak in 1996 has significantly deteriorated, that the state of the spruce has slightly deteriorated, that only the larch has a somewhat stable state that the pine can be registered. The biggest damage to the oak is recorded with an increase of more than 10 percent in 1996. The condition of the book is also shown to be moderately worse in the report of the Federal Office. Not so much the fact of the marked deterioration in 1996 should make the alarm bells ring, but the fact that the yield per mass meter recorded in the 1995 forest report is no longer sustainable at 42 s. For the first time in the forestry sector, the 1996 calculations have produced a chicken in the red figures. On average, 20 to 30 S loss per solid meter is demonstrated. This is a very threatening situation, which, of course, has different reasons. It is clear to me that we cannot change this with a consideration of this report and with words from this point of view, but we should at least have done so and said it. The causes of the logging in the forestry sector are, on the one hand, to look for cheap roundwood imports from the eastern reform states, on the other hand, in the increasing conversion of the paper industry to waste paper, which is imported almost half to Austria. Finally, the cost explosion in the delivery area is depressing on the forestry industry. There is hardly any other round wood that is available for profit or cost-covering purposes. These are the conditions under which we stand in 1996/97. Of course, those responsible are aware that this is the case. It's fire on the roof. It is necessary for forestry to be able to bring the wood that is actually ready for impact, and not to pass through the detour of, for example, sandwood or wood that is as close as possible to the forest roads. The 1995 forest report also shows that 83 per cent of the rejuvenated areas are severely damaged and that the rejuvenation and care of the forests is in a bad way. These conditions – and I now come to the subject of Mr Peter's request – also have a connection with the expanding leisure industry, with the conquest of forests by hiking, mountain climbing and so on. You probably know that the most popular leisure activities of the Austrian are the hiking, mountain climbing and climbing in nature – thank God, I say right away. Whether you need the new sport of the "Schluchting" in order to use the last niche is also in question. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] The ski run – especially the variant ski run, the touring and cross-country skiing – is getting started. The mountain biking – the special theme of colleague Peter in his request – and the off-road biking are also increasing sharply. Also, air sports, such as paragliding, have an impact on the stress situation of the wild and on the resulting loss. The fact that the mountain biking is still booming and that this sport is mostly practiced in a legally prohibited form is an anachronistic fact in view of the fact that the present colleague Grabner told us almost two years ago that he is able to provide us with the legal basis for the exercise of this sport in the short term. Mr Grabner! They would have to do nothing more than support the freedom of movement on this issue, then we would have the legal conditions, as the Tyroleans have now created themselves in their own direction. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e9149	I am now interrupting the negotiations on points 8 and 9 of the agenda so that the requested and announced examination of a urgent request can be called at 3 p.m. in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. Request for urgent procedure by Dr. Haider and Comrades on Postschacher and Freunderwirtschaft 454/A (E)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e9178	We now come to the urgent treatment of the self-employed application 454/A (E). As he has now approached all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the writer. The urgent application has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e9233	I give the floor to Mr Dr. Haider as the first applicant to justify this request. According to § 74a para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 20 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e9254	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Federal Chancellor! In recent weeks, a lot has been done on questions of staff discussion, triggered by the tragic event of suicide of one of the leading bank managers in a state bank. And no less than the socialist manager Woltron has made it clear on television that it is the consequences of a cynical and, as he has said, humane system of the red-black proporze and the party book economy. If Woltron has put this so brutally into the room, then on the other hand, one does not understand that the bank managers, such as the Director-General of Bank Austria, have gone away with such cold and excessiveness over the suicide and that one is now trying to do from your point of view, Mr Bundeskanzler, as if one had nothing to do with it at all! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no! [[Abg. May. Stadler: (German Chancellor Mag. Climate that speaks to Klubobmann Dr. Kostelka) Is that necessary?]] [[Federal Chancellor Mag. Climate: That I'm there?]] That Kostelka whispers into your ear so you can't dedicate your attention to me! [[Abg. May. Stadler: We have agreed in the President that we shall do this! Otherwise, let us interrupt the meeting and wait until Mr Klubobmann has stopped discussing with the Federal Chancellor.]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Federal Chancellor! I would like to thank you for taking the time to listen to a little, because I would like to ask you whether you really believe that it is enough to present and say a five-point programme now: The story is renovated. Commodities You are not even the one who has insisted quite massively that the ex-minister Scholten, who is removed from the Federal Government, should receive a new post at the Austrian Control Bank, where even a third post was created, because the Rochade proved to be a bit complicated? Are you not the one who has repeatedly demonstrated to himself in recent years that, in principle, he is subject to objectiveness, tendering and qualification when it comes to making personal party policy decisions? No Less Than Her former Secretary of State Dipl.-Ing. Brenner has even been used as Director-General in the new rail financing company! Where has this post been advertised? In addition, Mr Brenner is at the same time Director General of HL-Bau – a completely incompatible situation! On the one hand, he manages the money, on the other hand he is the Director-General, who collects the money for the projects. That was your work, too, Mr. Federal Chancellor, when you were still ministers. You were Minister of Finance, you were also Minister of Transport! They are the negotiators of different models. This model of rail infrastructure financing also carries your handwriting, and the persons have been selected. Her former secretary Székely says it quite openly in a newspaper interview: When I was no longer pleased to be Secretary of State, I told the climate that I wanted to change orderly. – It is obviously enough to say climate: I would like to change orderly, because in no time he was the Director-General of the Raber Railway – without a call for tender, no problem at all. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Swups!]] That's why I'm saying: These five commandments, which you have now issued with this five-point programme, Mr. Federal Chancellor, are more of a debt admission, a flight forward, than a real rehabilitation of a state in the form of a new one coming and saying: Now I'm taking it! – You are part of an old system, you have become guilty by yourself, through many actions, to the effect that this red and black proporz in Austria celebrates joyous originals again! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I say quite frankly to you: Before you are not willing to eliminate your own last sin, your five commandments will not benefit you at all! First, remove the fall of sin Scholten! Pull him back! Eliminate the fall of sin, not the person! Mr Novotny! [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: What does "removing" mean?]] You must listen or remove your hearing protection! [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Chancellor! Eliminate the fall of sin Scholten as Director of the Austrian Control Bank! Then you are credible with your five-point program! Because it has now gone too far: With the ÖBB, the position of a fifth director has to be created, because the ÖVP is otherwise dissatisfied, and in the E-Economy the number of directors has doubled once – from two to four. You've been in government for five years! You can't escape that! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fuchs.]] The ASAG is founded by two societies, one red and one black, so that all ministers are provided. At the Austro Control there is a red Director-General and a black deputy, the former secretary of Mrs Fekter. It must be accommodated! And since we've distributed the Austro Control so to speak, we've been increasing for it – swoops! – the fees for use by 800 percent! That's a "fine" process of yours! Ladies and gentlemen! I therefore believe that the rule of the secretaries established at the top of the state created an unsustainable situation at the Austrian Control Bank and the ORF, the post office and also in the state banks. For when Mr. Scholten says according to diary records by Mr. Praschak: We are not in New York and London, where the personal performance is crucial for a function, but rather we decide politics!, it shows what thought behind it. [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is crazy!]] The safety risk Praschak had to go because he did not want to participate in the cover-up of the tax evasions that took place in the control bank in recent years, and therefore the former Haschek Secretary, Scholten, who had already worked there, and the former Haschek Secretary Attems, was established there: The latter do not represent a safety risk, they cover up and not up. But you've paid off, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You have therefore settled because no one can guarantee you which documents will still come to the public! And we will look very carefully, Minister of Finance, whether you will allow the financial management to carry out the current large-scale audit in the Austrian Control Bank without political intervention. Give the way so that it can be fully examined whether there has been millions of tax evasion here in the face of the Minister for Finance! If you do not allow this, you may experience the bad surprise that suddenly something appears that proves something else! [[Abg. Haigermoser: That's a Gretchen question!]] Ladies and gentlemen! This reign of the secretaries was not successful. Not in the Austro control, not in the banking areas. The Polish budget has so far been burdened by 11 billion schilling. That's not possible anymore. East aid actions: Of the 105 billion schilling, about 70 to 75 billion schilling are infallible. This is paid by the Austrian taxpayers! This is the great policy of the secretaries at the heads of state and financial administration! Because 600 million schillings are collected from liability commissions from those export companies that want to secure loans when they export. Then you choose a system that requires a transfer of the credit from the control bank to the home bank so that a home bank commission can be collected again, again about 600 million schilling! Federal Chancellor! If you like with your export offensive If you were serious, then you would intervene in this impossible system of the Austrian Control Bank and ensure that a billion schilling does not go in favour of the banks, but remains with the companies so that they are more competitive! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Chancellor! Then you would ensure that these state banks are not abused by the rule of the secretaries to carry out party financing! It is nothing else if, for example, the Austrian postal savings bank bought by 200 million Schilling the shares of the "consum" in the Austrian National Bank, which would be worth 12.5 million schilling. What is the right of the owner to do so? But because the owner is the same as the party that is favored, one is silent. With what authority does Bank Austria buy Oesterreichische-Nationalbank shares not at the nominal value of 6.5 million, but by 100 million schilling, so that the party is financed? And you're silent! This is the rule of the secretaries! That is the absence of a minimum moral standard in Austrian politics, where red and black still have the saying without control! Ladies and gentlemen! That's the problem! For the government parties still regard this state as their personal property. They're pretending to belong to them all. With what authority can they act in this way? How should a normal, qualified young person in Austria have an opportunity to actually get a leadership position in one of the institutions covered by the rule of the secretaries? He can still be so good, he will never have a chance, because certain posts just won't be signed out! You go beyond that, you occupy these posts with trustees from your own party! That's terrible! [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: How in the East Block!]] In the eastern block the conditions are already better than in Austria! We are really the westernmost country of the Eastern Bloc, not the easternmost country of the West! Unfortunately, that is the case! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The Austrian People's Party is so silent only because it's everywhere! Mr. Schüssel announced on 1 January. May: Privatization, objectivity. But what is the result? – It had to be the position of a fifth director at the ÖBB! The black breath must become Director-General at the control bank! The Ditz Secretary Koren must be provided: Although he has no banking practice at all, he is catapulted into a bank! Mr Ditz must be provided with the mail: Once he has cleared up the billions of the post as Minister of Finance, he is now obtaining a three million contract to continue to wriggle the managed company. Ladies and gentlemen! I could give examples of examples which make it clear that this is not the case! The possibility of making the Republic a self-service shop must finally be stopped! We must contribute to this, even here in Parliament! That is why I call on Members - including the government parties - to make clear political and legal decisions in order to make these non-inhibitive self-services of the red and black officials once and for all belong to the past! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Only the request – to name just one example – that Mr. Eder and Mr. Eder have made to buy the federal shares in the railway settlement company, a non-profit housing cooperative, shows how it works here. At a nominal value of 180 million schilling, 18 to 20 billion schilling of existing assets and yet coming assets are increased in the truest sense of the word by the outflow gains made! It's brutal what's happening here! We will deal very closely with this question. Because, as it seems to me, there is a kind of end-time mood in this coalition government. Everyone's still taking care of a post and saying: Afterwards we do objectively! If we've occupied everything, we're supposed to be objective. But now we still have to focus on it. That is why I say to you: What is still happening in the Austrian National Bank is, in fact, a scandal. Because in 1992, when we first criticised the abuses, it said: Now we're going to make a deal! Now I ask you: Where's the order? There are still situations that cannot be justified against the population at all. The pension right for those who entered service before 1993 is: 85 per cent of the final reference. The overtime fee is also included in the calculation basis. Where else is there something like that? All allowances received by someone are included in the calculation basis. It may happen that people receive more than 100 percent of the active relationship as pensions! That means: Some are much more wealthy in the pension than in the time they work because they are so favored by the system. Or: People in normal working life must work flexibly and for longer periods. The control and operating doctor of the Oesterreichische Nationalbank grants an extra three weeks of "land leave" to anyone who wants it, as it is so beautiful. Ten weeks of vacation is thus in this "strung" sphere of the Oesterreichische Nationalbank! And the operating doctor likes to approve this, because for 20 hours he will cash over 2 million schilling in income! That's wonderful. One hand washes the other! Or: The "normal" workers and employees are reduced. In the National Bank there are 800 million schilling anniversary money, ladies and gentlemen! 800 million schilling anniversary money and another 17.5 months' pay as a settlement! A normal worker must work for 25 years to reach twelve months. There, everyone, whether long or short, receives 17.5 monthly payments as payments. No early pensions, it says: Now they register the early pensions in the National Bank. ==References== July goes to the early boarding house again a number of employees: 52 to 54 years old, pumping healthy. One is businessman in South Africa in the meantime. He's going to be wonderful, but he's got to go to the early board! And pensions amount to 90 000, 100 000 to 120 000 S! Let me give you a few other examples: People today have to accept higher rental costs because life is getting more expensive. For employees of the National Bank there are apartments around 20 S per square meter. That's all right! There are the most beautiful apartments for millionaires at a square meter price of 20 S! Or: Madam President Schaumayer has said that the pensions and salaries of the executives have been reduced. – Not at all! I'll show you this by means of a displayboard: The maximum pension for ASVG insured persons is 28 540 S, whereas a Director General of the Austrian National Bank receives 333 500 S. He gets 13 700 S every day, while the ASVG insured receives a maximum of 1 000 S per day. An ASVG insurer receives a maximum of 45 S as a pensioner per hour, and a Director General of the Austrian National Bank receives 571 S pension per hour. And if he goes now, the Director-General, Comrade of the SPÖ, he still receives 8.3 million schilling as a finish. 8.3 million schilling, that's not so bad, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's incredible! scandalous!]] And there are a lot more: There are, for example, the Deputy Director-General: He gets 7.2 million schillings in treatment and a pension of 280 000 s, fifteen times of course, because it has to be expected! Dr. Klaus Mündl, Director-General: 6 million Schilling, 245 000 S pension claim; Dr. Thomas Lachs, also a "Genosian Director": 6 million schilling, 245,000 S pension claim, and so on: In this "price situation" there are two more. Now you'll understand why we have the freedom to say: There must be made order, Federal Chancellor! It is not enough to announce a few points and then to continue again as before. I am already very pleased that at least in one point the liberals are conquering, in a point to which Professor Novotny has taught us for years that we are wrong. I have always said that it's actually a duck when a national bank exists in a democracy that for 1 300 pensioners has around 24 billion schilling – 24 billion schilling! – pension provisions. This amount should actually be available to the Federation for activities. We liberals have said: Let us take part of these reserves, which are not necessary when contributions are paid, and let us make them flow into activities of pension financing and wage tax reduction for those workers who are in the lower and medium incomes and who are suffering from working time flexibility today. In my opinion, that would be a very useful policy! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] What did Professor Novotny say? . He said many years ago when I first made this proposal that this was a dangerous cause. A resolution of the National Bank's reserves would mean a weakening of the central bank and thus of the Austrian schilling and would be strongly opposed. This would be immature and dangerous to economic policy. – What does the National Bank say today? What does the government say today? – The pension provisions of the Austrian National Bank are to be tapped. [[Call to the liberals: Here look! Aha!]] All of a sudden, ladies and gentlemen! I congratulate the Group of the European Free Alliance on this success. This is really an impeccable, positive development. [[Congratulations and bravo reputation with the liberals.]] Federal Chancellor! I think these things are changing in Austria because we liberals are ultimately behind them. – I say to you: Just like you can't make laws! Tomorrow, for example, we will decide on the new privileges rules for policy, which also set an income limit for the national bank presidents. But it is already in the third paragraph – and I have to read this to you, Federal Chancellor – that for the first time appointed officials of the Oesterreichische Nationalbank in a pension scheme, the basics of the federal tax legislation apply. – So: The new regulation applies to officials who are appointed for the first time. But for the old ones whose contracts may now be extended, we have already made sure that no one loses a schilling of his 6 or 7 million shillings of pensions and salaries. That's exactly the style we don't want! I appeal to you, Federal Chancellor: Restriction: You're not on this five-point program! If you really want to overcome this red-black system at last...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e9473	Please pay attention to the speaking time!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e9494	If you really want to overcome this system, then more will be needed than the adoption of five commandments! Then you can't go further than before, but then you will have to realize with us these fundamental reform steps, as we Liberals have pointed out in our proposal today!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e9524	In order to deliver an opinion, the Federal Chancellor has notified himself. The speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e9546	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Dr. Haider! I will resist the temptation to go to your argumentation level and now deal with the liberals' post-sharing pact in Carinthia in 1994! I will also resist the temptation to address your systematic attempts to destabilize our country by proposing the destruction of institutions in our country, starting from the Second Republic to the social partners, from the Chamber of Labour and the Federal Chamber of Commerce to the overparty ÖGB, and now "finally" proposing the destruction of the independent National Bank. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] This is not a serious policy, and we are not at our disposal, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Please try to reach an objective level together! – Allow It is therefore necessary, I believe, to begin with a statement which I think is necessary: It is their exclusive responsibility to exercise ownership rights wherever the influence of the public hand, the federal government, the countries and the local authorities is determined. And the ownership rights are exercised by ordering responsible bodies, such as supervisory councils or managers. Dear Dr. Haider! Something was interesting: For example, they did not address an area for which I was directly responsible as Minister of State, because I proved that in this large area of the ÖIAG I did not only make the necessary restructurings and adjustments of the ownership forms, but also created a clear, transparent, objective award of leadership functions and performance-oriented, contemporary contracts. And I will ensure that this happens in all other sectors, ladies and gentlemen, too. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Why don't you do this at Scholten?]] I would like to ask you a question: What part does the Republic of Austria have in the Austrian Control Bank? What is the share of the Republic of Austria in the OeKB? Please answer this question. – Zero percent! [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Do you know what you're demanding? – That I, as Federal Chancellor, have now changed the unanimous appointment of a member of the Board of Directors of Owners and Supervisory Boards decided by the Raiffeisen Organization, the First Austrian and finally Bank Austria? You're asking me for a political intervention! [[Abg. Dr. Haider: So what? You've made yourself strong for schools!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Please, who are you? Me or me? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Please note, therefore, that you have to decide what you really want! And when it comes to what you really want, ladies and gentlemen, I can tell you: I am very glad that you like my five-point programme, which is clearly forward-looking, so that you have incorporated essential points into your request. This is a good sign of the desire to achieve a clear, transparent, controllable allocation and selection of management functions for all sectors in which the public sector has influence at the level of the federal, state and local authorities. And I am very glad that the two coalition parties have agreed on a motion for a resolution which will ensure the clear, transparent and controllable allocation of leadership functions at federal, regional and local level, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This programme first provides for the continuous public tendering of management and board functions for all audited companies, second for the development of modern performance-oriented standard contracts, such as those in the field of ÖIAG. Thirdly, market-friendly references should be established by the key institutions on the basis of mandatory sectoral comparisons. And if the key bodies, which are also to be announced, are the members of the Supervisory Board's Bureau, the Supervisory Board or at GmbH's, then this is also to be made clear. There's nothing to hide, and we don't want to hide anything. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, all the references of the managing directors and the members of the board of directors must be defined and published. This five-point programme clearly and transparently regulates the award of leadership functions in the field of public hands, and so we will be able to get God's head free again and have power to carry out the necessary reforms for our country and do not always have to deal with old G's layers. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On the concrete demands of your application: Ladies and gentlemen! Is it really clear to you what it means when, in a situation that exists on the money markets today, an independent national bank is very important to maintain the stability of a currency, it calls for the devastation of the Austrian National Bank? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Aumayr.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian National Bank is an independent national bank. And through the Austrian National Bank, over the last decades, we have had a tangible, stable currency, a resuscisable currency that gives us the opportunity... [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You're gonna get rid of the schilling!]] [[Abg. Aumayr: You'll get rid of the schilling!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] I do not remember, Mr Dr. Haider, that I would have interrupted you while you spoke. I therefore ask for fairness and courtesy. I didn't make any calls and ask you to listen to me too! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian National Bank...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e9690	The President of the Federal Chancellor is speaking and after him a number of other speakers. I would recommend that every speaker – without prejudice to interlocutory calls, which are of course legitimate – should not be prevented from speaking as such – no matter which group he belongs to, and regardless of his position on the ministerial bank. Please, Mr. Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e9730	I would think that if we agree on a common song and sing it together, we will be able to understand. But no one has a chance to understand, ladies and gentlemen, anything. I would therefore like to...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e9754	I'm interrupting the session for a minute.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e9779	I'll start the interrupted session again. Mr Bundeskanzler, I ask you to continue.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e9803	Ladies and gentlemen! I don't understand that excitement in itself. I did not address the FPÖ's Carinthian postal package anyway. I haven't talked about all these things anyway. That is why I want to get back to the matter. Ladies and gentlemen! I would ask you to consider what your wish is, in fact, to make your request for the destruction of the Oesterreichische National Bank, a bank which has proved itself very well and made sure that we have a stable currency and that this stable currency has achieved an economic development that can be seen in Europe over the last few decades. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Faith You're telling me: This attack on the independent national bank would lead to a high destabilization in the current phase of the money markets and endanger the more than 4,000 billion schilling of savings from Austrians! We are not available for this, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say the following: The fact that I am speaking and replying to you here and today is therefore, in my view, a welcome because you had to submit a request concerning a federal law to the Federal Minister responsible for it – in this case to the Federal Minister for Finance. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Among other things, this is in the law! It's not an encounter!]] This is clear and clear from § 3 para. 2 of the Federal Ministry Act. The affairs of the Oesterreichische Nationalbank are now part of the scope of the Federal Minister for Finance, and only this is the subject of your request. I would therefore ask the Federal Minister for Finance to be present at the discussions on this request. He explained his willingness to do so. – I thank you for your attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e9867	The Minister for Finance has spoken. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e9888	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, questions about the Austrian National Bank and any legal changes – which actually stand in the house – are clearly matters of the Federal Minister for Finance. I would like to return the discussion to the "Teptic of Reality" here a few points from my point of view. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Not like the chancellor!]] The Austrian National Bank will become part of the European System of Central Banks at the beginning of the third stage of monetary union. For this reason, legal adjustments are required in the National Bank Act. That's not a question at all. Therefore, in autumn – and this may happen by chance at the date mentioned by the applicants here – I will submit to the House a revision of the National Bank Act, which refers to those articles of the EU Treaty, which are relevant to them. These are Articles 105, 105a, 106, 107, 108a and 108a of the Union Treaty. I would like to save myself from reading to you the exact wording of this article because I assume that these articles are known to the Members of this House. However, I would like to point out the essential points of these legal adjustments. The legal adjustment requirements relate in particular to the provisions on the independent position of the Oesterreichische Nationalbank. The adaptation to European law will have to enter into force at the time of the establishment of the European System of Central Banks (ESCB), which is expected to take place in spring 1998. Furthermore, those provisions that relate to the full integration of the Oesterreichische National Bank into the ESCB are affected and only at the beginning of the third stage – i.e. the 1st stage. January 1999 – it must have entered into force. In particular, these will be the following points, which are also covered by the aforementioned bill: Firstly, it is about the creation of the functions of the Governor and the Vice-Governor, thus ensuring the participation of the European Central Bank Council. Secondly, it is necessary to clarify that the Governor or his alternate is neither bound by decisions of the Executive Board nor by decisions of the General Council or of the Supervisory Board nor subject to any other direction in the performance of all ECB functions. I think that this is an essential provision. Thirdly, it is about extending the incompatibility provisions for the General Council or Supervisory Board, depending on the legal structure and the management board. Fourthly, the prohibition on the award of loans by the Austrian National Bank to public bodies pursuant to Article 104 of the Union Treaty is concerned. That too is an essential provision. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would not like to look at the 19-page justification of your request. This concerns matters which have already been dealt with several times, not only in this House but also in the public. Rather, I would like to deal specifically with the re-construction of the National Bank referred to in your request, which is clearly designed by you to deal with the "National Bank-New". In this context, for example, I cannot follow the criticism that, because of the transfer of bank supervision and discretionary tasks to the Austrian National Bank, its ownership structure is no longer timely. The ownership structure is of no importance in the banking supervision and best practices of the Oesterreichische Nationalbank because the Oesterreichische Nationalbank operates as a loan company under the law. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You can see that at the Rieger bank!]] The broad representation of the economy and the representation of workers in the ownership of the Oesterreichische Nationalbank ensures the independence of the central bank necessary for this task. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I believe that the specific form of the Austrian social partnership and the involvement of the economic and employment side in the Austrian National Bank have helped to create the climate and the stability in which the wage policy, sometimes very significant, which is characterised by its peaceful presentation of conflicts between workers and employers has grown. I do not want to turn away from this culture of conflict. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to point out that the resolution of the Austrian National Bank and the subsequent re-establishment at a time like this – we are particularly important pan-European decisions a year ago, especially in the field of monetary market policy – would be a completely false signal to European and international financial markets. This could be very serious for the Austrian economy and its stability. I think it is also one of the tasks of the Minister of Finance and the Government, not to question the stability of our currency and the calmness of international financial markets through an Austrian experiment and adventure. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: What does this have to do with post chess?]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! If you propose the assignment of a "decentralized administrative body" to the tasks of the Oesterreichische National Bank, I do not know exactly what the well-known legal form should be. Perhaps you mean a legal person with public rights similar to that of the new Federal Securities Supervisory Board. You have to make this more concrete. For that construction is contrary to the right of guidance, so that there are constitutional concerns against the independence of such an institution. "Decentralized administrative bodies" without binding instructions but I cannot imagine myself in our legal building, honestly. However, as you know, I have already mentioned the relevant provisions, the EU Treaty requires the independence of the central bank. For this reason, the tasks of the central bank in Austria, but also in other European countries, are carried out by a stock company. I can't see any other advantages that your construction would have against a stock company. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The constitutional security of the central bank of the Republic in the form of the current OeNB or the "decentralized administrative body" you require – whatever you may understand – is therefore not necessary because this has already been done through the EU Treaty, i.e. at a legally higher level. In any event, this applies if the requirement relates to the independence of public bodies. The Austrian legislator cannot set up an independence with the ECB. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to state once again that the call for the public procurement of all the functions of the members of the OeNB Executive Board has already been settled and will, of course, continue to be fulfilled in the future, because we need the best to be able to operate in such important functions of a national bank. Other functional agents are under their instructions, which results in fact from the construction – whether stock company or not – and thus do not have their own "personnel responsibility", as you call it in your application. Functions connected with personnel responsibility must be publicly advertised. Therefore, with regard to the job registration, your claim is already fulfilled both now and in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to point out that the Austrian National Bank is involved in a draft law to be dealt with in the National Council's plenary this week, namely the reference pyramid. Much further, the legislator should not go to a stock company. If these income pyramids in the future cause changes in the relations of directors, then this – in the nature of the matter – has a corresponding impact on the second and third levels. That too understands itself, as I mean. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! As has already been said, I will submit a draft law to this House in the coming autumn. That is why I believe that your request is absolutely essential. - Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e9966	Mr Dr. Novotny came to speak. Speech time: 10 minutes, as well as for all the following speakers, if they do not use shorter speaking times voluntarily. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e9988	Mr President. High house! We have recently had a similar debate in this House. Mr Haider! I have to say, I think it's just bad that you're here...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e10003	Mr Novotny, please do not start with such a division!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e10024	Sorry! I'll take it back. I think it is worrying that you are misusing the tragic suicide of a person here for political change. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That's what he wanted!]] He certainly didn't want to! What we heard today from Haider he certainly did not want to do, and no one in this country can want that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: But he wanted that clearly! That's very unpleasant for you.]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Now, if I'm on the topic of note bank... [[Further calls to the liberals.]] I thought you'd like to discuss the central bank as well. Discussing means hearing – or just yelling? - You have to think about that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: They're throwing us, and we can't defend ourselves!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] If you are willing to listen, I can continue by saying that Mr Haider has an old, but unfortunately somewhat unhappy, "love" to the Austrian National Bank. First he wanted to devalue the schilling, then he wanted to shroud the currency reserves. Mr Haider! As you have now spoken of the resolution of the reserves, I ask you to take note of one thing: There is a significant difference between the resolution of reserves and the recalculation of reserves. Maybe these simple business things are something new to you. But at least this will be the result of this debate. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Principal Teacher!]] What we experience today is the following: Today, Haider is going all the way. Now he wants to "liquid" the National Bank at all – this word is in this request – and then to re-establish it. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You want to demonstrate all the abuses!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! That would be the liquidation of the National Bank in one of the most sensitive monetary policy situations we have had in recent decades! To this end, I must say: If this were not so inseparable, it would be unresponsible. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! What you're saying might lead you to say: All this is not to be taken seriously. But I mean, not because of Haider, but despite Haider, despite your polemics, you should deal with some of the points of this request in a serious way. There are points in it that are relevant; other points are irrelevant or obsolete; and there are some approaches that would be extremely dangerous for Austria. Which are the relevant points? The Federal Minister has just implemented that we will amend the National Bank Act in connection with monetary union. Of course, this will not happen in the direction of liquidation as you wish, but a number of structural issues will be discussed. These relate, for example, to the management bodies or – this is a point I would like to stress here – to the relationship with Parliament. At present, Parliament has a voluntary relationship with the National Bank in the way that there are talks between the Financial Committee and the central bank. These are very constructive discussions, and also the colleagues from FPÖ participate constructively. But I think we could keep going. The Statute of the European Central Bank provides that there should be an annual report from the European Central Bank to Parliament and that there is a possibility to carry out hearings. In my opinion, it would be useful to also adopt these rules for a future Austrian National Bank Act. Today I presented this proposal to the National Bank of Austria, which was just completed. I believe that there is a broad and positive response to this. For mutual information also opens up the possibility of mutual understanding. I now have the optimism of a reconnaissance, saying: Knowledge helps the reasonable argumenting further. This optimism also covers the colleagues from the FPÖ. Ladies and gentlemen! The second point concerns areas which are not relevant but which are obsolete. These include the wage and pension examples. I would like to say very clearly: There is a large number of banks in the credit industry, also in the National Bank... [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: This only applies to the new arrivals!]] Wait a minute! There are a large number of highly qualified persons there, who can of course be paid accordingly. But I would like to say clearly: We Socialists are not willing to issue any blank checks for all the salary and pension schemes that exist in this area. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I would also like to say very clearly: We are not prepared to defend misdevelopments, which have occurred in part in this area, but we are beginning to change them. Federal Chancellor Klima has precisely led the way here. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. stupid.]] It is crucial that these developments have now been corrected. The Austrian National Bank launched a massive structural reform in 1993, and all that has been presented in this House today, including the already somewhat "overriding" Taferls, are old cases, things that can no longer be done in this form today. [[Abg. Young: Where you have the responsibility!]] Especially the lawyers among you know that there are, of course, difficulties in intervening in existing contracts. However, I also believe that we should look at even more stringently how far this may be possible. However, I can assure you that tomorrow we will decide on the involvement of the central bank in the pyramid system. We expect the Austrian National Bank to find a clear structure, and I believe that this expectation will be fulfilled. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! On the third point of the request, which entails dangerous approaches for Austria. Two aspects have already been briefly addressed: political discrimination and political destabilisation. Political discrimination is evident in a flat-rate depreciation of all those who have ever worked as secretaries. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: No polemics from the speaker's desk!]] Your application contains a list of names, such as that of Dr. Reiter, who was chief of cabinets 21 years ago – just a moment, Mr. Cot, you're coming up with it! – and worked positively, up to Lacina and so on. [[Interlocutory calls to the liberals]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: You only have 10 minutes of speech after the Rules of Procedure!]] That means there must be no flat-rate conviction here. I can also speak objectively about this problem, since I was never a secretary. Mr Haider was, after all, the State Party Secretary – he has also become something – and he may have had other experiences. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Haider.]] I do not know if it is these experiences that have brought him into such strange formulations – such as, "that the powerful is a clumsy who appoints a clumsy to the secretary" – in this request. I must say that this is a language that I have never found in a request in this Parliament. This is a flat-rate diffamation that is aimed at itself. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Haider.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I will also quote something that is perhaps not quite uninteresting and that concerns the esteemed colleagues from Carinthia – a country where we can see the practice of FPÖ. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] On the only opportunity of the FPÖ to show how it intends to transform the government in practice, a blue-black pact was concluded. This pact states that FPÖ will also be given the presidency of the Carinthian Economic Promotion – I did not find anything from the call for tender – and also the chairman of the newly-founded Land Holding – i.e. I did not find anything there from the call for tender – offices such as that of the President of the National School Council, the ORF Curatorium Chairman, the intentionant of the national studio Carinthia and a whole series of other offices and functions that have not yet been mentioned. – That’s the reality! Everything else is just beautiful words. We Socialists have dealt with the coalition partner in agreement. Federal Chancellor Klima has presented a catalogue of five points on which we can establish a clean, clear, orderly structure also for incomes in Austria's economy and in the Austrian administration.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e10251	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Schreiner. His voluntary speaking time is 9 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e10272	Mr President. Federal Minister for Finance! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Novotny! Every time you go to the speaker's desk and debate the National Bank, you say that the liberals are putting schilling at risk. But you yourself are on it and on it, with 1. 1. 1999 to abolish the schilling and to implant the euro in its place! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Right!]] Mr Novotny! As a professor of economics, what you have said about the question of reserves cannot really mean seriously. Reserves will be recalculated! – No, Professor Novotny! You admit that you said the untruth here in 1992 when you made this accusation to us. These reserves are now reduced by 12 billion schilling and fed to the Federal budget. We never asked anything else in this house. It is necessary to distinguish between deposits and deposits. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Professor Novotny! Thank God I wasn't a student with you. Thank God! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the liberals.]] There are, in fact, several types of reserves, including pension reserves, to which we have referred. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: What about them?]] There are also other reserves, namely currency reserves, which you bring into the discussion each time, while we have meant the pension reserves that we no longer need. These reserves are now, according to the press service of the 14th century. On the basis of the decision of the Coalition Parties, it is half-consumed by being sent to the Federal Budget. Professor Novotny! At least be honest and admit that you said the untruth here in 1992! [[Abg. Böhacker: He was wrong!]] You've been wrong – at least say that! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But don't say every time we liberals would put the schilling and the sheet of notes at risk and so on. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: You didn't understand!]] Professor! You didn't understand me. I have understood this very carefully, and the public certainly understands it. I would also like to refer to the accusation put forward here that we have the intention of crushing the National Bank. – No, we intend to re-establish the Oesterreichische Nationalbank. Because we think it is irresponsible if the Austrian central bank continues to work on a ownership structure, as it currently has, in the next few years. In addition to the Republic, which holds 50 percent of the shares, there are additional illustrative names on the list of owners: the Raiffeisen Central Bank, the Trade Union Confederation, the PSK holds the "consumer" shares, the Federal Chamber – everything beautiful in the red and black knit pattern. A bank Austria subsidiary holds shares of the Socialist Party of Austria, which have been faithfully "interparked". This is unique in Europe that the shareholders of a central bank are political groups! Further shares are held: the Federal State Insurance, the Industrial Association, the Pension Fund of the Landeswirtschaftskammern – I have never heard of it in Lower Austria, but the Lower Austrian Landeswirtschaftskammer also holds shares in the Notenbank via its Pensions Fund – the First Lower Austria Fire Damage Insurance – like many Lower Austrians are involved at all –, the Wiener Städtisch, the – already again Lower Austria – Raiffeisenbank Niederösterreich, the Kathrein Bank and so on, a total nominal value of 75 million Schilling. Professor Novotny! They will also have to explain to the public the reprocessing of the so-called 12.5 percent owned by SPÖ. They were "parked" at a so-called SPÖ-near institution, which has now been sold by 100 million to an unknown daughter of Bank Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! I've been looking closer at this. The note bank was founded in 1955. This Founding Act is documented in the company's book of the Landesgericht Wien. All shareholders are listed here. The SPÖ therefore took 12.5 million from its cash register – otherwise it would not have happened because it was a cash formation – and transferred it to the bank to be founded. All in all, the SPÖ not only has the 100 million already mentioned, but, since it has already been eliminated twice – once at the BAWAG and a small part at the PSK – a total of around 200 million have been added. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: This is an interest rate!]] Mr Notwotny! You could tell your students that it would be interesting: 12.5 million in 1955 fell with a 4 percent interest rate to the present day around 65 million – the SPÖ has now collected a total of 200 million! Mr Finanzminister! This would actually be a process which the financial authority would have to review. There is no confirmation in the company's book that these 12.5 million have even flown. I therefore almost assume that a so-called internal conversion of the already existing central bank with the re-establishment into a stock company took place in order to give SPÖ 12.5 million nominals to share capital. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: That they paid nothing!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's how it works!]] Federal Minister for Finance! If this is done by a normal shareholder or GmbH owner, it is a hidden distribution of profits, and the person concerned would have a criminal proceedings at the neck and so on. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] This has in itself been the foundation of a stock company for me, namely in the area where the federal government does not own 50 percent. I believe that the federal government has paid for this, but whether everyone else has actually paid cash is not verifiable from the register act – we have looked three times. This is really a problem now, because when these shares are sold – of course, because they were in possession for a year and a day longer, they can be used tax-free, and the SPÖ can manage the 200 million schilling without problems: However, the SPÖ can only luxuriate this if it was the material owner before. It must have really paid the shares for the so-called first original foundation. Federal Minister! That would be a case you really would have to examine. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Or the prosecutor's office!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Don't have to, but have to!]] Because it is not likely that the financial office is embarrassingly looking at the advantages of the individual shareholders in the examination of companies, GmbHs and stock companies, even so small, but in this case it is not. If it is only a service car or any other hidden settlement account, it is usually checked to see if it is a hidden profit distribution. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's where we have to make a financial fine against the SPÖ!]] Federal Minister for Finance! I would ask you to look at this, because it would be the scandal of this Republic if a political party had fallen in 200 million without spending a shilling on it at that time, in 1955! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister for Finance! One last note to leave the sheet. I say to you, a problem with the structure and debate on the Austrian banks is obvious: We must finally trust ourselves to make Mr and Mrs Österreicher private shareholders of Austrian banks. Why don't you privatize everything that's possible? Why don't you trust Mr. and Mrs. Österreicher to be private shareholders? Now, while parking the Bank Austria shares, it is already restricted and said: if the stock exchange allows it. – Do you have the courage to privatize! Look For example, in the Federal Republic of Germany: The Telekom share is one of the most sought-after papers. The market is open to consumption. We have a lot of savings in Austria in itself, but we have a terrifyingly low real interest rate of these savings. As the Federal Minister for Finance, you should be interested in the fact that many, many small shareholders are ruling the banks in Austria. This would benefit the political culture, the culture within the banks and also the culture of the managers there. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Then, at last, there would be a payment for performance, because the managers would have to be responsible to the shareholders who do not hang on the bandage of a political party, but who act on the basis of a fundamental, economic consideration. Quit the economic charlatanerie in the banking sector!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e10486	The next speaker is Mr Dkfm. Mühlbachler. Speech time: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e10515	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Haigermoser: Many people say he's a miniature!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: He's administrative!]] I would like to say a few words about today's urgent question put by the FPÖ. [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is a request, my colleague.]] Mr Mag, of course, I would like to ask you, Mr Mag. Stadler! First of all, I would like to say the following: It is given the impression that the 24 billion Schilling pension reserves lie somewhere in the basement, and you actually only need to distribute them to taxpayers. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Where are they?]] Who's naïve! If you, with your lamento of our monetary policy, actually do damage our hard currency policy, this sometimes weighs much more than you can actually explain. [[Abg. Haigermoser: The speech is wrong! That doesn't mean anything!]] [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: I haven't seen you so helpless for a long time!]] Please note, for example, that in 1995 there were 1 552 billion schillings in savings. [[Abg. Haigermoser: So what? What does that mean?]] For example, if the inflation rate in our state were to rise by 2 per cent as a result of careless policies, Mr Böhacker, this would have an impact on the small savers, who seem to be your interest and who are under your protection, of over 30 billion schilling. [[Abg. Böhacker: Ah that! 2 percent just!]] So don't talk about 24 billion if the savers alone are 30 billion schilling or more! I do not want to talk about the depreciation of the income of the self-employed or the income of the self-employed. [[Abg. Böhacker: Cold Progression!]] I don't think you know what you're talking about. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] I notice this in particular when you speak of the control bank. Dear friends! The Control Bank is for you an institution that would actually be out of place. May I tell you the following: I am concerned about the many small businesses that are trying to deal with good products on the international markets. A small mill-fourtler woodworking operation is finally able to export 150 prefabricated houses to the Middle East. [[Abg. Böhacker: Are you involved?]] Question: Which bank in Austria would actually grant him an operating loan on the order? [[Abg. Böhacker: This is a question of creditworthiness!]] – I am not aware because the risk of realising export revenues is particularly high in the Middle East. That is to say, the businessman would actually have to withdraw from this export order immediately, because he would not be able to realize the operating appropriations at all. This would, in turn, have an impact on the employment situation and on the profitability of these small businesses, which we must be grateful for. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: If you do what?]] - If we don't give them export guarantees. [[Call the liberals: for that we do not need the control bank!]] [[Further lively calls to the liberals.]] Who else than the control bank should give the export guarantee? Tell me if any home bank would be able to issue this export guarantee on its own. [[Abg. Böhacker: Why not?]] They're always just talking about one part of the medal. Tell me who would actually take over these export guarantees. The Freedom Party, maybe? [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Mr. Scholten!]] I'd like to tell you something else: If you are already concerned with introducing a little transparency into human resources policy, then it would be necessary to demonstrate this transparency in human resources policy once in a row. Not even in the smallest party organisations of the "F" it is possible to introduce this transparency. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Let me give you a few examples. – Did I hear the word "tax"? - No, Steyr. There are always conflicts between the party base and the head of the party in Upper Austria. [[Abg. Böhacker: Where? - At the ÖVP?]] No, with the liberals, for example in Steyr. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals]] The Freemans of Steyr have nominated a wishful candidate, Mr Wolfgang Fahrenberger. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Farnleitner is the name of the man!]] However, it did not come to the train, but there was an individual decision by the liberal party observer of Upper Austria, and this individual decision was taken in favour of Mrs Elfriede Madl. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You're making fun of your argument!]] One reads that the only criterion would have been that she owns a weekend house in Steyr. [[Abg. Aumayr: That was a board decision!]] Of course, I could continue this. Please save me from repeating the embarrassments that can be read in the newspaper. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If you are already talking about the fact that there are references in the National Bank that need to be reformed urgently, I say: Yes, that's right! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: No wonder you lose!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] The Austrian People's Party has mainly worked on this reference pyramid. In your series, work on what has actually been in your business for a long time! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You won't be long!]] Dear friends! It is interesting, for example, what a former FP member of the government gives of himself, namely, on the 12th century. ==References== [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Don't you create yourself in front of the listeners?]] No, I'm not enjoying it. It must finally be said that the so-called clean party itself is in the swamp. That must be mentioned. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Yes!]] The FP delegate will, although he has suffered a heart attack, be forced by the liberals to give up his pension. He wouldn't do it because he'd be unblemished. He says, however, that it is interesting for him that he was forced by the head of the party to do the head of the party himself, but does not make any institutions to abandon the privileges that you always demand from the liberals. [[Abg. Haigermoser: A swimming tire for Mr. Mühlbachler!]] Neither Mr Achatz nor anyone else Man of the Upper Austrian head of the party abandons a pension or a pension that exceeds 60,000 s. Please give a good example! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] They always talk about the beams in the eyes of the others and do not see for themselves what is happening in your ranks. They've gotten blind. [[Abg. Haigermoser: He also ate pig bread and knuckle!]] This should be recognized by the Austrian population once. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The concern may be a good one, but not the presentation of the "F".
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e10968	The next speaker is Mr Van der Bellen. His speaking time is 10 minutes. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e10997	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I do not know the details of matters in Styria or in other federal states. I have noticed a point - if it is already called for - in the speech of Mr Mühlbachler negatively, namely this type of "0/1" argumentation. Mr Mühlbachler! Of course, we need to assume liability in the export industry, for example. But that does not mean that everything in the control bank should remain the same and can do what it is. [[Abg. May. Mühlbachler: I didn't say that!]] Well, that's how it got over. Those who have failed may have noticed that I went to the Members of Parliament's Directorate and changed my speech so to speak. I first went with the rhetoric the way my colleague Novotny probably did. If a request or a report begins with the words "tragic suicide" and so on, then all the hairs are set up with me. I admit that. I can't do anything with this rhetoric. However, if one then abstracts from it and partially reads it – which has little to do with the later request in part or at least does not have anything to do immediately intelligible – so take the request as such, then, I think, he is quite acceptable under the line. Finally, it is not an initiative proposal but a wish for the Federal Government to present something that the Federal Government will anyway present. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Of course!]] In so doing, it is well suited to this more or less brilliant policy of the liberals to anticipate what is going to happen anyway and to make a request on this issue disappear. Then, of course, in one form or another, some point of the liberals will be taken into account – and you already have a political success. That's easy to see in itself. I'm just wondering why we're so rude and don't make it more often ourselves.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e11051	And how do you answer this question, Mr. Colleague?
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e11072	That is what I have to think, Mr President. Very briefly: The essential part in the first part before the request seems to me to be point I, which is overwritten by the title "The controlors control themselves". If you look at the institutions and the institutions of the National Bank, I think it is not possible – as the lawyers would say – to think about it, it is indeed possible that conflicts of interest between the bank, the central bank and federal policy occur. These - I expressly say: potential - conflicts of interest will hopefully be taken into account in the forthcoming bank reform, which will and will have to come anyway in the course of the European Monetary Union. That this problem is happening right now and has not occurred two years ago, dear Ewald Novotny, I believe that we should not call it from the house – apologise if I say so – with the killing argument "Exploitation of the death of Mr Praschak". There seem to be phenomena that one does not take note of for decades, but suddenly break up. Example Control Bank: We all knew for decades how problematic the structure with the banks as owners, the banks as customers and the banks on the Supervisory Board is. How is the Board of Directors to act independently, if it is dependent, since its appointment is made by this Supervisory Board, which, in turn, is exclusively occupied by the banks? – We all took note of this for decades. But suddenly – through the sale of CA to Bank Austria, on the one hand, and the tragic death of a member of the Board of Management of the Control Bank – this problem arises. It will be possible to talk about it and to talk about it without immediately considering the argument that it is about exploitation. On one point I would like to say something because I have already given my own opinion on this, namely to what extent there is party financing in the sale of shares of the central bank to banks. In essence, they are banks and insurance companies. If you look at the last case, the sale of SPÖ shares to a subsidiary of Bank Austria, then I have to say: What else is there to be except for party financing? – It is obvious that a commercial interest of this Bank Austria subsidiary cannot exist. Thus, there are only two options: Either it is a direct and prompt thanks for the sale of CA to Bank Austria, or – this is the fifty-fifty party financing variant – the Bank Austria has an interest in being represented accordingly in the institutions of the central bank. If this argument applies, however,... [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] In the last case, it was "only" – under quotation marks – 100 million schilling. But that this is not feasible in commercial terms, no one has claimed, even Bank Austria. But if it is not commercially acceptable – that was my argument – even if one excludes this party financing story, then, I think, the motive can only be in what you describe under point I: the influence on the central bank. There is a need to talk about whether this is appropriate, appropriate and appropriate. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's what the Randa said!]] I think you're wrong when you're on point VI. "The capital shifts of the SPÖ at the taxpayer's expense". The taxpayer is not present throughout this game. The question is whether the share is acceptable, what Bank Austria has done. [[Abg. May. Stadler: By the property already!]] Okay, that might be another example I don't know. For the request itself. I do not agree with every single sentence, but if you insist on it, you will rarely even agree with any requests. I have my doubts as to whether the deadline is up to 15. September is correct and necessary. I also have my doubts about the first point in which you are talking about the fact that only the owner structure of the central bank is no longer modern. It is not just the ownership structure, it is the entire structure of all the institutions of the central bank to be reformed in the course of the accession to the monetary union. There is, of course, a fundamental difference between me and you. I can accept the request, although I expect and wish for monetary union. You have other motives. But this should not necessarily be debated here. In addition, the points you mention in the request, in part, correspond to the famous five points of the Federal Chancellor's Climate, which confirmed my presumption: A request is made which will be decided in this or other form sooner or later. I am absolutely unsure of what you mean by the pension reserve, which you want to dissolve and basically clear. They even say on page 11 of your paper that this pension reserve covers an obligation in the event that the note bank, the Oesterreichische Nationalbank, is dissolved by federal law. That's what you want! I am sure that this pension reserve will have to remain. Again: If this was an own-initiative proposal with § 1, § 2 and so on, I could not agree with it. But since it is a request to the Federal Government to present something in this direction, I think that it is quite unproblematic to accept this request. I am excited how the Liberals will claim the opposite. The whole thing has nothing to do with whether or not we want monetary union. That's a question sui generis. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e11132	Mrs Madl has made a statement on an actual correction. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I would like to begin by quoting the facts to be corrected and then formulating the facts. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e11157	Mr President. Mr Mühlbachler, in his contribution to the cabaret, claimed that no free-forwarder-rich politician waived his privileges and also adhered to the 60 000 S limit imposed on us by ourselves. That's wrong. I'm actually correcting: No liberal Upper Austrian politician deserves more than 60,000 S, all liberal officials have renounced their service cars, which cannot be claimed by SPÖ and ÖVP officials, and in addition, all liberal country officials have even renounced their retirement. [[Abg. Wormitzer: That's not true!]]
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e11193	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Hazelsteiner. Speech time: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e11215	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This urgent request has two facets for me: The one is the extensive explanation of this so-called moral image – as the Jörg likes to call it – of the Austrian banking landscape. In fact, there is something wrong with this, and I believe that not often enough can be discussed here as well as what improvements there are. I am sure we all agree on the fact that a official, a board of directors, does not like to have any owner. The ownerless property that he is responsible for is his favorite. He can act as if he was the owner himself, but has the consequences and responsibility of an owner – that is, the loss of the property – not to bear. He prefers to be a public owner if he cannot have this ideal image, because it is manipulable and wants to be re-elected. He is exposed to influences that, so to speak, meet the official in his role. In other words, he has easy game with the public owner. The third thing he wants, if he can't achieve that, is as broad a scatter as possible, so that the right of ownership is broken so strongly that it can't really have an effect on his functional life. Only then, at the end of the day, if it does not go any other way, will it accept an owner who actually asserts the rights of ownership and the interests of ownership. This state – and only this – will really bring us a decisive step forward. Therefore, if we in our Republic in this semi-governmental area, whether it be in the field of energy supply, whether it be in the banking sector, whether it be in various other interconnected economic areas and partly also central economic sectors – banks, banking and financial services are really a core in economic life – it does not create such a ownership structure, then these abuses, as they are correctly described here, will continue to exist. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! You have made great noises on the occasion of the CA merger, you will immediately change the Savings Act. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Why did you agree to the sale of CA to Bank Austria?]] Mr President, I should like to thank you very much for Where's your application? They've given up everything in the meantime. You know it's your own clientele, too. In the first anger you had forgotten, and now, Professor Lukesch, you are again very small with hat and do what you have done for decades: They use the system and take advantage of the advantages. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] Of course, secretaries can be anything. It is not forbidden to be secretary to a minister. You, Mr. Lukesch, probably don't have the talent to do that. But you too should become secretary to a minister. If you were a secretary, then of course you are entitled to any other career in that country. That is of course. But, ladies and gentlemen of the coalition parties, you will have to say that the automatic, so to speak, does not really look good in terms of legitimacy and replacement of other qualifications. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: In your ranks!]] That's too obvious. This list of occupations is too correct. It's not even complete, but it's quite manageable and it's very informative. Mein Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! That's what you have to represent here. They have done so and have also performed bear service to those concerned. Why? – Even if these men and women are top-ranking men and women, they will never be recognized as such because the selection principle is not objective. They will have to be kept in mind again and again that they have only been given this position because they were secretary of a minister or held a different political office. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] As long as this state of affairs, that we have private property here and there, which will then be maintained in their responsibilities correct or false but always with consequences, is maintained, as long as, of course, the five-point proposal of the Federal Chancellor is sufficient. But he's the minimum requirement. Why he's so proud of it, I don't understand. The Federal Chancellor goes here and says: Look what I'm doing! I'm going to write out. – I don't think he's gonna say that loud. He should be ashamed to say: I have been a minister for so long, and so far we have not yet written out in full. – Shame, I can only say! Shame! It is not political hygiene to avoid a call for proposals! Of course, we need a standardised service contract and third-party comparison arrangements. I would like to say to what the Chancellor of the Federal Republic has sold here as an "achievement" and an "improvement": That's the minimum standard! This would even be the standard in every banana republic and not only in Austria, I hope. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I shall now come to the National Bank for the second and actual part of this request. I believe that all the concerns represented here would be supported with the exception of a single one. I am to a certain extent sorry that I cannot accept this request. But I mean – apart from the points in which one plans to redecodify the right to serve; even if now an intervention is taking place through the pyramid, that has nothing to do with it –: We know we need a new National Bank Act. I too believe that the ownership structure is an Austriancum of first rank and no longer understandable at all. How this ownership structure came about in 1955 is difficult for me to understand. Who, what brain has this in mind and for what reason? Just so you can say: No, it's not the Republic! – That’s an eye wiper of first rank! This is where you have local authorities, interest groups and also pleitiers in them – and that for the Oesterreichische Nationalbank. Ladies and gentlemen! It is not entitled to be proud of it! We need a new comprehensive National Bank Act! Also the currency changeover to the 1st place. This is due in January 1999. In this new National Bank Act, I hope that these points and concerns will be sufficiently taken into account. I understand whether I think I understand at least what is behind this idea, disband it and start it new. It is, as it were, the sluggish blow with which one says: So, I'd be rid of all the old bands with one blow, and I'll get more room! [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Jörg, as opposed to you, I believe that the opposition is also a signal to the people who have to give to those concerned, which, however, is not tending to shake confidence. If one says right now at the stage of the currency changeover: Let us resolve the National Bank and re-establish it!, an essential additional uncertainty will be brought into the population. That is, I think, not to represent and not to answer. As Ultima ratio, I could imagine that, if a revision of the National Bank Act failed to achieve these legitimate concerns, we would be taking such a radical step after the currency changeover, so to speak, in calm waters. At the present time, I believe that this is not to be represented and not to be welcomed by a responsible opposition. That is why we will unfortunately not be able to give our approval to this request. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In any case, together with the liberals and the Greens, we will not let this subject fall asleep. But I'm just as opposed to saying: Discussing about the National Bank means risking schilling, the Republic wants to harm – or other excuses more. In addition, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, you have gone too deep in this career, including the pension reserve, including the contributions, including the structure. That smells huge, and you know that. You know the National Bank well enough. Experts of the National Bank, insiders of the National Bank, admit this, if they are honest and do not lie to themselves in the bag. This concerns not only the privileges, but also, of course, the efficiency and the understanding of roles. We know that the structure in the organs alone is not modern. Other countries laugh at us on this point and say: See how the Austrians do this!, just so that red and black have a good place next to each other and don't go on the nerves too much. I come to the conclusion, Mr President. Unfortunately, we cannot accept this motion today, but we will ensure that the meaning and content of this request remain up-to-date and are implemented.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e11321	Mrs Rossmann has reported on an actual correction. I would draw attention to the comments made earlier with regard to actual corrections. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e11345	Mr Mühlbachler claimed that neither the head of the party nor others in the FPÖ do not give up on retirement or settlement. I'm actually correcting: This claim is multiplely false! It is true, rather, that the head of the party in the person of the party chairman Dr. Haider has already three times renounced a settlement of about 1.5 million schilling, which is to be found in the Court of Auditors report. That seems to have gone away from you. In addition, I am correct in fact that there are no discharges in Styria in general and that Landtagsreiter Peinhaupt has been relinquishing his pension for two legislative periods. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schwarzenberger.]] He was talking about the "Parteispitze or others". In addition, I am in fact correct that three other new Members of the Liberal Party in the Styria also waive the pension.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e11391	The next speaker is Mr Gaugg. The speaking time is 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e11412	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The German Chancellor climate is a comprehensive, urgent request, in which all incidents regarding post-chachers and the friendly economy are penable. But he sings a song of praise here in his statements on the ach such instructive Oesterreichische Nationalbank. The question will be allowed: Does this partly praiseworthy work justify that this Austrian National Bank has transformed itself into a privilege temple seeking its own in Austria? The Federal Minister for Finance praises the important wage policy of the ÖGB in Austria and, probably for this reason, forgets that not only the SPÖ has received shares – whether legal or less legal – but also the Austrian Trade Union Confederation was involved in this scheme with 12.5 million schilling or 8.33 percent. It will also be necessary to consider whether the representatives of the Austrian Trade Union Confederation actually made a payment in 1955. They will urgently need the money, I suppose, because they will continue to run away from them in the future. University professor and MP Novotny said today that highly qualified persons would work in the Austrian National Bank. I'll have to ask you: Does not any qualified or less qualified people work in all other financial sectors in Austria? Is it not precisely them who are also suffering from a missing policy of the National Bank? They will be guided almost daily by the fact that they will have to tremble around their jobs, because there will be some 20,000 to 30 000 employees in this area. But not a single employee in the banking sector bears the responsibility for this, but primarily the Federal Government, which was very generous and said: Create a bank branch everywhere – similar to a sausage stand. Today, these branches are estimated by the high operating costs. Co-responsible are also the Executive Directors, who, in part, sit in the Austrian Control Bank or elsewhere, and – you listen and marvel – for the companies in which they sit, cash a 45 percent dividend from the Control Bank, which resorts to tax resources to cover debts. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Or does Mr. Universitätsprofessor Novotny think that they are highly qualified people because everyone – I think – can be assigned to red or black? – That alone seems to be the "high qualification" in the National Bank. I can only be surprised! Many recognize that this system can no longer be maintained. Professor Novotny, however, goes here and defends an East Block System. He also mentioned Carinthia. I can only tell him: In Carinthia we practice great tolerance. Until today, Mr. Metelko from the Federal Republic of Carinthia is chairman of the ORF Curatorium, and no one has said he has to give up this function just because he has suffered a devastating defeat! The Federal Chancellor mentioned five points, which should actually be a matter of course in a rule of law, in a democracy, not only when someone lives in a dramatic way from the Board of Directors of the Control Bank. These are the things we suffer from. Or: The national bank's errors and misbehaviour are also understandable in the issue of competition. There is, for example, the "Cartel of the Greats", which is referred to in the application, but I would rather speak of the "Club of the Citizens" we know in Austria's banking industry. As an example, I bring Rieger Bank AG, which has already been informed of 2. In December 1982, a concession for the foreign exchange and exchange office business was granted. This is still waiting for the exchange-trade authorisation. ==References====External links==* Official website In June 1990, he filed an official complaint. At least this is an amount of 450 million schilling. In the meantime alone, the costs for legal representatives amount to 20 million schilling. Now I want to know: Will these amounts be paid to those in charge in the Austrian National Bank, or will the taxpayers be asked to cash? They always speak of highly qualified secretaries and of ministers who need to be provided. They did not need to be afraid of a public invitation to tender and might have a chance there. But the most damaging thing about this entire Austrian banking landscape, which is a single closed society, is – I think there is no such thing all over the world – that bank directors order each other. One director will be elected Executive Director, and the next day he will sit as Supervisory Board in the other bank and appoint his colleagues who ordered him before. This system is really only available to us, and it belongs very quickly discontinued. That's necessary! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] One thing is addressed to the Austrian Trade Union Confederation, which I also brought with me. Mr Ververtnich is not here, perhaps he's cleaning his penthouse, but I would have liked to show him that. [[The speaker shows a table containing data on the Austrian National Bank.]] [[May. Peter stands in one of the starting doors of the plenary room.]] Peter! You can read that! [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Peter, if you don't sit in the square, no calls!]] [[Further calls.]] You can read it, Mr Peter! The apprentice learns from his master! I'll tell you exactly. I wonder what the Austrian Trade Union Confederation still needs to do today if it allows a private worker to earn an average of 15 million schillings in the course of his life, while Mr. Commercial Councilman Adolf Wala earns 100 million schillings. It becomes even more outrageous to face up to the pension payments. Pension payments at 18 years of pension amount to 5 million Schilling at a private employee, at Commercial Council Wala 85 million Schilling. The representatives of the Austrian Trade Union Confederation who allow such a thing should be ashamed! I would like - and now I know why the National Bank's collective agreement is so mysteriously closed - that all Austrians employed in the cleaning service would have the gross salary their colleagues have in the National Bank, i.e., about 30 000 S 15 times a year. The honourable Members should think of this once they make these decisions. This is a system defense like in the East Block!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e11483	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Frieser's word. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e11512	Mr. Hazelsteiner! Stay calm, you'll be safe. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, the procedure of Dr. Haider and His are always the same: They show maladministration, indicate misdevelopments. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger:... has called it exemplary!]] The diagnostics are even correct in some cases, but the therapies certainly do not lead to health, but, as in this case, rather to a fatal end. In conclusion, this request does not mean a reform of the National Bank, but its destruction. In this you, Mr Haselsteiner and Mr Novotny, have almost given me the right. A realization in this form, i.e. the resolution and re-establishment of the central bank or the resolution of reserves, would be a dangerous threat to Austrian economic and stability policy. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: The ÖVP could do this again and again: dissolve and start new!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Therefore, we will not agree with this request by the EIA, especially since there is no urgency and the government is already preparing reform proposals in the course of the accession to the monetary union. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: The ÖVP has also reestablished!]] Ladies and gentlemen! But one thing is unfortunately not to be overlooked and not to discuss away. Since 1970, since the Socialists have been the Federal Chancellor, their system of influence in the banking sector has been perfected, without shame and even without fig leaves. I therefore reject the allegation of the red and black pro-porces and ask you not to accept this call for battle by the FPÖ, Mr Peter. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: That was not serious!]] You are a fellow Member of this House. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Now I'm reading to you the Secretary's List: Auracher, Cordt, Kothbauer, Kunz – is there any ÖVPler? –, Lacina, Mailath-Pokorny, Mauhart, Sommerbauer, Reiter, Rudas, Scholten. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You haven't set a federal chancellor for a long time!]] [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: Your party has not been a German chancellor for a long time!]] Then there is a Mr Csaba Székely, and I would think that he would really be a member of the board of directors for the Raab-Ödenburg-Ebenfurt train, because he certainly brought along Hungarian skills. That is why I do not understand why the FPÖ is questioning the qualifications of Mr Székely. But it lives the big difference! Back to the control bank. It's right, Mr Praschak was Chancellor's Secretary, Mr Scholten is out of service. But, Mr Haider, I can't remember ever meeting the Executive Director of Attems as Secretary of State. [[Abg. May. Stadler: But he's black!]] I can't remember that Schmidt-Chiari or Liebscher had ever served as Secretary of State, although some ministers would have been very pleased if this knowledge had been. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Have you met the Zeillinger?]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We will only be able to deal with this skin-goût of political care with a recipe, namely privatizing, privatizing and privatizing! All Western industrialized countries are taking this path. Only we in Austria – and recently, through the CA's take-over by Bank Austria – have taken a decisive step backwards! [[Abg. May. Peter: You must privatize!]] Bring yourself to mind how international experts comment on this fall of sin. I can get you there on the cover story of the "economist" with the title "Death of a Bank". It is precisely those colleagues who have been invited to bear in mind that the flying flags – and I am thinking of you, Mr Hazelsteiner – have been so strongly involved in the purchase of the CA by Bank Austria. They should lead to this article once and for all. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: If the ÖVP brings together nothing better, what remains to be agreed?]] Ladies and gentlemen! We from the EIA have put forward concrete proposals for reform. But we only need reforms that are serious. Our focus in these reforms is on competence and the principle of performance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e11705	The next speaker is Mr Wabl. Speech time: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e11727	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If I look around this house like that, I see a lot of secretaries and secretaries. Our esteemed President of this House was once again, as far as I know, club secretary. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: But he worked up!]] Mr Klubobmann Kostelka was, I believe, a secretary with the Social Democrats. I can even remember his work very well. I can also recall a President of the Court of Auditors who, as I believe, was once Secretary at the ÖVP. Ladies and gentlemen! I don't know what to think of this kind of representation. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: From Secretary to Director-General!]] Mr. Krüger was just a conceptual, probably with a very high-ranking lawyer, he was probably never a secretary. This urgent request points out that Mr Auracher was secretary to the Minister for Finance and Finance. I don't know if Mr. Androsch was once a secretary, but it's just "unbelievable", "unblemished" and a "very terrible" story. We had a Federal Chancellor in Austria, who was once secretary. For ten years this man was Federal Chancellor – and his qualification was secretary! He was once secretary to Androsch, so he was also with a minister. Then, of course, there are cabinet chiefs who were in turn with former secretaries of the cabinet and press spokespersons. Mr. Lacina was also a secretary once, and others were secretary to Mr. Lacina. Ladies and gentlemen! I have a terrible suspicion. [[Abg. Haigermoser: The Wabl was also a secretary once!]] I've never been a secretary. [[Abg. Haigermoser: You may have a secretary!]] Right, I have a secretary, an excellent one. I would like him to be at least a Member, perhaps he will become a Minister of Justice once. I think this secretary is a highly qualified man. Ladies and gentlemen! I suspect that the crime rate among the secretaries is about as low or as high as that of the construction contractors and forest owners. Ladies and gentlemen! You should remember what's happening here: Either these secretaries have been all rivets, and therefore they had to come to other jobs – then you should make this claim here – or – and I suspect this, it is simply a profession defamated here. I have never been a secretary, and hopefully I will never become a secretary. At my age, I'd probably not be taken as a secretary either. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: An apprentice doesn't come to the board immediately!]] A secretary is not an apprentice, Mr Krüger! You should know that. A secretary is in many areas a very special confidant who has to work with highly qualified statements and documents and who is often the secret boss or secret boss. I do not know if Mr Stadler has also begun as a secretary. Not? But I think the Haider was once a secretary. – Now it’s over, the Republic is finally demasked: The "Führer" Haider was a secretary! - I'm not saying anything.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e11820	The next speaker is Mr Helmut Peter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e11842	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The cats don't let the mouse go! Somewhere there are two realities in this country: One reality is the Sunday speeches – what we hear here from the coalition parties – and the other reality is reality. Before this, it is obvious that all the Socialists are running from it because they do not know how to explain to their electors that there are protected areas in Austria where earnings and social benefits are possible, of which people in the competitive economy dare not even dream. Where are the representatives of Social Democracy? – You should consider this discussion! They have left because it is unbearable for them to listen to what happens in their sphere of influence. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Austria – Austrian – people in protected areas: This is obviously the form of increase in this country. And if there were these protected areas without any competition, without any market pressure, without the pressure of daily performance in work, then there would be no price to distribute either. And if there were no grain to be distributed in Austria, the party book would have no value. But apparently the party book in Austria still has a huge value, and obviously there is still a lot of grains to distribute: black plums obviously less, I admit that already, but many, many social democratic grains, because finally, the social democrats have ruled this country since 1971. Ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats! Why don't you ask yourself this question? Run You did not get out of the plenary during the discussion! Discuss with and determine what is really going on in a country where you have been running the government since 1971! Here there are protected areas that are outrageous and a blow to the face for those people who work in the competitive economy, where around 100 S salary is disputed. The pension schemes, too, ultimately all of you have to share your responsibility because you are part of the Supervisory Boards. They have agreed to these pension schemes. And the blacks were there, of course, because they got something of it. – That is an exasperation for the rest of the people in Austria! This has to be held once. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The second thing I can't hear anymore is your privatization ulcers. It's almost out of hypocrisy! I always hear: Privatisation, privatisation. Yeah, why don't anything happen, please? Give these protected areas in private hands, allow competition there, then the competition will regulate everything by itself. Then, of course, pressure will arise, then supervisory councils will be elected, which represent genuine ownership interests. And then the level of sustainable social benefits, which is possible in the sense of benchmarking in a comparison with the best in other countries, will also come to Austria. However, you have to, of course, give up on power. You have to give up your influence, do not smile at the mouse: We bring them there, and we bring them there. But to stand here and say that's not true – that's the controlled schizophrenia! I guess you can't call it otherwise. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I strongly refuse to defame successful personalities in Austria just because they were previously a secretary with someone. There are truly excellent personalities among them, ladies and gentlemen, who have had a political function and have subsequently proved themselves in their profession. Some names have already been mentioned. I wonder if it is not actually a devalue of their personality, if they have only got the job because they have had the right party book: once a black one, once a red one. You occupy a new CA board – yes, such a chance! Two more blacks and two more reds! That this can happen! – This is the controlled schizophrenia of this Republic, which explains to the outside in the Sunday speech, that is all not so, and in reality the day-to-day possession of two parties in that country is taking place, which still believe that this country belongs to them. – The country is not yours! You may serve this country, but it does not belong to you. You should remember that, I think. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] The Austrian National Bank is doing excellent work in Austria. The policy of the Austrian National Bank has helped Schilling to achieve a stability that we can be proud of. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: God bless him!]] This stability is in danger today because Austria's economic data are poor. As long as we are believed to be the Schilling D-Mark binding, the stability of Schilling will be maintained. Erich Schreiner was written in the main book: Only the path of currency exchange from schilling to the euro will continue to maintain the stability of schilling. Ladies and gentlemen! This appreciation of the good work of the Austrian National Bank, however, does not prevent me from saying that it is a classical protected area in which there are social privileges and salaries, pension schemes, settlement schemes, cheap apartments and so on, which is a real blow to every Austrian and every Austrian working in the competitive economy! Ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats! I mean, here's the responsibility: It is not only a shame to go out in the debate, but rather to act against it in your bodies and to say: Yes, the performance of the National Bank is excellent, but not on these terms and not at the price of these social privileges that take place there. [[Abg. Koppler: That's what Novotny said!]] [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] I personally consider the abolition of the National Bank and the re-establishment to be a fascism. At a time when the stability of schilling is really in question to make this great experiment in this form, I think it is simply and grippingly wrong. It may be that it gets over well, that can be already. It's a good sage, I admit that too, but it's wrong in terms of content. I believe that we must take steps in this regard in a reformatory way and really make the pressure that is necessary. Finally, to the Coalition Parties: It would be so nice if you put your schizophrenia down a bit and not just say one at the Sunday speeches and then do the other. Put what you always say in the Sunday speeches, also really do!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e11921	Mr Magistrate has now been reported to speak. Stadler. The speaking time available is 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e11943	Mr President. High house! The Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany has acted as if he were refusing to speak to Parliament and answer a urgent request from the liberals – as if this were a special achievement. He has only overlooked that he is obliged by law to do so, because the Federal Government is the recipient of this request. The Federal Chancellor has already escaped. The Federal Minister has preferred to deal with the subject subordinately and prefer to smoke a cigarette. – Mr Federal Minister, I do not want to miss your cigarette, but I would like to explain to you that you obviously have the wrong secretary. I just want to warn you if you want to make him a Director-General: He seems to have written you a false speech. If you want to make fun of the fact that the FPÖ in its application wants to establish the OeNB as a decentralised administrative body of the Republic, I must say that it seems as if your secretary - I am warning you again - did not take into account the literature before he wrote you what you presented here. Federal Minister! I recommend the book "Austrian Banking Law", published by Anton Orac, an economic publisher, published by Funk, Korinek, Aicher, Krejci, Ruppe, written by University Professor Dr. Pager, the Pope of Austrian Banking Law. And that's where it says under 1.5.2, the second last paragraph – I quote literally –: "The OeNB is in principle different from other banks in the objective and in the enforcement possibilities provided by the statutory monopoly. According to its mission, the Oesterreichische National Bank is a decentralised administrative body – in parentheses: sic – "to qualify to which the function of a central money management body and a monetary authority is transferred." – End of the quote. Look at your speeches! They have made fun of what the FPÖ means to demand a decentralised management body. This is in literature, but your secretary does not know. I am only telling you this because, Mr Federal Minister – you do not need me to teach you because you will probably be a minister for too long; in autumn you will be You are likely to be replaced – because your secretary should not be appointed to this function if he has no idea what a decentralised administrator of this Republic is! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Federal Minister, I strongly warn you of this secretary. It was also gratifying, Mr Federal Minister, to hear that the OeNB is responsible for the fact that there has been a "measured wage policy" in this country – I quote you literally. Federal Minister! A major wage policy for the mass of workers can be easily made easy with a national bank which has lost every measure of its own wage policy, which produces its own grains, which itself can afford the price, as it no longer goes without shame. [[Complaints with the liberals]] Why aren't you, at last, man enough to stop these things, get rid of these things, Mr. Federal Minister? I would like to thank you once again for this opportunity with you, your party and your coalition partner. And I'll tell you why: Since 1992, the opposition, represented by the FPÖ, which also has a monopoly position on this issue, has been awarded this question. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: represented alone!]] Since 1992 you have not been able to take care of order in this privilege jungle! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Since 1992, we have been expecting you from one session period to the other countless cases of a most privileged jungle, and the Federal Government is not acting. On the contrary: It will then explain to us what the "evil" FPÖ requires, everything is not going to be dangerous to the state, Mr. Professor Novotny said that this is a deceiving of Austrian reserves, which is the danger of schilling. – But today, this Federal Government, Mr. Novotny, is making exactly this "state-of-state" policy that we have been calling for for for for five years – namely the resolution of this pension reserve. According to Novotny, the resolution of this pension reserve is a dangerous policy! Federal Minister! Beware of your colleague, Novotny, for Mr Novotny himself wanted to become Deputy Head of the National Bank in 1993 a few years ago, ladies and gentlemen. That is why we know why he thought it dangerous: It was novotny-hazardous – no more and no less, Mr Novotny! Federal Minister! Take note of your party colleagues who claim that after many years of the FPÖ's demand, what you are now making is finally a government policy, partly to resolve the pension reserve and subject it to taxation, is dangerous to the state. Take a stand against these comrades with commitment to the Wehr. The FPÖ has guided you in this right direction. Federal Minister! Address the following to the Federal Chancellor: It is to Praschak's suicide victim that it is almost cynical to say that the Federal Government has no influence on the Austrian control bank. Has the Federal Chancellor not read the will of Mr. Praschak? But you should know it, Minister of State. Mr. Praschak wrote about a visit to you on 14. March of this year – I quote literally –: "16.30: Date at Federal Minister Edlinger. Mr. Bundeskanzler wishes Dr. Scholten to join the Board of Directors of the Austrian Control Bank, who has a right of return to the OeKB." – Yes, a right of return to some directorial posts, but not on the board! And then Mr Praschak goes on to say that the Minister of State agrees that he should pay a minimum political price for the care of Dr Scholten. Federal Minister! What do you think? Your own Federal Chancellor claims he has no influence! He tells Mr Praschak a wish, and you too, that Mr Scholten must be cared for, who is not anyone, and then he says to the Parliament – and I would like to emphasize that he is naughty! –: We have no influence on the Austrian control bank. Mr Praschak shot himself for nothing. Federal Minister! That's incredible. I have reason to believe Praschak's suicide victim much more than your Federal Chancellor! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The Federal Chancellor certainly did not tell the truth compared to Mr Praschak. I believe that there has been an incredible supply policy for the socialists in the Austrian control bank, and a suicide victim has remained on the road. And that's why I'm telling you: If you do not respect the other reasons that have been raised from our ranks, please take seriously the ethos that your own party partners call for. Get Mr. Scholten out of the control bank! Move him! Provide him elsewhere if you believe that this is necessary. It is disgraceful enough for taxpayers to have to pay costs in a bank minister. But get him out of this control bank. It would be a command of grace to all those socialist party members who no longer understand what your government has broken in the control bank. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! This is an appeal I would like to send to you as a voice tube of your cooperative. Their cooperatives now think that what happened in the Austrian Control Bank was indecent. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, it also shows the helplessness of the National Bank's Central Works Council when the fascism clause has to be restored to our urgent request. The Central Works Council was unable to bring a single counter-argument against our request – not a single one; nor, by the way, the General Council – but it screams, which reminds us of the division of politicians before 1945 and of the notorious star of that time. Mr President, I am sorry that my speaking time has been exhausted. [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign]] I would like to explain to you more precisely what beneficiaries of the system are doing these broadcasts that need fascism, because they no longer have any arguments.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e12025	Mr Edlinger, Federal Minister, spoke again. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e12047	Mr President. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! I am personally concerned about the last speech, which has actually been shaken, because it has made it very clear what form of argument is being put forward here. First of all, I would like to say that – and I wanted to separate this from the proposal – the drama that arose from the suicide of Dr. Praschak, and also the legacy you have quoted. It is always extremely difficult to discuss documents of a dead person. I can only tell you in all clarity and in all clarity – I have, of course, no witness other than my personal reputation at this stage of the discussion – that this is actually on 14 April. Mr Praschak and I did not discuss this in this form and not with this content. I would ask you to take note of this. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That was what Mr. Praschak invented?- Oh, my God!]] - I can't judge that. I can only say that the conversation did not take place in this form, for he who knows me knows it is me... – This too is a bad assumption, but that does not come from me. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Now in the afternoon you label Dr. Praschak as a mental illness, right? That's incredible!]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] I only note that the discussion did not take place in this form, and I ask the House to take note of this. [[Sustained calls of the Abg. Dr. Haider]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Don't be angry with me, but that's a cheap explanation! How cheap to be here and say that is not what the Praschak has said!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: He invented it!]] Secondly, I have clearly found that there will, of course, be a legal change with regard to the Oesterreichische National Bank and must come, also with regard to the need for the European Monetary System and the ECB. We will prepare this in good time, with all the aspects that have been developed here today, with a public invitation to tender, with all the structures that are in line with the ECB and the European Monetary System. Thirdly, I would like to point out to you that the structure and participation of the Austrian social partners in the Austrian reality of the economy are important to me; so I wanted to be understood. I believe it is important that employers and employees are also involved in monetary policy. This is part of Austrian reality, and I do not really want employers and employees to be excluded from such an important economic policy issue as monetary policy and related decisions. I believe that the social partnership is a fact of Austrian reality, and I do not really want to destroy that in most European countries. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] For the fourth and last time, I thank everyone – especially the dear God – that it does not depend on personalities like my predecessor, how long I am a Minister of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e12142	In the word, no one has been reported here. The debate is closed. - I ask you to take the seats. We come to the vote on the self-employed amendment 454/A (E) by Dr. Haider and comrades on post-chakers and the friendly economy. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Short debate on the response to the question 2017/AB
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e12179	We are now entering the brief debate on the question answered by the Federal Minister for Finance with the order number 2017/AB. The answer to this question has already been distributed; a reading by the author is not sufficient. Before we go into the debate, I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes. The first speaker has a speaking time of 10 minutes for reasons. Comments of members of the Federal Government or of State Secretarys notified in writing should also not exceed that period. I now give the floor to Mrs Edith Hallera's first applicant for this request. Speech time: 10 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e12209	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! In the media a term has repeatedly appeared in recent times, namely that of family taxation. Mr Finanzminister! Your colleague Bartenstein keeps bringing this word and a corresponding model to the tapet again and again; They are more likely to have a waiting position. We liberals then repeatedly put our model of the splitting procedure into play, and two months ago we made a request to you, which was not answered by you on the grounds that you do not have to do so under § 90 of the Rules of Procedure. They justify this because this request is based on hypothetical assumptions that they do not concern an act of execution, that extensive calculations would have been necessary, and you ask me, as the applicant – I have at least understood – to understand that you will not do this for personal and financial reasons. Federal Minister! I would like to deposit the following: I would like once again to express my concern at the expected new Constitutional Court ruling on family taxation. I have the legitimate concern that one is not willing to learn from mistakes made. ==References== In June 1992, Mr. Finanzminister, that was before your time, the so-called family package was discussed here in the plenary session, based on the first Constitutional Court judgment of 12 June 1992. ==References====External links== In the presence of the then Minister of Finance and the then Minister of Finance, Lacina, I wrote the following in my speech at the time: The package is first of all not in conformity with knowledge, second in the family, thirdly, the cost calculations are misrepresented in the templates, fourthly, it is disadvantaged by the social weaknesses and fifthly, the ÖVP sells it as a multi-children's rating, although it contains only tax deductions or transfers. Unfortunately, all these criticisms, Mr Finanzminister, have been confirmed over the past five years. We liberals have been right in everything. In the near future, there will be a new knowledge of the Constitutional Court. It really stands us in the house, and we will have to change the family tax, which in 1992 is especially your party, but also the government as a whole. That is why, Mr Finanzminister, it is likely that calculations will be necessary. The first were proved to be wrong. I now ask you, Minister of State: How are you going to keep it? Will you not make any calculations at all, will you perhaps make them later, or will you then agree to the model presented and forced by your colleague Bartenstein, which in turn can only satisfy the expected knowledge in part, in the area of the single-earner discount? For the rest, so-called transfer payments in the form of transfers are planned at least by the ÖVP. You, Mr Finanzminister, and I too, know very well that this EIA model will not, in turn, bring tax justice. I now ask you: Should this again become a "wahlzucker" of the ÖVP to the Austrian families, another such mogel package, as one has already pointed it out to the families in 1992? – Several financial scientists have shown what the tax measures in the area of the Austrian government, starting in 1972, have been doing since the departure from fiscal taxation and the transition to individual taxation. I quote as an example the rector of the University of Innsbruck – he is at the same time the Board of Directors of the Institute of Financial Sciences there – Mr. Universitätsprofessor Dr. Smekal: In the final effect, the transition to individual taxation means a departure from the taxation of families, and especially in the medium income sectors, this resulted in a relative reduction in the standard of living. – It is thus a proven factor in the increasing impoverishment of families. And once again Professor Smekal – he refers to the two findings of the Constitutional Court from 1991 –: The clear intentions are to bring about the constitutionally required equal treatment in the sense of horizontal justice... – and –... the package of measures did not alter the basic tax discrimination of persons subject to maintenance and, in so far as it contradicts the recognition of the VfGH. Therefore, if you want to make new regulations, he calls for a target priority catalogue; something that I would also feel is reasonable. And in his summary he says again: The findings of the Constitutional Court were made by the law since 1. In January 1993, it was largely not in line. The Federal Government has not yet followed the order of the Constitutional Court. – Even more precisely, it is no longer possible, Mr Federal Minister! And I'm really asking you: How do you intend to keep it in this area in the future? Will important basic calculations really be too labor-intensive for you to reach a result? – An official would have needed a maximum of three working days to meet our – admittedly something detailed – request. I would like to ask you once again in this context: If this is too expensive, should we not even abolish politics and politicians, because they are also very cost-intensive? We liberals are not loosened in this area. We will again and again demand our tax division model, because that would be taxable. That's proven! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We will again and again confront you, Mr Federal Minister, with new questions. A follow-up request is already formulated and will be sent to you in the next days. They will no longer be able to address a hypothetical question. We will require clear answers from you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e12286	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e12308	High house! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe – and I register this – that at first of all the form of reply was not questioned, which in fact does not represent a meritorical take-up of the discussion. It was not only elected because it corresponds to the legal, constitutional and also to the Rules of Procedure of Parliament, but also because, of course, it can still lead to interpretations and to different conclusions in the examples you have cited – two, three, four possible examples that can be repeated. I admit, however, that the question of the taxation of family taxes or, in other words, the promotion of children-rich families is, of course, an issue on the agenda, which is probably not going to disappear so quickly from the agenda, even if one comes to a solution. This is a question which affects the point of reference from which the assessment of such a question is based, which affects the opinion on such a question. I have a fundamental opinion on the design of family taxation. I am pleased when you ask concrete questions, because they may also be able to start a discussion materially. I did not think that this question, which you originally asked, was particularly appropriate. However, I would like to point out that the rules in force since 1993 on the taxation of family taxes on the basis of the family tax knowledge of the Constitutional Court of Justice of 1991 have been adopted. I guess that's beyond every question. The guideline of this scheme is to take sufficient account of the maintenance costs of the highest earners by means of transfers and then apply these transfers equally to all families, i.e. to the lower and medium-sized incomes as well. In principle, I adhere to this concept, which is also consistent with the political ideas of the two government parties. However, for implementation, it is also necessary to maintain the technology of paying children's loads by means of transfers, i.e. family allowances and child transfers. A tax consideration by means of the extraordinary burden would, as I mean, result in a redistribution from bottom to top, and I do not really want to go this way. In other words, Service providers would be more encouraged than those involved in lower incomes. I therefore assume that the Constitutional Court will not, in itself, question the admissibility of the payment of child charges by transfers. However, it remains to be seen whether the Court of Justice imposes more stringent requirements on the extent of the charge than is currently provided for by law. Should this be the case, the recognition of the Constitutional Court judgment may only result in the extent to which a salary is required for the individual income and maintenance classes. The setting up of concrete calculations of this can therefore of course only be useful after the achievement of the highest judicial knowledge. And since it should also be assumed that there is also a sufficient time limit for discussion and rewording in the event of evidence equivalent to a withdrawal, I will act at the time when the knowledge is available.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e12351	The next speaker is Mrs Binder. From now on, the speaking time for each speaker is 5 minutes. - Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e12372	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The question of the discharge of families in relation to tax law is the subject of a request from the liberals. I think that these discharges are insufficient in tax law. Rather, it is important not to see those benefits that contribute to the discharge of families with care obligations separately from family benefits and measures taken for the Austrian families. Ladies and gentlemen! Family policy can be seen comprehensively. She's got a lot of facets. Transfer services, tax measures, services of municipalities and countries shall be included, such as benefits in kind, social security benefits, for example co-insurance, as well as the free visit to school and higher education. [[Abg. Haller: What does this have to do with taxation?]] All these measures together are necessary and important. They are, as I think, an essential contribution to equal opportunities and to the equality of our children, because children should be at the heart of the children, children with their needs, with their demands, with their demands, but not the wallet of the parents. That is why a clear commitment from social democracy to maintaining individual taxation! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, the social responsibility for families is not done with a monthly sum. We have calculations of what family transfers actually look like per year. I just call a few numbers: In the case of small children it is 22 900 S, for apprentices 21 615 S, for students, for university fees included, 86 610 S annually, to name just once a few sums, and I think these are not small sums. [[Abg. Haller: Mrs. Colleague! What does this have to do with taxation? Explain this to us once!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Above all, it is also about being able to share and share in social life and conditions. [[Abg. Haller: You have no arguments!]] Mrs Haller! All studies say that the impact of distribution also depends significantly on the way in which the benefits and infrastructure measures look, and that the most important part of the distribution effect in the case of benefits in kind, but not solely in the case of tax law. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Benefits from childcare facilities up to schoolbooking and school-free travel, infrastructure that concerns living, leisure, health – these are things that are very, very important. In my opinion, it is not possible to provide for a tax deductibility of the maintenance costs, i.e. to create a better starting position for children of parents with higher incomes. Discrimination against taxable persons who are obliged to receive maintenance benefits can only be mentioned if part of the state benefits is taken into account, but not the costs for kindergartens, schools, universities and so on. [[Abg. Haller: This is what the Constitutional Court of Justice says, Mrs Colleague!]] [[Call the SPÖ: Not yet!]] All of us, I think, but above all we Social Democrats are concerned with improving the living conditions of families with children. We are concerned with the children and not with tax advantages for the family father. Ladies and gentlemen! In the European Commission's Social Charter, there are four major areas which are very important for family policy: The impact of other Community policies on families, in particular the protection of children, better coordination between working and family life and a balanced sharing of family responsibilities, measures in favour of certain family groups, in particular single parents and child-rich families, and taking into account the most disadvantaged families. I believe that we can also transfer these areas to Austria and that the comprehensive measures in the area of family policy must continue to be continued with all their facets, but that family support can certainly not only be concentrated on the tax-law issue.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e12474	Next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Sonja Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e12495	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! The request was clear, but due to the detailed question not to answer so quickly. We all expect the recognition of the Constitutional Court, and in this trained consciousness the question of Federal Minister Edlinger has also been answered. He answered self-confidently like my son at the time when he was lost in the Alpine zoo. I found him again after abundant search, and the question he raised to the Wärter had directed, was: Did you see a woman without me? [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Böhacker: Did you see a woman without a right to vote?]] Ladies, gentlemen! We are all in expectation of a constitutional judgment which examines the tax consideration of family maintenance services in terms of constitutional conformity from the point of view of the principle of equality, but which does not take maintenance services into account as an exceptional tax burden on children or those incomes from the tax which are needed for the maintenance of children. The current legislative procedure is taking place. Only on the basis of the Constitutional Court judgment to be quoted will the questions of the tax additional burden on single earnings, double earnings, single parent families with one to three children aged 15 to 19 years in the income range be calculated and answered between 200 000 and 1.5 million schilling annually or all the detailed questions you asked – for example, by single earnings families with three children aged three, five and seven years. An exceptional burden cannot at any rate be addressed in relation to legal maintenance rights of children within the meaning of the Income Tax Act. But so much can be said in conclusion: The Supreme Court does not in any way consider that only the complete reduction of the amount of income required for the maintenance of children from taxation corresponds to the constitutional principle of equality. The judgment is expected before the summer break. We all have to be patient for that long. The final statement put forward by Mrs Haller cannot therefore be read as follows: If an official in the Ministry of Finance is unable to answer the questions before the Constitutional Court judgment, how long do three need? [[Abg. Haller: Mrs. Colleague! You didn't understand!]] In January, Federal Minister Bartenstein presented a principle model which provides for a linear increase in children's drop-offs by 400 s and a rise in the single-earner and single-earner drop-offs from 5 000 S to 8 840 S, which would still be increased by 320 s per head per month. Let me conclude with a sentence for tomorrow, the "International Family Day": Heat and brightness are not from heaters and lighting bodies, but from the cheerfulness of people and the clarity of cohesion. Indifference and indifference are apologised by nothing. It must be made clear that being a parent is a heavy profession, but in conscious success there is infinite happiness!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e12549	The next speaker is Mr Böhacker. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e12571	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! 100 000 multiple-child families in Austria live below the poverty line. Federal Minister for Finance! That should also give you reason. Every day, the number of those Austrian multiple-child families that fall below this poverty limit increases, and it is unfortunate and incomprehensible to me, Minister of the Federal Government, that you have no calculations in your house of the additional burden on multiple-child families with single-earners. If you point out in your reply that the tense staff situation in your department does not at present make it possible to answer the individual requests, I remember the time when it was about to bind up a load package that burdened Austrian citizens with 66 billion schilling. The staff reserves were very likely to exist, as new models were calculated every day, how new taxes could be removed from the pockets of the Austrians. Federal Minister! You know exactly that in 1972 the tax on households was replaced by individual taxation, and precisely this individual taxation, through the progressive income tax rate, entails enormous additional taxes on single earnings for families with double incomes. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Nor do the proposed single-earner deduction amounts allow for the reduction or elimination of this tax disadvantage accordingly. The biggest disadvantage of this individual taxation is that those who obtain income from non-self-employed work, i.e. wage income, and as a single earner have no way of dividing these wage incomes, in contrast to other types of income, where it is very likely, in general, to transfer them, e.g. from man to woman by means of company share grants or by transfer of corresponding capital income. Ladies and gentlemen! It is therefore necessary for us to try to eliminate this right of control. The aim of all Members of this House who are committed to family policy and to a fair fiscal policy should be to create a minimum tax-free living for each member of the family, i.e. until the minimum of existence, the family income should be tax-free. [[Complaints with the liberals]] In addition, we have developed a corresponding family tax division model, and I can no longer hear the accusation, Minister of State, that it would result in a redistribution from the bottom to the top, because our family tax division model in particular has a cover up, that is, it goes only up to a certain income level, where one can discuss whether this is to be an annual income of about 300 000 or 400 000 S. Only up to a certain maximum is the option possible – not the obligation, the option! – to use this tax-related family division. Only in this way would it be possible to allow tax justice to be exercised. There are examples of this family tax division. There is a division of spouses in Germany, there is the French family tax division. All these models could also be adapted to Austria. As long as, in the Austrian tax rate, the progression bands are very narrow and it occurs relatively quickly that one switch from one progression level to another, from one frontier tax rate to another – for example from 32 to 42 percent – so long it is necessary to ensure for smaller and medium incomes matching possibilities. Ladies and gentlemen! We liberals will certainly continue to operate our family tax division model, and we hope that you, too, will see that this procedure is the right one.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e12634	The next speaker is Mr Dr Kier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e12655	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This debate is quite instructive and helpful, because there are very clear differences in the approach to this political field, namely the question of the family with regard to the social dimension. It becomes very clear, and if Mr Böhacker has just said clearly that the Freedom Party will stick to the family tax division, this is a statement for which we have to thank him, because we now know that the social model behind it is ultimately – option back or forth – covering back or forth –: It is intended to be redistributed in a certain direction by means of the means of the tax right. [[Abg. Böhacker: Not just!]] I understand that with the cover. But, Mr Böhacker, where you really need the money, no taxes are paid there, and that is why the splitting does not help you, for example, with the single parent. [[Abg. Böhacker: Mr. Kier! You forget the negative tax!]] Yeah, but I'll hold on again. I mean, it's important to have heard that. I understand you're different, I'm aware of that. But I now turn to the answer to the question and I would like to say something essential to that. If the Minister of State has put what he has said here in the reply to the question, I cannot follow him, because the calculation is not the problem. The calculation is not the problem, Mr. Federal Minister! The problem is partly the actual lack of data. That's right. When we developed our family transfer model for basic child security, we were actually in a situation where we had to do a lot of research work to get to the data that is not available in the official data sets. But now I ask you, Minister of State: Wouldn't your answer have to be different? If you didn't have to speak like this: Due to the non-existent data, we are unable to calculate that. – That would have been an answer that would have seemed more consistent to me. [[Abg. Haller: Microzensus! It's easy!]] However, she would have had a beauty mistake: She would have explained that whatever is discussed here – even if the Federal Minister believes he wants to remain in the current system of transfers and deposits, and even if Mr Moser represented the government position in the sense of Bartenstein – everything is based on an unsecured data situation. This is the real scandal for me: that in an answer to a question - although very carefully formulated and argued with the difficult calculation - it was revealed that there is no data actually staggered in depth in order to capture child poverty. And this answer, Minister of State, could have made you more clear. Now I admit that the question was perhaps so formulated that one could avoid it, but that was the point of the question. Although he had been raised differently in social policy, because the liberals just wanted to have a family division, the point of the question was: What about child poverty? – The answer has not been given. But we will have to be able to give this answer, because whatever you want to reform and in any direction: If you cannot really explain child poverty, you cannot say that what you propose is better than what we propose. In any case, we have considered the following: If child poverty is a problem, it is due to the lack of performance of the parents. Parents have a duty to take care of their children, and they usually do. Therefore, if parents are unable to take care of their children as they would like, and are unable to spend financially on what they would like for the children, then the state is obliged to do. We were concerned about the data situation, Mr Federal Minister, we did the calculations, and we didn't have to hire a lot of employees in addition; we only had to put off our really good employees for a long time. We therefore know that it would be possible to introduce a basic guarantee for children aged between 5 500 and 7 500 s, taking into account the parent's status, whether divorced, divorced, married, living together or whatever. We will come out with the same volume as you now need for family allowances and deposits, but, I say quite openly, especially at the address of colleagues from the Freedom Party and also from the ÖVP, fully at the expense of the deposits, that is, fully at the expense of the higher incomes. I would like us to discuss this in depth. In science it is already being discussed, in the chambers it is already being discussed. When does the Federal Government start an open conversation? I offer it again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e12719	Mr Oellinger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e12747	Mr Cap! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Minister! I have several problems with this request. This one problem is certainly related to the answer. Minister! The answer has been somewhat poor. You also need to understand the rights of the opposition, which also expect an answer from a request. At least it would have been possible to point out to the Freedom Party that what it has hidden in this request, namely the family division, the tax-free minimum of existence and, therefore, all that has already been calculated in models here in the ideas of the liberals for the promotion of the family for a long time. So it would have been possible to remind you, ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party, that, for example, the Chamber of Labour of Upper Austria has already carried out such model calculations. There are also calculations on the other hand, and I can also tell you their results. Both in the tax-free existence, as well as in the free payment scheme, as well as in the family division, quite certain forms of family are preferred and – apart from many exceptions, but then the effect of this system is again destroyed – richer incomes are favoured towards poorer ones. You can calculate this on the different models. There are these model calculations. [[Abg. Böhacker: Alone earner!]] The final effect of all gross model assumptions – if I do not recover completely complicated and calculated exceptions and limitations – is that the rich are favored. I say to the Greens: I'm sure we're not. I think it is wrong to see that, from the point of view of making family benefits better than the existing ones, we want to achieve only one thing – I can also see that in some of the debates of the EIA, not all of which I admit – that those with higher incomes receive higher benefits from family support than those with lower incomes or no incomes at all. Mr Kier has already pointed this out. The problem is that, with this tax promotion, you do not, in part, reach those who need it most urgently. One example, Mr Böhacker. It is also implicitly stated in the request again and again the single-earner discount amount. You and I, we know that the single-earner discount is not at all bound to the existence of children. That's the problem! This is not a question – what you always write on your flags – of operating certain family promotions, of promoting children. This has nothing to do with family promotion, but it is about promoting the Holy Institute's marriage and nothing else. It is to be said, once again, that there should be an ideology on the tax principle here, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Be so honest and confess to it. I think it is wrong not to link the single-earner discount amount to the presence of children. And that is particularly the fact that, if you are not married, you only live together, the reference of the single-earner discount is bound to the presence of children. – One has to imagine this in all of his pikanery, with which particularly "sophisticated" forms of alleged family and child support we have to do here. A target priority catalogue was also requested from you. Family support – not via the tax system – must not favour a particular family form. That's a target. The richer or the stronger groups of persons must not be favoured. There must be no new dependencies, which are partly the old ones. That's the problem with your family split model. The tax system for which we are acting and which in principle provides for a reduction in family support from the tax system, has primarily the task of redistributing between the poor and the rich and not favouring certain forms of family. – Therefore, a rejection of the single-earner discount, a rejection of a special tax advantage, whether this is now the case with special expenditure or in other areas. There are special expenditures. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Böhacker.]] If it is so, as Mr Kier said, that the concern for poverty is hidden behind it, then one should also say that and explain and write in the request, but not try to achieve this on the detour of tax promotion. If you were serious about it, Mr Böhacker, when it really is about child poverty, you should have put the question in this direction from your side.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e12796	Nobody's reported word anymore. The debate is closed. The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e12818	I shall now resume the negotiations on points 8 and 9 of the agenda. We are continuing the debate. Mr Schwarzenberger spoke next. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e12842	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Following the urgent request and after this brief question, we shall now return to the agenda, in which, among other things, the 1995 forest report is for discussion and decision-making. Among other things, this current forest report 1995 represents very detailed forest conditions, the economic situation of forestry, the issues of wildlife and avalanche farming, the forest planning, the forest organisation, but also the deterioration of the forest by wild and pasture cattle. As regards the forest state, the Austrian Forest Report shows similar results to those in previous years. Austria's forests have an increasing forest area over the last 30 years. From 1960 to 1990, the total forest area in Austria rose by about 200 000 hectares, i.e. an average of 6,000 hectares per year. It therefore operates sustainable forestry. This sustainability is also seen as the annual increase of approximately 31.4 million solid meters, but only 19.8 million solid meters of wood are used. That is, more than a third of the total increase in Austria is stored in the forest. This, of course, results in an increasing supply of wood for forestry, but also in total for the country of Austria. Very many employees depend on the forest, on the forestry industry – whether it be in forestry directly or also in further processing. Only 10,000 workers, workers and employees, work directly in the forestry industry. In 1995, 47 000 workers found employment and bread in the saw and pulp industries. Furthermore, in the further processing industry, in the tableware sector, in furniture production, as well as in wood construction itself, nearly one hundred thousand employees have had work due to the raw material wood. But also for agriculture, the forest is an essential income factor. 214,000 forest owners in Austria share 3,900 acres, 46 percent of the total federal territory. If agriculture recovers from it a final production value of 12.8 billion schilling, for example, the sawmills deliver about 20 billion schilling or the paper industry about 38 to 40 billion schilling. That is, the forest is an essential economic factor in Austria. Very large forest areas are also designated as a protected forest in a mountainous country like Austria. The problem of the protection forest – which is also reflected in this forest report – is above all the ageing of stocks. All over the world, where the forests are not open to forest roads or tractor roads, a single strain withdrawal is extremely difficult. A kahlhieb with rope devices is not possible in a protected forest. At least 750 000 hectares in Austria are designated as a protected forest, which provides protection against munitions, protection against avalanches, but also protection against human settlements. It is also very crucial the question of the cultivation of wildlife and avalanche. I am glad, Minister of the Federal Government, that in 1997 it was possible to secure again higher amounts in the budget for the construction of game and avalanche, when, for example, it was the case in 1995 or 1996, because, throughout Austria, 1 771 municipalities – 74 percent of all municipalities – are affected by wild streams or avalanches. In 1995, 1.7 billion schilling was spent on these protection projects. This is mainly about the protection of the people living in these mountain areas, and about the protection of goods and property. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! However, the forest also has additional functions. I remember, for example, the great groundwater reservoir in Austria. Austria uses only 2 to 3 percent of its freshwater reserves. We know that in many countries on earth groundwater or drinking water has become extremely defective. In Austria, on the other hand, we have adequate reserves on land and drinking water. Due to the increase in wood we also have a significant improvement in the CO2 balance. The unutilised growth of 11.6 million solid meters per year alone binds around 15.5 million tons of CO2. How much has this been seen from the total burden? – The total cost of CO2 caused by human beings is around 60 million tonnes per year. That is, only a quarter of the CO2 load is bound by the increase in wood that is not used. Here the forestry industry is making a significant contribution to the environment, because the oxygen of this bound CO2 is released, the carbon is bound. The debate is also about the Liberal Forum's request to release the forest roads for mountain bikers free of charge. We know that there are a lot of cyclists – both Austrian and tourists – and we are trying to settle this issue on a contractual basis. We also asked the Ministry of Justice last year to prepare or prepare a legal proposal on the liability of the property owner, which is primarily the subject of the discussions. How does a forest owner who has built his forest roads with high cost to pay a life-long pension in the event of an accident, just because the forest road did not correspond to cycling? This question has to be resolved; until then we are prepared to release certain forestry roads, on a contractual basis, where it is possible, where the surface corresponds to a cycling traffic, against charges. The maintenance of a forest road will also cost more if it has to be suitable for cycling than if it only has to be tractor-powered. It is also a question of ownership, whether foreign property can be used without compensation in this area. For example, last year, due to a contract between the Federal Ministry of the Economy and the Federal Forests, we released some 1,000 kilometres of forest roads of the Federal Forests – there are as many private forestry roads that are granted contractually for cycling traffic – for a certain fee. We also have a very large network of agricultural goods routes – in Salzburg alone it is more than 2,500 kilometres – which in this case are free of charge for mountain biking and transport. In the light of the Warehousing Act, the public hand is also contributing to the conservation, and thus the construction is supported. In principle, this forest report represents a very detailed documentation on the state of the Austrian forest. I would like to thank all those who have helped us with this information document, this forest report. Thank you very much! We will, of course, give our approval to this forest report.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e12908	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Peter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e12930	Mr President. Federal Minister! Of course, I agree with the praises of my previous speaker on the forest report. He is pleased, good work has been done, and it is probably not a mistake if a biterl grows more wood than we can now beat. [[Abg. Haller: I don't know if this is such a joy!]] There are no doubt problems, but thanks to God they have become smaller. Of course, as a member of the opposition, you can also understand how to find everything bad in principle. I don't think so. There is enough to criticize, so you can also praise something. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and the SPÖ as well as on representatives of the ÖVP.]] Now I come to a second topic. It's not like you might think Ladies and gentlemen, to mountain biking, no: It's money, as always in life. I quote some high-ranking politicians in our country. Headquarters of the State Gasteiger on a municipal visit: Roads should be opened up to mountain bikers, and in his opinion this should be done free of charge. Our friend Grabner from the Social Democrats calls for a discussion about mountain bikers in the National Council. Amon of the ÖVP is also committed to a release of the mountain biking. The legislator should remove the ban on mountain bikes. I'm continuing with the ARBÖ. I also think of our friend Dr. Puttinger, who claims to be the most vehement opponent of the present solution: 3.70 S per meter is much too much. It is also an eye-catching, according to Puttinger, when promotions flow from tourism to other state organizations – he means the Federal Forest – and so on and so on. So we have a request from me, which is being dealt with today. We have a similar request from the Social Democrats who slumber in the Constitutional Committee, and we have two more petitions for the release of the mountain biking on those streets. These are the petition 7 and the petition 9 that my knowledge in the House has not yet been treated. Ladies and gentlemen! What is it about? – It is not a question of property hostility, it is a question of the culture of a country. After all, we have a land of peculiarity beyond our borders in the West, that is Bayern: a country that is completely affluent, almost communist! In fact, there was a law on nature conservation, and from that I can quote you: Article 21, 5. Section: Relaxation in nature: Everyone has the right to the enjoyment of natural beauty and to relaxation in free nature. - Isn't that a fundamental right? In addition, it also says: The exercise of the right referred to in paragraph 1 shall in principle be at its own risk. – That is to say, all liability issues can be solved easily if you want and if you don’t always have the dollars in mind and say: 4 S I want per runmeter and year from a forest road that I built with 40 percent state support. It will always be shamefully silent. The Germans, our Bavarian neighbours, say on the "Content of the Right of Participation" under 4.2.1 – Mr. Federal Minister, you know it for sure, I am still allowed to read it –: Private roads may enter on foot for the purpose of recreation and be driven by electric motor with vehicles without engine power and with electric motors. This includes, above all, cycling, but also driving with tense and strained sleds. It is necessary that the paths to use these vehicles are suitable. Our Bavarian friends – peculiarly hostile as they are, communistally as they are, will immediately throw in Schwarzenberger – have thus managed to give the mountain bikers the right to stay in the wild. No more and no less will my request, which we were allowed to discuss at the first reading here. The Ministry of Justice also shows us the way how it could go, just... – Aha, we will have that examined. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: The Constitutional Service of the Federal Chancellor's Office has declared that this proposal is unconstitutional!]] The Ministry of Justice says, of course, that the amendment to the 1975 Forestry Act is possible: Admissibility of driving at least forest roads by cyclists, "Sorting" of the cyclist's own responsibility, prohibition of off-shore biking – you can talk to me about it immediately. I want to place the cyclists, the mountain bikers on the forest roads, so that they do not cycle around in the terrain and on the narrow hiking trails disturb the hikers. – The Ministry of Justice also speaks of the explicit anchoring of the privilege of pedestrians in the forest, the explicit anchoring of the privilege of forest management – no question at all, one can block a valley once because a wooden inlay action is – and so on and so on. What's the forest lobby doing? – She employs Dr. Bobek, but already in 1996, and he writes in the conclusion of his opinion: The driving of the forest roads is the devil. That must not be, that is not reasonable to the forest owner, with high effort the forest management is equipped, which is only dimensioned for these purposes. – I mean, the forest roads are 3.50 meters wide, so that only these 28-ton trucks can drive on them. There can't be any more cyclists, because he's damaged the road, as we all know. Only amazingly – hardly any money flows, the reasons of Mr. Bobek are aside. All of a sudden they are no longer valid. Now the forest economy has tapped a new pot from which they say and write to the 4 s per runmeter and year for the additional use of a forest road by cyclists, although it was previously paid 40 percent by the public authorities for the construction of these 125 000 kilometres of forest roads in Austria. – The Federal Minister shakes his wise head. [[Federal Minister Mag. Molterer: I can also say why!]] The Directive on the promotion of forestry measures from federal funds, the Forestry Resolution in 1995, the colluded projects, and so on, brings together quite exactly 40 percent. I think it's a fight, a mirror fight with false arguments. No one – with all that the Ministry of Justice legitimately calls the priority of forest management – is bothered when people, just as they walk, with a sports equipment, of course without a motor, speak with the mountain bike that uses forest roads, so that they no longer cycle over forest meadows and do not ride around on the hiking trails. I think it is a matter of course and I think it is sad that the many mandates of the Austrian People's Party and of the Social Democrats, who have long known themselves, will clearly fall under the forest lobby and will not vote for this proposal today. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e13005	The next speaker is Mr Wimmer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e13026	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Colleague Arnold Grabner is responsible for the forest roads and for mountain biking. He will then address it in his statements. I would like to turn to the forest report and I should like to say that this report is an excellent document and, above all, a very important instrument. We have discussed the problem – and this has already been mentioned today – that this study is about two years old. Perhaps you should consider making at least several parts of this report more up-to-date. I also think it is important to mention positively once again that this annual state analysis is carried out at the most well-founded European level. This report, I think, has an international format. This report can be presented. Like Mr Schwarzenberger, I would like to take the opportunity to thank all those who have helped to shape this report in this way. Ladies and gentlemen! Forest conditions are similar to those in previous years. The forest areas are increasing. Wood supplies are increasing. There are increasing wood increases. It is also gratifying to mention that the increase in foliage and mioculars is noticeable. And yet this forest report does not show a rosy picture of the overall state. This is a very strange situation, but quantity is not always equivalent to quality. As in all the years, the 1995 report also points out the danger of air pollution at first hand, and the problem of waste caused by the wild and the pastures is still up-to-date. As far as the loss of pasture cattle is concerned, it is striking that these plots occur especially in the federal states of Tyrol and Salzburg. But we simply have to think that about 80 percent of the total rejuvenation will fail and could not come up by itself. But it becomes even more dangerous when it is shown that almost 20 percent of the total Austrian forest area is protected forest and is affected by a quarter, i.e. more than 25 percent. Ladies and gentlemen! Our forests are old. Natural rejuvenation does not work at all. Of course, the direct influence of the total management of wild animals on the problem is clearly obvious, as this report also shows quite clearly. It would therefore be essential to find an instrument to be able to influence the implementation of the firing plans from the federal side. I know that I am in contradiction with many hunters, and I am not of the opinion of Mr Grollitsch, who believes that only the stress of the animals is decisive that damage to traffic occur. I think that this is a reason, but not the exclusive reason, and I was actually amazed at how Mr Grollitsch turned the curve to the mountain bikers, so much so that the mountain biker scares the deer, which then begins to bite. I don't think it's easy to see. There are also areas in which the wild stand is simply too high, which must be declared openly, ladies and gentlemen. If you do not look in any form at making the feedings so intense, then the problem will not be solved in the long run. It is also a problem of wild density. If not controlled, this problem cannot be solved. The best conservation forest programmes can also be started. They will remain ineffective if nothing happens. But I would also like to give an example of where natural rejuvenation can be implemented. There are successes where either the wildlife has been drastically reduced, or where expensive wild fences are built. The second, of course, is not unproblematic either, because one knows that when such wild fences are built, roads are usually built before, and nature does not always do so well. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If we want to maintain half a healthy forest, we have to weigh it down and set priorities above all. I believe that a reasonable forest economy must have priority when it comes to choosing between the two variants, I mean the forest economy and the wild economy. This is particularly true when it comes to the protection of forests, because safety is to be guaranteed because people living below this protection forest are affected. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the encouraging outcome of a very large-scale study on how to explore the ecosystems of local forests. Overall, a quarter of the domestic stocks – about 1 million hectares – can be considered natural or natural. A further 41 percent of Austrian forests have to be described as only little human by human beings after scientific evaluation. This means that two thirds of our forests are made up of intact ecosystems, and that is a good balance, ladies and gentlemen. Long-term measures only take years. Forest conservation is a generation project. The reaction time is very long. But it will be very important to coordinate and continue the fight against emissions at European level. In this sense, we would like to take note of the 1995 forest report. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e13087	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). The speaking time available to your group on these agenda items is 18 minutes. [[Abg. On top of that: only 18?]] It's only 18, it's not gonna be anymore. But you don't have to take advantage of the 18 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e13116	Mr President. Minister! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: He doesn't have a manuscript, so it's gonna be long!]] Mr. Klubobmann! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Since this is a maximum speaking time and not a minimum speaking time, I am calmed. Although the subject of forest would be worth more than 18 minutes of speaking time, I think that it is possible to sum up the essential concrete points in short and concise terms. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: But we don't!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wormitzer]] I think that the present forest report on its work by the civil service in this context is a very acceptable, basically positive and realistic paper, but it cannot be overlooked that there has, of course, been the same problem in the final effect for years. In principle, while the deterioration and heightening of the situation – remembering the alarm calls ten, 15 years ago – did not develop as negatively as some feared, which many warned of, but still there can be no talk of relaxation. The forest report in its details paints a picture that shows no substantial relaxation. It is, of course, as Mr Wimmer correctly said, that measures and legislative proposals and concrete legislative concepts only take place in the long term, and that, of course, one of the two main issues, namely air pollution, can only be seen and solved in the international context as one of the two main causes of forest death. Although there are positive and intense efforts, especially when I think of our Northern European neighbours, these pollutant cargoes are not to be handled from today to tomorrow from the Bohemian coal districts over Lower Austria, Upper Austria. They have, above all, a dimension which cannot be compared with own production, for example in the SO2 sector. In this respect, something is certainly happening in the right direction. However, the main point of our criticism in connection with forest management is – this is a discussion that has become public in recent years, because it has become clear what the interests are – the question of wild bites. Environmentally sustainable forest management is without more restrictive hunting laws, which are of course country competence – that is already clear – without meaning, it will bring little. It is only necessary to look at – this is also a comparison that is very specific in this forest report – what it looks like with the areas fenced and protected by forest fences, and the areas that are unprotected. We only have a lot more in the fenced and thus protected areas, especially in the young pines. Of course, this also increases the load of unlined areas and wild waste into the open forest areas. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I believe that a hunting lobby, which is still a vehement political lobby factor in Austria, is one to hear this hunting lobby... – Have I heard it call now? [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] She's always calling from the ÖVP Group! [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: Halali called them!]] Halali called you! Halali would be wonderful. But a serious hunting work cannot be reduced – thanks to God only a few hunters – to pure trophies collection and a pure trophy hunt, which bites strength in the winter, so that in summer and in the actual hunting season, ordinary trophys can be settled in, but also needs to ensure an ecologically sound wildlife situation in the Austrian forest. [[Abg. May. Peter: Hunt mast!]] This intensification of the national hunting laws would be an essential area. There are already protection communities in some federal states, emergency defence communities of forest owners who are right to defend themselves and who rightly see their forest under the laws of the state hunting. The last point is a point that Mr Peter has already mentioned. I told Helmut Peter when he returned to his place, I admire his military power for years – but not for the free entrepreneurship, but for the mountain bikery in Austria. It is completely absurd that, as you rightly said, in panel discussions, we have the approval of all the political groups that there are factions in this House which have already emphasized in our press conferences in all areas that we need, of course, liberalisation. It's no longer contemporary. Of course, we have the situation – and this has already been mentioned – that virtually all neighbouring countries around Austria have opened their forest roads, their forest roads for careful travel. It is not about wild-west situations in Austrian forests. But it is a question of questioning this concept of ownership, which is the real issue we are going to conclude with, which is still represented by parts of the EIA. Could it really be that cyclists are going to disassemble for the use of a forest road, which is also suitable for heavy-tongue trucks? Mr Puttinger! This is a disaster for the tourism industry. We have experienced in all panel discussions how mountain bikers now escape to Bavaria, Switzerland, South Tyrol because they have situations in Austria that are not satisfactory, because they just don't want to be taken out – I understand that well – by those athletes who are active and engaged. This is an emerging group, a group that is certainly becoming stronger and which is also a very massive business for the tourism industry. It is not to be seen that where it goes. One should release the forest paths, as it is actually a very worrying fee – under the strictest terms it is extremely counterproductive in the world – which one has negotiated in this regard. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I'm really asking you: How far do you want to drive this downside mentality? Do you want to introduce a paddle fee on the local rivers if cycling on the forest roads is now only possible for the next time a swimming fee on Austrian bathing lakes? – Mr Puttinger laughs. There's a lot of things he thinks about what else could be realized. In this respect, our creativity in Austria is not so bad. I now have some ideas, but I wonder why the representatives of the tourism industry – some representatives of the tourism industry – are laughing at this. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I mean, it can't be talked about for months around the hot bridle, but what Mr Peter has presented is a feasible draft. This is not the first step. It is not true that an opposition party is attacking the surprising parliamentary groups by coming from today to tomorrow with a totally surprising initiative, but rather, at panel discussions outside essentially consensus everywhere. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! What, then, prevents you from agreeing to this wise request by Mr Peter, just as the Green Group does? Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e13208	The Federal Minister Mag has been reported to speak. Molterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e13229	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to comment briefly on the forest report. The importance of the forest as an economic, environmental and living space factor is growing nationally and internationally. I am therefore very glad that this issue is also becoming increasingly focused on international stage. A special session of the UN will deal with the issue of an international forest convention before the summer. I think that's very important. We see what it means when, for example, a country like Austria is making efforts in the sense of environmental protection, but, for example, when it comes to forest damage syndrome, it becomes clear that international air freighting leads to our being able to do what we want: Regionally, we have problems due, among other things, to air freighting. That is why this international aspect is of crucial importance. Second point: I give the right to all those who have said that there is no reason to give warning to the Austrian forest. However, we should be clear that there are also positive developments that we need to support, such as the increase in deciduous forest or mixed forest. That's positive. It is also no secret that we will have to invest high amounts in the field of forest conservation, for example in the area of rehabilitation. In 1995, for example, 327 million Schillings were spent on the conservation forest renovation alone. Ladies and gentlemen! However, I would also like to comment briefly on the subject raised here by Mr Peter and Mr Anschober. One reason for us to have a study – the Hemerobie study; Mr Wimmer has responded – who has been able to present us with an overall good witness, is probably because we have had the Forest Law for some 140 years. It dates back to 1853 and is probably one of the oldest environmental laws, if not the oldest. For 140 years, the Forestry Act has regulated the orderly use of the forest, all of which are proud. It regulates, for example, how the deforestation and how the reforestation should take place. It lays down that the forest owner is obliged to reforest and to act in the event of damage, or that, if he does not act, he is obliged to do so in order to mention a few examples. The Forest Law is one of the most regulated laws, because it is an important asset in the forest. At the same time, it is said that the state of the forest lies, for example, in the wild, and it is required that a stronger and, of course, organized wildlife management be carried out, i.e. an intensification. Because of the fact that the tourism overuse of the forest causes problems, it is required that regulatory intervention, for example through the spatial planning system, be taken into account. It is required that not everything be done everywhere. The representatives of so-called soft tourism complain that the question of "wild" touring is a problem because the wild is raised by it, which in turn damages the forest. There is nothing else to do with the question of the use of the forest by mountain biking. I am concerned to have an orderly use for this legitimate interest in the leisure industry and those interested in sports. I was recently – Mr Peter, I can warmly recommend it to you! – at the opening of a cycle network of approximately 300 kilometres in my home district in the Ennstal, in Reichraming. It has been found that some of the officials were originally indifferent to the total opening of the forest roads and the liberalisation of the Forestry Act. Imagine that from there I received the feedback that they are now glad that this form has been chosen. Why? – Because the people interested in the region, the representatives of the tourism industry, the tourism industry and the gastronomy with the representatives of the forestry industry, with the people with hunting interests, who also exist, and with the representatives of the nature and forest protection have come to Overeinklang to ensure that this system works perfectly and is assessed positively by all, including mountain bikers. And you know why? – Because the mountain bikers are happy to know where a rideable route is, which is also used in order. I am particularly surprised by you, Mr Peter, that you claim to see the dollar sign out somewhere – but we can discuss it privately. It is only about the whole question that Mr Farnleitner and I have found a good model that regulates orderly use without law. In principle, I do not understand why it is necessary to call upon the legislator immediately in solving any problem, if there are other regulations, from my point of view, even better and more practical. The practice – especially in our homeland, Mr. Peter, in the Salzkammergut and, for example, where I was now, in Reichraming or in the Styrian Salzkammergut – proves that good solutions are also possible without law!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e13281	The next speaker is Mr Wurmitzer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e13302	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If the Greens' opposition party calls the forest report realistic and positive, it must be very, very good! I'm going out of it and I'm actually allowed to confirm it. As far as the forest is concerned, Austria can have any comparison with all neighbouring countries across Europe, both in terms of the overall population and in terms of the rest of the data. Austria has a total population of one billion feet on approximately 3.88 million hectares. In the last reporting period, the stock density has increased, and the overall size of the forest has also increased by around 2,000 hectares per year. The data on forest use can also be seen. Austria uses only around 2% of the total annual population, although 3 percent are growing. That is, if I translate this into the language of capital, we do not even use the interest paid, but only two thirds of it. This form of management really deserves the term "sustainable use". Today, in the Austrian forests alone, there are research reserves of 71 million solid meters. Austria can also play a role in comparison with its neighbouring countries in terms of forest damage. While around 19.8 percent of forests in the EU are considered damaged – in the Central European comparison area approximately 25.3 percent – in Austria, only 6.6 percent of forests are considered damaged. This is the success of the Austrian environmental policy of recent years and decades. Thus, the SO2 emissions in Austria alone have been reduced from 400 000 tonnes in 1980 to 58 000 tonnes in 1994. There are massive efforts by our industry, but also by private households to achieve this objective. There is also a successful reduction in NOX emissions from 245,000 annual tonnes in 1980 to 174,000 annual tonnes in 1994. I would also like to look at the forest from a different perspective. Our forest is a huge treasure for all of Austria. It is a high resource reserve, I would like to say, of invaluable value, because wood is an optimal material. Wood is the only completely biodegradable material we have. There is no second renewable raw material in this world. Wood is also versatile. There is no material that can exceed wood in terms of its versatility. In the course of a construction meeting, the statement was made recently: ==References== In the 19th century, in terms of construction culture, the wooden age will become the age, because wood is also a material that has biological properties that cannot be achieved by other building materials. So far, it has been the fear of the flammability that has prevented many people from using this building material. In the meantime, however, scientific research has shown that the fire behaviour of wood is much better than that of steel. I therefore strongly support the efforts of the "per wood" action to improve the construction regulations and regulations in Austria in such a way that the building material can be used everywhere and in all construction projects. Wood is also a high-quality energy source. The fact that Austria can already meet 24 percent of its energy needs through renewable energy is because Austria has a lot of wood and water supplies. If I'm allowed to take a look, I'd like to say, Wood has a future as a material – for example for packaging. Wood has a future as a building material – it is the ideal material for people-friendly houses. Wood has a future as an energy source – the combustion of wood is one of the few environmentally compatible methods of heat generation. Today, Austria is also a leader in cutting wood consumption. Some comparisons: In Austria, 0.48 cubic meters of wood are consumed per capita per year, in Germany only 0.18 cubic meters, in Switzerland 0.23 cubic meters and in Italy only 0.09 cubic meters, i.e. one fifth of consumption in Austria. So there are still large market reserves. I would like to conclude by saying: If wood has a future, our forest must also have a future!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e13371	The next speaker is Mr Koller. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e13393	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The forest report is very informative. The reporting officers are a real concern to the forestry industry. I would like to draw three points from this forest report: first, the forest, second, the phytosanitary controls, and third, the redundancies. I must say that this report is a year too late. The 1996 report has already been completed. It would be much more informative if this were to be done more quickly. Our forests are located at sites that are vulnerable to erosion by wind, water and gravity, which is why protection measures are essential for soil and vegetation. Reforestation must also be ensured. The Minister said that in 1995 over 300 million Schillings were invested in the forests. I would like to stress that there is still a need for action in this regard. As a result of EU accession, phytosanitary wood control had to be put on a new legal basis. The Wood Control Act in force until then has been repealed. While the conditions for imports of wood from non-European countries have become stricter, liberalisation has come about in the case of imports of wood from European third countries. For example, since April 1995, it has been possible to introduce coniferous wood into cattle from European third countries without border controls. It is true that checks are carried out at the destination, but when the birch beetles have flown out, it is too late. Cross-border control would be more effective. Now to the last point, to the redundancies. For agriculture, redundancies of 490 hectares were officially approved. A total of 214 hectares were required for replacement forestry. The authority is less strict in industry and industry. In the case of industrial or industrial installations, the number of beddings of 272 hectares has been reported as temporary beddings: According to § 18 para. 4 and 5 of the Forestry Act were sought only for a limited period of time. There is a purely forest-economic measure misinterpreted and a loophole. That is why we shall refuse our approval of this forest report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e13433	The last speaker in this debate was Mr Grabner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e13454	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The forest area of Austria is 3.88 million hectares, which is 46.2 percent of the federal territory. 78.5 percent of these are economic forests. Both the situation in agriculture and the situation of the Austrian tourism industry is characterised by major restructuring and is aimed at modernising these sectors for a successful economic future. As has been so often, I would like to talk to you today about a regulation that requires better cooperation between the forest owners, whether in private or in public possession. However, there is still some work to be done in this regard. This is a future regulation of the mountain biking to the satisfaction of all partners. Although I cannot entirely agree with the opinion of the Federal Minister, there has already been a great deal, I would like to stress that. I should also like to say that I have contributed considerably to the fact that we are so often dealing with this issue here in plenary. Why is this so important, ladies and gentlemen? – A survey conducted by the Fessel Institute revealed that 12 percent of all Austrians have a mountain bike and intend to buy another 5 percent. [[The speaker keeps a folder entitled "Sport in Lower Austria" up to date.]] I have a completely new study on Lower Austria, which has not yet been presented to the public. According to this study, 49 percent of the population say they want to ride. In Austria approximately 500 000 bicycles are sold annually. This is of great importance to the economy and tourism. I am particularly concerned because this sport is becoming increasingly popular among young people. The deviation from traditional sports also entails a shift of activities – away from the sports venues, out into nature. This creates social conflicts that will be resolved by politics. In part, they are already successfully solved regionally. An ever-increasing problem – we have already heard it today – is the so-called Pathholder Liability, which usually serves the forest owner as a basis for argumentation not to allow moutainbiking on the forest roads. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Peter.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I can say from my own experience and from numerous discussions that the views of the forestmen on cycling on forest roads are still very different. An increasing number of mayors and tourism experts also recognize a market opportunity and, under certain conditions, express themselves for cycling in the forest. Only recently are the mayors – almost only ÖVP mayors! – the region of Payerbach-Reichenau came to me and asked for help. You want a cycle path from Semmering to Puchberg. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] There you laugh. You represent the economy, you represent the industry and you represent agriculture, but I can tell you: Everyone releases the forest roads when they get something for it. But we Social Democrats do not want you to pay for it. In order to solve the liability question on forest roads and mountain biking, forest owners, local representatives and tourism representatives must sit at a table. It is about designing and implementing a model that avoids legal uncertainty and clearly defines the legal consequences. The argument that remains most common against the opening of forest roads – the SPÖ is known for the general opening of all forest roads with a minimum width of one and a half meters – is that of the liability of the road owners or road owners. These are comprehensible concerns on the part of the respective owners for SPÖ. A release of liability is also indispensable from our point of view. Ladies and gentlemen! As an example of how this problem can be solved, the Steiermark process could be. There, a collective insurance scheme for all forest roads open to cyclists was completed by the LandesTourismesgesellschaft. Liability problems for road owners or road owners are therefore no longer given. This path seems to be more targeted from the point of view of the SPÖ than insurance for individual routes completed by the respective towns and regions. Firstly, this can significantly increase supply, and secondly, there is an increase in safety for cyclists. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! After many years of discussion, a regulation on mountain biking on forest roads was presented by the Tyrolean head of state in April of this year. We welcome this in principle, but we must accept the legitimate criticism – I have already said – of the Tyrolean Chamber of Labour President, who said on this Tyrolean model that the country capitulated against the demands of forest owners. There will still be such a deal that admission fees for hiking and walking will have to be paid. I therefore continue to seek full support from all the political groups, even if they are only a small step forward. Minister! We won't race and rest before we get what's necessary.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e13551	Mr Grollitsch has now spoken. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e13572	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr Grabner, you have stimulated me, with your messages, to make a brief statement on the question of mountain biking. Federal Minister! If you say we don't need a law, then I'm basically right about you, but we have a law on this question, namely the Forestry Act, which prohibits mountain biking and cycling on the way, and the request is aimed at eliminating this body of law. There are, of course, derogations, but, basically, the use of forest roads is prohibited under Forest Law. [[Abg. May. Peter: A relief – no rejection!]] I can also follow Mr Anschober: In fact, it is not possible for a naturally thinking person to see what you can do when heavy-tongued trucks are allowed to drive over these roads, because there should be a bicycle. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreiter: Is there an unnaturally thinking person?]] Unfortunately, the devil is in detail. A general opening is not the answer; I have already tried to explain this to you in committee, Mr Peter. Neither 100 percent of the forest roads are suitable for mountain biking, nor are they required at all, nor is the safety aspect sufficiently taken into account, nor are forestry and hunting involved in this 100 percent solution in any form. It is interesting to track the split tongue of my colleague Grabner over three years. ==References== In May 1995 he said: Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to conclude my speech with the announcement that a joint proposal by SPÖ's agricultural, tourism and sports spokespersons for a forward-looking concept of mountain biking will be possible for our sports enthusiasts, on a legal basis and under non-hazardous practice. - Quote. This announcement was made a year later, on 26 March. On 4 April 1996, Mr Grabner and Mr Gradwelt put forward a request to: The Federal Law, which amends the Forestry Act and permits the use of a bicycle to drive forest roads with a minimum width of 1.5 meters, which is perfectly identical to the proposal of colleague Peter. It also said: "In formal terms, with the exception of the first reading, the allocation to the Constitutional Committee shall be requested." Where does this matter remain? Of course, we can rightly assume that there was no agreement between red and black. Black has crossed how to hear. Red could not get through and evade responsibility. Neither a strategy nor a concept has brought you, Mr Federal Minister, to the solution you have praised, but there was only expectation on this question. Time, however, sometimes brings more reasonable solutions than would be the case with the realization of your concepts. The "Tyrol model" is a highly suitable model. If we bring the municipalities and tourist associations – in agreement with the owners of the land – to understand that about 10 percent of the Austrian forest roads are made available for this sport and are designated as such, we are precisely at the point on which the liberals submitted a request for the Forestry Act in 1991, namely by Mr Peter and Mr Murer. This request states:... thirdly, to provide for the exercise of leisure sports, taking into account the function of the forest. - Quote. What we started in 1991 has now been brought in by us liberals – slightly modified – over and over again, and is still in the debate today. Finally, decide not to enter into the situation you are currently in. – Mr Federal Minister, give me your attention for a moment. At present, it is true that the regulation, including the Tyrolean regulation, is not in conformity with the Forestry Act. The enlargement proposed in the proposal goes too far. This restriction in the law would not be necessary, for example, by this amendment of the Forest Law Section, which we have provided for since 1991. This is not just about the moutain biking; there are many other sports that push into nature. Even with these, one will not be able to resort to it again and again, waiting for suitable solutions to develop by themselves. You were really not active on this question! If the sport itself and the naturalness of development are right there, then it should be so. However, you are still invited to accept this request from the liberals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e13623	There is no more word message. The debate is closed. A final word by the rapporteur is not wanted. I ask you to take the seats. – Mr. Dr. Hazelsteiner, are you taking a seat at the ÖVP? [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: Not yet, Mr President!]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] We shall now proceed to the vote. We shall first vote on the request from the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry to take note of this report III-69 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of this report to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. This report has been adopted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this resolution to be a sign of approval. – This resolution has been adopted by a majority vote. (E 56.) I shall now vote on the request from the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry to take note of its report 675 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign of approval. - That's the majority. This report has been largely taken note of. 10. Point report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the Government template (608 of the Supplements): Immission Protection Act – Air, IG-L (681 of Supplements) 11. Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Protocol on the Accession of the Principality of Monaco to the Convention on the Protection of the Alps (Access Protocol) (682 of the Supplements) 12. Point report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on Amendment No 34/A (E) by Mrs Anna Elisabeth Aumayrond Comrades on the recasting of the packaging regulation (683 of the Supplements) 13. Point Report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on Amendment No 36/A (E) by Mrs Anna Elisabeth Aumayrond Co-operatives on the revision of the Old Load Rehabilitation Act (684 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e13710	We now come to points 10 to 13 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate immediately. Mr Magistrate has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Schweitzer. I'll give it to him. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e13738	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Immission Protection Act, which is coming to the vote today – air, I believe, is not very successful, although there has been a long discussion about it, a discussion that has already begun in 1992 and therefore could have come out better due to the long period of discussion. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] In my view, it is particularly incomprehensible that, despite this long period of time, the time has finally come and that is why Austria had to take a letter of warning from the EU, a letter of formal notice setting a time limit for us to finally decide on this law, because such a duty is for a Member State of the European Union. However, this five-year discussion has ultimately brought no more than this formal duty to the European Union. I mean, this is a section more in the field of non-compliance with environmental law – but at relatively high costs for the Austrian federal states, without actually achieving anything. Federal Minister! For me - I have already told you this in committee - it is not quite understandable that you have not taken this opportunity to present a comprehensive solution. Five years were time! – I admit that within these five years you were not the only Minister for the Environment; They had several predecessors. Nevertheless, you – together with your predecessors – had five years to present a comprehensive solution. There would have been the possibility of eliminating existing multi-tracks. Today, the Imission Protection Act could be an overarching matter: Smog Alarm Act, Ozone Information Act, Air Re Content Act for boilers and other more could have been integrated in it, yes, I think should have been integrated. In the end, we would have had a uniform set of rules and no more multi-tracks, as is the case now. Federal Minister! In detail, it is to be criticised by this law that no specific emission limit values are provided for the protection of forests, that the high costs for countries are not even projected in detail and that the law contains a blockade mechanism, precisely through the veto right of the Minister of Economic Affairs. We will make an appropriate amendment to that effect. Furthermore, the question arises as to how the privatized Federal Environment Agency – then, if this law is to be implemented – should carry out completely independent measurements. Reasons enough, Minister of State, to reject such a law! I am now tabling the following amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] Federal Minister! I would like to say the following to reject the request from the liberals for the revision of the packaging regulation – despite the amendments that have been made in the meantime: It is completely incomprehensible that there is no further discussion about this – and this, although many important points have not been taken up with its innovation, which is not too long ago. This Regulation shall not apply to all packages placed on the market. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Head.]] Discrimination of domestic producers continues to be maintained, although only 30 percent of the packages placed on the market come from domestic producers, but 100 percent of the waste disposal costs must be paid by them. This is an absolute discrimination against domestic producers, which is not least rejected by us. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The approval of private-sector collection systems is de facto not possible. I mean, this is unbearable in a free market economy. The ARA continues to adopt a monopoly position in de facto by the current regulation. In addition, the current packaging regulation is clearly a one-way drive towards combustion. – These points alone would be sufficient to carry out a further innovation. Furthermore, I will prove that a rejection of Mr Aumayr's request concerning the revision of the Old Load Rehabilitation Act was really not justified. There is no legal obligation at present to carry out a reorganisation with the designation as an old burden, nor is there any time limit for the start or end of the renovation. An investigation procedure for determining the causer is not carried out and the designation of the old load is only informed of the property owner, but in least cases is identical to the causer of the old load. On the other hand, the reporting of a suspect area also requires action for the water law and commercial authorities. Where appropriate, the water law authority may initiate a safeguard procedure which may end with a notice that requires the obliged party to secure deposits and soil contamination or to eliminate any abuse caused by them before the suspected area is identified as an old load. This will make it difficult, and what this means, has already been discussed in the Committee by Mr Salzl, who is a mayor of it. If there is an order under the Water Law Act, additional investigations can no longer be financed from old-age contributions – perhaps still a concerned mayor. This creates a very paradoxical situation for many mayors. In Burgenland, many communities are affected by this. The communities are in great financial difficulties, and the mayor himself is, so to speak, standing in the criminal with one foot. In our view, therefore, harmonisation of water law and old loads is essential. In addition, it is necessary to have an efficient system to ensure the financing of old load renovation. You know that the rise is relatively small, that it continues to be evasion of taxes which you do not get under control, and that the volume of funding is far greater than the collection of old-age contributions. In addition, we also need a commitment to rehabilitating designated old loads and an efficient investigation procedure to determine the cause of an old load. So: Most important issues that have not been settled to date. Specificly in the interests of the municipalities, in the interests of the mayor concerned, this request is more than justified by us liberals. That is why I do not understand your rejection of our request. We will not come around to make this so necessary proposal for our mayors and communities once again.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e13871	The amendment previously selected has been properly submitted, duly supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Ellmauer is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e13895	Mr President. Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! A few comments on the Immission Protection Act – Air. There has not yet been a sufficient federal legal basis for Immission Protection in Austria. So far, national environmental legislation has been linked to the emission side, i.e. to the pollutant side. With the Immissions Protection Act – Luft, the Federal Minister for the Environment has ensured that a long-term political demand is met. This law now gives us the opportunity, through the constant monitoring of pollution concentrations, to arrange appropriate pollution reduction measures when limit values are exceeded. The Immission Protection Act – Air, however, not only improves the high quality of Austrian air, but also provides the basis for the implementation of the EU Immissions Protection Directives and the Air Quality Framework Directive. Mr. Federal Minister! They cover a whole range of demands and upcoming improvements in the environment by means of this law. The purpose of this law is to protect people, animals and plants, the soil, the water, the atmosphere, but also cultural goods and other material from harmful environmental effects. And in the case of facilities subject to authorisation, these goods must also be protected against risks, significant disadvantages and significant harassment caused in other ways and must be prevented from creating harmful environmental effects. Overall, this law wanted to achieve long-term and permanent protection against harmful and polluting air pollutants as well as a preventive reduction in the emissions of air pollutants. Furthermore, compliance with Immission Limits should be ensured. Although the law has been strongly criticised and is still being criticised, this Immission Protection Act – air, ladies and gentlemen – represents an important step in domestic environmental protection. Because in the end we create the legal basis for the measurements of air pollutants in Austria, and we create the basis for the establishment of a data association. If there are now border crossings, the new law requires quite a few steps to be taken: First, the cause – that is the so-called status survey – has to be determined, then rehabilitation measures are established – in the case of plants, materials and products, transport and heating systems – and recovery periods in which the renovation is to take place. Finally, Immission limit values are used as conditions for the authorisation of new installations. It can be said that Austria can generally be seen as an example in the European Union as regards the development of air pollutants, but can also be seen as a pioneer in environmental matters as a whole. Austria is leading Europe-wide in reducing sulphur oxide emissions. The sulphur oxide emissions could be reduced by more than 80 percent between 1980 and 1994. As a result, Austria is an OECD leader. According to the Environmental Control Report, the emissions of most other air pollutants in Austria have been reduced. The highest is the decrease in nitrogen oxides followed by carbon monoxide, volatile organic compounds and carbon dioxide. The OECD has also given us a very good witness in its country report on Austria's environmental policy. Thus, Austria's environmental policy has been very successful since the late 1970s. Home environmental expenditure is one of the highest in OECD. We have a special pioneering role in the field of water protection and air conservation. The restoration of our lakes began in the 1970s was highlighted. The municipal and industrial wastewater treatment plants are very efficient. Over 70 percent of the households in Austria are connected to a biological sewage treatment plant. We have also succeeded in decoupling the growth of gross domestic product from the use of energy relatively early. Energy consumption, as measured by gross domestic product, is one third lower than the OECD average. In addition, more than a quarter of primary energy from renewable energy sources is provided in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In the recycling of recyclable material, Austria is also at the top of the OECD countries: Old paper 78 percent, waste glass almost 70 percent. I do not want to thank the municipalities and waste associations or the officials of these organisations who have done excellent information work with the citizens, so that we are also at the forefront of the separation and prevention of waste in Europe. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! As far as the state of the Austrian forest is concerned – we have dealt with the 1995 forest report – we are also top-ranking in Europe, because there have been significant positive developments in this area too recently. Only in the ozone exposure has something really changed. Although the precursor substances have become less, the ozone exposure itself has shown no trend towards decline since 1991. However, it is not possible to get rid of its neighbours as far as pollution is concerned. The Federal Environment Agency shows that, for example, sulphur dioxide is imported into Austria at 95 percent. Our own homemade emissions have been drastically reduced in recent years. Only more than 5 percent – you hear: only more than 5 percent! – the total sulphur dioxide and sulphur monoxide pollution in Austria is due to emissions within our federal territory. Since we know that most of the pollutants come to us across borders, we should rather work in Brussels to make environmental legislation more stringent across Europe, but also to our eastern neighbours, in order to reduce pollution from these countries. We should not, however, constantly ask how the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has done so, but also on the green side, that our own limit values should be reduced and that our environmental standards should be strengthened even further. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I ask you: Do we really want to burden our economy even more with even more stringent conditions, or should it not be our common goal to get stricter European, and that is pan-European, environmental directives? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In this sense, I would like to thank you, Mr Environment Minister, for presenting a balanced law. My group will therefore be happy to vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e14002	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Peter. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e14023	Mr President. High house! Mr Umweltminister! You have to prefer me today. I represent the outgoing colleague Barmüller. Two years ago, the Minister for the Environment Bartenstein started everything quite gratifying. A Liberal has welcomed the fact that an environmental minister says that I want emission certificates and an environmental tax reform. Unfortunately, Mr Federal Minister, you have obviously acquired the normative force of the factish, because the emission certificates have become an emission protection law, and the ecological tax reform has created a burden on energy without reducing the additional cost of pay. – Obviously, the constraints in the government are quite significant. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: Rome has not been built in one day!]] - Yeah, well, but pretty slow, I'm getting impatient. I'll be 50 soon. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dispensers: There are most who will be patient!]] [[Renewal hustle and bustle.]] Our criticism of the Immission Protection Act is where regulation is at the limits of the possible. Whoever reads through the § 14 of this law, which Mr Ellmauer has so much rejoiced, in paragraph 2 of this paragraph, is about who is excluded from the limit values in the case of acute overruns – sees what enormous expenditure on bureaucracy is necessary in order to regulate all these exceptions. The only example of this is how difficult it is to deal with emissions or immissions through regulation, if one does not create markets that work on the emission side, both in the car and in the issue of emission certificates, with very few regulations. I think this is unfortunate, Mr Federal Minister, because the expectations placed in you in this direction were very high. Once again you are stuck in the usual place: The results are guided by the belief that one can really solve all economic and environmental contexts in this state through regulation to the smallest detail. What's left? – legal uncertainty, because regulations in this density did not understand, therefore are not implemented and lead to a bureaucracy and an insane control. Overall, this Immission Protection Act is undoubtedly better than none. Unfortunately – as with many other things – it goes the wrong way. I would like to follow up on what honourable Member Ellmauer said: It would also be much better for me if we had been much further in European environmental policy. The European Union will force us – and I believe that monetary union is not just an economic but even an essential political issue in this context – to a common environmental policy, to a common social policy, to a common financial policy. It is too small a continent, it is too narrow to be able and willing to solve everything in its own area. . For this reason, we will not give our consent to this bill. We are delighted to give our approval to Monaco's accession to the Alpine Protection Convention. I know the biggest problem lies in the transport protocol, but I am also aware of the opportunity to endorse the tourism protocol, which is not yet completed in my knowledge, and may ask the Minister of the Environment to take it on record. The tourism protocol is essentially about one thing: to limit the right of persons who live in leisure areas, in tourist areas, to access at the same time. Whether this is done via the Congestion tax or via access restrictions is indifferent. This is still a very big dispute between the touristing countries of the Nehmer and Donors. But here it is about preventing congestion and thus mass tourism and preserving the quality of life of people, both travellers and travelers. Although the overall situation in tourism in Austria is not about thinking about this problem, it is a matter of the future to say that certain leisure areas must have a simultaneous restriction on access. And this could also be a task of the Minister for the Environment in an Alpine Convention to be included in the tourism protocol. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e14092	The next speech is by Mr Brix. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e14113	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The Immission Protection Act – Air to be adopted today creates an instrument for a long-term effective air response policy to protect health. Mr Ellmauer has already said that we will have a pioneering role in the European Union with this law, and we will certainly achieve a substantial improvement in our already very good environmental situation in part. But I must say one thing, Minister of State: I am of the opinion that we could have improved a little bit in this context, because I believe that some limit values are still low enough. For example, I lack the immission measurement of the mean daily value. We measure the average hourly, but not the mean day. I would also have liked to have done so in the law, with 0.1 milligrams per cubic metre. That would be something that the Academy of Sciences has also called for and I believe it would have improved our environmental situation. Nevertheless, we must say that we have achieved something good in that it is not only the federal competence of air pollution, but also the countries that continue to have their right of co-determination and the Heads of State can intervene. We can take timely action if it is clear who the causers are. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Let me add a second comment on a point where I also believe that we could have done this a little more precisely. We have covered the most important air pollutants in the new law. We have set the concentration limits for sulphur dioxide, sulphur dust, nitrogen oxide and lead in the suspended dust. – I don’t think lead would have to be added anymore, because there are almost no more sources of lead emissions. So that means just an additional measurement and thus an additional effort that costs money, and this money might have been better used somewhere else. We have determined the ozone precursor substances in the Ozone Act. That is to say, with this new law, we have bound up a whole package that serves air pollution and I believe that this will bring about a very great improvement. Ladies and gentlemen! We have discussed the forest report before, and we are glad to hear that the forest has caught itself in some areas. And with this law, something will certainly help him to recover. That is why this law is, in general, a really good one, and I would like to conclude by saying that it would be better if the measurements were carried out more efficiently and the values had been reduced.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e14159	Mrs Ing. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Langthaler. Your club will be available for 9 minutes of speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e14180	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, a bit of this debate also reflects the content of the law: The law is also little exciting and will not change much in this country. We have called for an Immission Protection Act in Austria for many years. The Greens would have imagined this very differently. We have already criticized the drafts that existed in 1992 and 1994 and wanted to integrate a further one, which included at least an ozone law, a Smog Alarm Act and other provisions relating to air pollution. At the same time, we pointed out that this would be an opportunity to remove the fragmentation in the various legislation on matter in the environmental field and to achieve a uniformization in this area. Finally, what you are going to decide today – the Greens will certainly not agree to this – has become nothing but a compulsory exercise towards the European Union. They will implement the guidelines more than late and at the last moment. The Immission limit values you decide here correspond to an Immission Limit Value Agreement from 1987. So whoever turns out here and speaks of a forward-looking and great ecological throw, he actually speaks against better knowledge. We have repeatedly stressed all these issues in the Committee, and also made it clear to you that the sum of the exemptions from this law, especially in the field of transport, but you have also not fully integrated house fire into this law, is responsible for the fact that this law will essentially not change anything. The only positive – and this is also to be noted – is that, under this legislation, a uniform network of measurements must be installed throughout the country and that a uniform exchange of measurement data must also be established throughout the country. In this respect, the data situation will improve. In my view, this law will not in any way improve the situation, against the additional air pollution caused by traffic is not done at all. The main problem area in the past has certainly been managed far better by industry with other legal materials than it would be possible here. There has already been some action in this area in the context of an operating system procedure on the trade regulations. There is no doubt that if we look at the SO2 emissions and the changes that have occurred in recent years in Austria, we will have improvements on the part of industrial plants. But the more up-to-date, more important pollutants, which, as has been said, come out of transport in particular, will not change much. We would also have called for this law, because it was originally a real concern for us, that we should consult the matter comprehensively in a subcommittee and, above all, try to bring about a harmonization that goes beyond that, to comply only with the EU directives, but otherwise to leave it in the final analysis. It would have been important to take far more comprehensive account of all the other legislation on matter, which will be amended with this novel, during the negotiations. I can only agree with colleagues Peter – he is no longer in the hall: [[Abg. Dr Gredler: He's just calling!]] I am thanks to God a little away from the fifties, but I too am already very impatient as regards the question of economic control instruments especially in the field of air pollutants. Of course, there would be the possibility of implementing much more with emission certificates or also by means of an environmental tax reform than you will only be able to achieve by means of this law. Mr Umweltminister! I know the environment has no economic activity at all at this time. We note this in all debates, we note this in the reporting. Unfortunately, this is reflected in the current policy. If something is not really widely discussed in the public, if there is no precipitation in the newspapers, then the Minister will also be more slow, and many Members will be less eager to call for new environmental measures. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Nevertheless, Minister for the Environment: Even if you can't score as much as your predecessors, at the time Minister Flemming, when this issue had a very high level of economic activity in this country and was not overestimated by labour market problems as today, it would be high time to create serious models for economic steering instruments, what happens especially in the field of eco-taxes or in terms of emission certificates. There are interesting models in America that also work. I've been able to see a lot of things. Especially in California, but also in Minnesota or other states, there are already working models. They have all their weaknesses and strengths and are adapted accordingly to the region. But there it worked in some areas. So I think it would be worthwhile to discuss this more seriously in this context, not only in the EIA working groups, which you sometimes speak of in the committee, where this may be the case. All the preceding Members' heads say that every demand of the Greens: We've already discussed this! He means "we" probably the ÖVP board and the officials of the Ministry of the Environment. I don't know who he means. In any case, we in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection have not discussed it. It would be useful to start an initiative here, perhaps together with representatives of the Financial Committee, in order to discuss comprehensively in this area and to see whether it is not possible to find models in Austria, even without waiting for the European Union to introduce, in the field of air – not only in the field of energy, but also in the field of air – resource taxes or even emissions taxes, and vice versa, to reduce additional labour costs in some areas. In particular, if we discuss air and this law, I would like to insist on it, and I would urge you to do so, not in these regulatory measures, which you decide here today, and which in reality, I believe, will not bring anything at all, but to go a step further and above all not to forget the eco-tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e14226	Mr Bartenstein has now been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e14247	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! In fact, the Immission Protection Act – Air is a law that has long been under discussion. Mr Schweitzer is right if he says indirectly that we are entering the House at the last moment with this law – because of a letter of warning from the European Union. I would like to express my express thanks to the members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection for the speedy examination of the legislation in the Committee. I know that it would have been more reasonable, of course, to bring the law to the House at an earlier stage. This was not possible, however, because of the great importance of this law. Mrs Langthaler! Their input note that this law is not enough exciting and that there would not be much change in Austria as a result of this law is actually a compliment for Austria's environmental policy. This is actually proof, provided by the environmental expert of the Greens' Opposition Party, that it has to be good about our air quality. We have, of course, integrated as impact-related limit values of the Immission Protection Act the values that are either specified by the European Union or/or defined as effect-related limit values by the Austrian Academy of Sciences. This means, ladies and gentlemen, that more comprehensive evidence or evidence would not have required it to establish that our overall air quality is satisfactory, although I may also say that, as a result of previous experience in individual cases, excesses are quite possible. But in general, we do not expect excesses based on the Immission Protection Act – air for the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Langthaler! In addition, I can clearly reject the fact that this is exclusively a duty exercise towards the European Union. You will no doubt know that the European Union has not set any limit for benzene in particular. I was surprised that some countries did not want this limit value in the debate on this law either. Since I believe that, in particular, carcinogenicity, i.e. the carcinogenic effect of this pollutant, particularly in cities, is a problem particularly at frequent intersections, we have insisted on integrating this limit value into the law. Similarly, there are no limit values for pollutant deposition in the area of the European Union so far. So, ladies and gentlemen, the law goes very well beyond the EU framework. However, Mr Brix, we have not been able to comply with your wish for an interruption of the lead limit value on our own because it is an EU standard and we simply had to implement EU law with the inclusion of the lead limit value. Ladies and gentlemen! To your criticism of a missing nitrogen oxide mean or limit value. I think you meant that. You have not explicitly mentioned the nitrogen oxides, but I can tell you here that recent evidence shows that long-term protection is better ensured by maintaining an annual average. The WHO Directives, published in the coming months, will contain an annual average of 0.04 milligrams per cubic metre. If there is an opportunity, I am willing to include it in addition to the already existing half-hour mean. The inclusion of a daily mean value of 0.1 milligrams per cubic metre, as required by you, does not make sense in this regard. One argument that I have believed to have dissuaded sufficiently in the Committee has now come again, from Mr Schweitzer, namely the cost question towards the Austrian Länder. I'm allowed to disarm it here again: There is no law, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, which deals with costs on more than 25 pages in the government paper. There is no other law that has been passed to the High House in this country so far. And I can assure you once again, Mr Schweitzer: There are, with the exception of two Burgenland measuring points, all the measuring points that are necessary for measurement in Austria, and the additional costs are quite reasonable; they total between 4.7 and 9.6 million schilling per year for the federal government and countries. It has been discussed in detail with the countries in discussions with the financial compensatory partners, and the countries have also taken note of this position, namely that what has so far been operated by the countries on measuring networks will continue to be operated by the countries and at the expense of the countries. In addition, the new costs, as has been said, are in a relatively modest context, especially when considering the comprehensive importance of this law. It is a comprehensive law. For the first time, in Austria, not only do we control and limit emissions, pollution generation, at a certain source, whether it be a factory chimney, whether it be a car exhaust, measure, control and limit, but we say: What affects people, what affects the plant or vegetation, has to be limited, because that is the really harmful to health, which is the actual environmental damage. This law is of course a milestone. Mr Schweitzer! You are subject to an error here, which I also believe I have already explained to Mrs Langthaler in the Committee if you believe that integration with the Air Re Content Act would have been possible. – No, that would not have been possible, because one would then have mixed an Immission-Emissions-Emissions-Emissions-Emissions-Emissions-Emissions-Emissions-Emissions-Emissions-Emissions-Emissions-Emissions-Emissions-Emissions-Emissions Act, and that would not have been useful. Last but not least, Mrs Langthaler, to the house fire: The small heating systems are, of course, integrated into the Immission Protection Act – Air. I may refer you to Sections 27 and 28. I should like to point out that our own limit values have been set for this purpose. Of course, it must be taken into account that this is a competence of the countries and that we need an Article 15a agreement to make these paragraphs effective. This is now the case in a federally structured state. We will soon come to a conclusion with this Article 15a agreement and thus ensure implementation in the countries. But, of course, these heating systems have not been forgotten or left out in the law, they are there. Let me conclude by saying that this Immission Protection Act – air, for example, in our plant law, will in the future be laid down in our Industrial Regulation that all plant permits will also have to be taken into account in the IG-L Immission limit values. That is to say, this law does not stand alone, but other laws, plant law, industrial regulation, waste management law, have to respect the IG-L Immission limit values. This is a long-term effective law, a classic law of prevention. And I am proud that this is a little exciting law, because this is a good proof of the satisfaction of air quality in this country. Mr President. I thank you for your words.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e14322	Mr Ing. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Langthaler. You have exactly 2 minutes of speaking time; that is the rest of your club's speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e14347	Thank you, Mr President. – Since I really did deal with this law and therefore cannot take note of the fact that the Minister for the Environment simply improves me here, I note with regard to the heating plants the following: Mr Umweltminister! They said the heating plants were integrated into the law. I'll put it right: ==References====External links== Section 27 states: "For certain categories of heating systems... the emission limit values specified in Appendix 4 shall apply in compliance with the test conditions." By an amendment by the government parties ÖVP and SPÖ, § 27 was deleted without replacement. And now the former § 28 of § 27 is, according to which an agreement under Article 15a B-VG must only be reached. In that respect, Mr Environment Minister, it is not true that you would not have had the opportunity to regulate the heating systems here nationally. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that there would be the necessary two-thirds majority for a change in competence and that even in the 1994 draft, such a requirement was intended to impose a district heating obligation on heavy-duty areas. That is why my claim here was correct that you have not covered the heating facilities in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e14377	This was already at the border with an actual correction, which was rather a second word, Mrs Langthaler. [[Call the SPÖ: That's right!]] The honourable Member's head has now been reported on the floor. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e14417	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs Langthaler, Minister of State Bartenstein, has corrected you very well. It is true that, as you say, § 27 has been deleted. However, the Federal Minister has already pointed out that, because of the lack of competence of the federal government or only due to a low partial competence of the federal government, anything other than a regulation on an Article 15a agreement with the countries responsible for at least 90 percent of heating plants would be unconstitutional. As one can now point out in a not really real correction that the government parties together have a constitutional majority and could therefore change the Constitution, I do not want to comment on that further. That would apply to everything and everyone in this country. [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: That was in the government template inside! You didn't know yet that you don't have any skills!]] To correct something where the responsibilities are not clear or... – You can fail overnight once you look at things closely. [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: Please, 1992 and 1994 it was also inside!]] The fact is that the situation of competence is the same and we do not intend to change it. Ladies and gentlemen! Austria has always been very, very high in environmental policy. In many areas of environmental policy, especially in recent years, environmental ministers of the ÖVP have repeatedly ceased to do so abroad with remarkable initiatives, at the end of the day here in Parliament, here in this House, they have found their implementation in national legislation in particular. This high latte, which we have repeatedly laid down, has led us to be excellent today in terms of our environmental situation as far as our environmental values are concerned. It is not just the OECD report that confirms this. To date, however, we have always been able to cope with emission limit values in relation to the issuer or the relevant pollutant, especially in the case of environmental impacts caused by pollutants. This has sometimes not led to an unfair criticism by the economy, by other issuers, because emission is not always the same as Immission, so impact on living beings, whether humans, animals or plants, because there has not always been a direct impact and sometimes it has not been understood to issuers that they have been suffocated with strict limit values, which then had no corresponding impact. Here we go for the first time on the path of Immission Protection – the Federal Minister has already referred to it – namely the setting of limit values in relation to those affected. I believe that this is a very important step forward. And if it has been criticised that this law will not have a special impact on any issuer in the sense of new burdens, then it can only be understood as a praise, as Mr Bartenstein said, as a praise for the fact that we are clearly better in relation to the burden situation in our country than many other countries. There is nothing better for us than for this law and its provisions to be applied as little as possible because of our good situation. Ladies and gentlemen! Long-term policy and, above all, environmental policy with the aim of ensuring the sustainable development of our country sometimes contradicts that short-term pressure on success and success, under which our domestic companies sometimes stand, very often results from completely different framework conditions that the competing companies may find abroad. Nevertheless, it cannot be assessed high enough that, after negotiations with all concerned, the Federal Minister has succeeded in including limit values in this Immission Protection Act – air which is consistently stricter than the relevant EU directives and also as the limit values in comparable countries with high environmental standards. At the end of the day, the government template is the result of tough negotiations, which have achieved a very reasonable compromise, particularly from the point of view of air conservation. However, the exceptions contained in this law simply and simply explain themselves from the principles of sacrifice symmetry. That is to say, it was a proportionality to seek, and it was not, after all, in the intention of the law to impose and order rigorous restrictions on economic or social life in our country, without regard to economic circumstances and without regard to social needs. Again: I think it is very remarkable, under the circumstances, in a difficult time, therefore, Mr Federal Minister, that you have succeeded in including these significant limits in this law. I believe that – and this is what representatives of the Austrian Academy of Sciences, although sometimes misinterpreted here, as has recently been pointed out by Professor Hauk, for example – these limit values are for good, for right, for remarkable, and I believe that this law is a good, a right step in the sense of our previous environmental policy in Austria, a step towards the long-term preservation of a viable environment in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e14470	Mr Volker Kier is speaking on behalf of the European Democratic Group. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e14494	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is difficult for me to bring a bit of momentum into this debate now, because I see that the interest of the colleague in environmental issues is a reduced one. [[Congratulations to Members Koppler and Hans Helmut Moser.]] I think that is a pity, because it is already a matter of subjects that are worth a deep discussion. Therefore, I turn more directly to a political aspect and therefore to the Federal Minister and analyze the Immission Protection Act only briefly. Federal Minister! The Immission Protection Act is no better than the competence for environmental protection. This is once the first central statement. And if my colleague has pointed out before me that it is so, he is right. The level of competence in environmental protection is the same. Therefore, this Immission Protection Act requires an § 27, which says that we will conclude Article 15a contracts. – Well, we could have done so in principle without the Immission Protection Act. [[Abg. Head: For heating systems!]] For heating systems. Mr Langthaler, in her actual reply, correctly pointed out that a clear regulation would originally have been contained in the draft law, although against the situation of competence. Now I can only hope that the Article 15a agreements will achieve something like this. That's one. It is only difficult to make an Immission Protection Act, in which there is more in it, what we can praise than what has already been promised by other oppositional speakers, namely that the air networks have been merged and harmonised and so on. That's something. But: The very much appreciated limit values that have already been mentioned in the discussion today are one, the regulations of the law are the other, and it is very important for me to point out that § 14 of this law is a very remarkable section. In § 14... [[Deputies Zweytick and Leikam stand at the government bank and talk to Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein.]] Mr Federal Minister, I do not want to distract your attention, but § 14 regulates the exceptions. We all know that the main problems we face today in the Immission area are transport. We know that most of the things that cause us serious concerns are triggered by traffic, and that is why it is already interesting to be here in § 14 para. 2 reads when the provisions of the Immission Protection Act provided for here, namely the temporary and spatial limitation of transport, do not apply or for whom they do not take place. I can really ask you: If you have the appropriate materials, please refer to § 14 para. 2 on. For those who don't have that, I'll read you a few examples of exceptions. Except for: In-vehicle vehicles – one sees this – in public service vehicles – one can see that somehow, vehicles of the road service and the waste disposal – one can also see that –, vehicles that are driven by severely disabled, disabled persons – that is plausible – vehicles with which such disabled persons are transported – also plausible – vehicles of doctors, veterinarians, funeral companies in the exercise of their service. Here I would like to say, as a footnote, that: It is interesting that this has become a group. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] This is perhaps a small legitimate fact that the doctors, the veterinarians and the funeral companies are considered to be a single group in the exercise of their duties. Good. But that's actually what you see: Funerals sometimes have to travel on schedule. You can still see that in the case of body transfers. But why you can transport urns at any time, even if there are time and space restrictions, I do not know that. This is also true of funeral companies in the exercise of their service. But that might be too difficult. Another exception: Motor vehicles for passenger transport in the motor vehicles, on-board, on-the-spot and works. - Good. Next exception: Motor vehicles of up to 3 500 kilograms for the purpose of commercial activity, which requires a certificate of the body, which is precisely described here, including the official seal of the national body, that one is a trade representative, and in particular also in the exercise of this profession, i.e.: on duty, and the vehicle must be marked with a corresponding pickerl. – How to control this on the highway without stopping the people, I leave it open, but anyway, it is theoretically possible. Furthermore, listed motor vehicles operating for the purpose of their loading in the pursuit of a business activity in a destination traffic are listed if they either start in the exception area and go elsewhere or start from a non-eligible area and drive to an exception area. In any case, they are also excluded. Only if they drive within the exception zone shall they not be allowed to do so. Other exceptions: Advance and follow-up in combined transport as well as vehicles – not motor vehicles, vehicles! – agriculture and forestry. Vehicles – this is plausible, but the horse-riding factory has made us less worried about emissions. I hope I haven't overlooked an important vehicle; Tractors are in themselves motor vehicles – or perhaps not. I don't want to lose myself. Other exceptions are motor vehicles for driving school operations. The vehicles with electric motors are also excluded. And then there's another last point: Other vehicles are excluded, for their use in individual cases, a predominantly public interest to be examined – well, you see – or a significant personal interest exists. After reading these exceptions, I have no longer found a vehicle that is not excluded in the case of some reasonable application of the law. That's very bad, because you actually thought: If there are exceptions, then clear, precise and slim. However, the objective should be the measure according to § 14 para. 1 C 1 to enforce a time and space limitation of transport and not to regulate the use by exceptions. I think that's bad. I do not consider exceptions to and for myself to be bad, but you could have left out paragraph 1 or entered it: Only vehicles operated for purely private purposes and pleasure purposes may be limited. These are the only ones that remain. For example, if I want to go to the Prater with my daughter, I will not be able to claim that there is a considerable personal interest in using the car; I will feel the tram. [[Abg. Koppler: You don't know!]] Okay. But I drive the tram anyway, because I wouldn't find a parking lot there. I think that this § 14 unfortunately expresses very, very symbolically, the real success in environmental policy. I come to the conclusion now and may remove another paragraph from the law, which is equally symptomatic. I have the feeling that the fact that environmental protection is enshrined in the Austrian federal constitution is sometimes misinterpreted. In reality, it is one of the national targets in the Austrian federal constitution, and that is a good thing. Only: § 22 of the Immissions Protection Act is nothing but a rewording of a state target, and I may expressly inform you of it. There is a law – and a law should serve enforcement and not the announcement of measures – that: Transport-related emissions. In order to reduce transport-related emissions..., transport-specific measures may be provided by the Federal Government." I can only say: Please, we know; this must not be written into a law. Of course, measures to reduce transport-related emissions can be taken by the Federal Government at any time! Why this is a separate section, I don't know, not at all when it goes on to say: "As an appropriate measure, in particular" – this is a demonstrative list of measures, and it reads as follows: "Improvement or re-establishment of transport infrastructure." – I can only say: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, In any case, we need this for environmental reasons, for economic reasons, for many reasons. Point two: ecological optimization of transport processes. – I would like to be ready if you invite me to give you a one-hour presentation on what you can understand by "ecological optimization of traffic processes". But why this blank formula is in a law, I don't know. And point 3 is: "Reduction of transport requirements" and so on. This too is absolutely to be underlined, one cannot be against it at all, only here also: I like to be ready to write an essay, which can be all of that. I would like to think a lot about the commuters, if it were possible to avoid the movement of commuters by just promoting business settlements elsewhere and so on. But that doesn't have to be in a section. I like this in a government statement. I like this very much as a commitment of the Federal Minister A, B, C or D, but I do not understand why this is written as a section in a law. In addition to the reasons that my colleague Helmut Peter has already put forward, these two aspects, the exceptions to § 14 and the absolute void formula in § 22 are very good reasons to reject this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e14571	Mr Oberhaidinger has now been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e14593	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Protection against harmful and polluting air pollutants should only be ensured through a long-term air policy. To do this, we need instruments that act on the emission and immission side. Our previous regulations were almost exclusively emission-side in this area. It may already be as some previous speakers of the opposition parties said that we did not succeed in this bill of law. Nevertheless, it is, I believe, a first important element in protecting against immissions that we are creating here. Ladies and gentlemen! Nevertheless, I am of the opinion that measures that do not even produce emissions can most effectively protect the air from pollutants. My previous speaker, Mr Kopf, pointed out that the Ministry of the Environment has been holding the Ministry of the Environment of the ÖVP Ministers for a number of years, and I can remind you that a Ministry of the Environment was created for the first time in 1972 and that from 1972 to 1986 this Ministry of SPÖ ministers. In the course of this debate today, we can and should point out that a great deal has happened in Austria over the last 25 years. It cannot be said often enough, ladies and gentlemen, that Austria, with about 25 per cent of its total energy consumption from renewable energy sources in the European Union and beyond, I say, is far from at the forefront. In the energy sector, a long-term demand for sustainable development, namely decoupling economic growth and energy consumption, has been largely implemented. It is particularly gratifying to note that industrial statistics have become so self-evident that it seems that we are no longer talking about the environment, although many billions of schilling have been invested. The gross production value has increased by around 75 percent over the last 20 years. Energy consumption fell by more than 2 percent. Unfortunately, only small customers who demand almost half of the energy consumption at 46 percent are still on the rise. If you combine all the climate-effective gases emitted in Austria, these are about 120 million tonnes of CO2 equivalents. Of these, CO2 is almost half, i.e. 60 million tons a year. This CO2 emissions – including the conversion – are divided as follows: From space heating 32 percent, from mobility – speak traffic – 30 percent, process heat 24 percent, mechanical work 11 percent, lighting 3 percent. The importance of space heating for CO2 reduction is also reflected in the Federal Government's climate report, which is based on a resolution adopted by the National Council of 1 January 1990. It was created in September 1994 and underlined in particular. The CO2 reduction potential, which will be identified by the year 2005, amounts to measures such as forcing remote and near-heating, solar panels, biomass, adapting energy-related construction regulations, spatial planning and land-based ordination, and improving thermal quality of heating systems and hot water systems with 7.2 million tonnes of nearly half of the around 16 million tonnes that could be saved and reduced to CO2 by 2005. The demand of the Austrian Climate Advisory Council for the following activities therefore does not come about, and I would just like to take a short look at the groups addressed by the Austrian Climate Advisory Council: Activities in the field of construction and housing development, innovation of the rental law – this is a federal matter, as we do not have to wait for what happens at country level – and opening up the market for thermal old house renovations. Ladies and gentlemen! ==References== In July 1996, the Federal Republic of Germany received 11.83 percent to finance environmentally friendly and energy-saving measures from the revenue of natural gas and electricity. A total of 691 million schillings are thus available to the federal states in 1997. This sum does not include financial allocations for transport measures. The so-called climate billion naturally arouses many desires: For example, representatives of the energy scene want to see their projects financed, finance councils could be trying to use the money to consolidate the budget and to be celebrated as savings champions. Federal Minister! I really urge you to make sure that this does not happen. I mean, protection against Immissions is serious. Ladies and gentlemen! According to the motto: The cleanest energy is still the one we do not consume, should be acted quickly and efficiently by the Federal Government, as set out in the Coalition Agreement. If the measures are implemented quickly and comprehensively, we will ensure clean air, create thousands of jobs and improve our energy balance. You have our support for this, Mr Federal Minister!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e14659	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e14680	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In my contribution to the debate, I would like to focus on old-age rehabilitation. It is only understandable that the problems that exist in the area of budget, budget consolidation, in times of the load package, in times of attempts to achieve convergence criteria, are reinforced by the problem of old-age rehabilitation. I address some of the problems related to the Old Load Rehabilitation Act. Ladies and gentlemen! It is only a relatively small percentage of the actual suspect areas contained in the suspect space. For this reason, the incompleteness of the basic data sheets is stated or made responsible. The Heads of State would therefore stop – I see this, Mr Federal Minister, as an essential measure to be taken on your behalf – to take effective steps to address this implementation deficit. It is noted in the Court of Auditors' report on old-age rehabilitation that there are shortcomings in the recording. There is a very large discrepancy between what is so to speak about the old load contributions, and what would be used as a need for the renovation of the old loads. The multiplier is about 15. This means problems in the areas of costs and time. However, an allocation of priorities may only take place if studies have been carried out before. But these are obviously time-consuming and are not carried out quickly enough. Another problem is the relationship between the Water Law and the Old Load Rehabilitation Act. Ladies and gentlemen! The need to safeguard deposits and soil contamination is certainly essential. The discrepancy that exists between the laws I have mentioned, I want to present briefly. There are many communities – from Vorarlberg to Burgenland – that have the problem of having old mixed dumps in their community area. The problem lies mainly in the old landfills, which in part have already been forgotten, partly closed for 20, 30 years or closed, over which in the meantime has grown in the truest sense of the word grass. On these landfills there are trees, in part there are buildings, in part settlements. In recent years, we have now tried to collect or record these landfills. According to the Federal Environment Office, far more than 20,000 such suspicions exist. Insiders say that this number could double. A horror, as I mean! Ladies and gentlemen! Most of these old loads in the municipalities concerned are not necessarily a problem in the area of the Old Load Rehabilitation Act, they are not included in the old load disaster or assigned to any priority class. They do not constitute a rehabilitation case under the Old Load Rehabilitation Act, and therefore, of course, there is no money for the communities to rehabilitate them. In contrast, this is something different under the Water Law. The Water Law does not know any proportionality or classification according to priorities. According to the Water Law, the restoration of old, partially long forgotten or newly discovered landfills is required. It is required to secure or store them, although there is absolutely no need for this under the Old Load Rehabilitation Act. This costs the communities a lot of money. You can imagine what it means to cost a small community 30 to 40 million schilling. This sometimes results in the financial ruin for the municipality concerned. In a debate I have already allowed myself to point out this illustrious state. I have already mentioned this in the Committee on the Environment. But, unfortunately, nothing has happened as far as harmonisation of God is concerned. I expect that the monitoring of the data sheets, the identification of the drivers of old loads and the acceleration of the rehabilitation measures will actually increase efficiency and that, and this seems to me to be very important, ladies and gentlemen, funding, which is essential, will be ensured.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e14735	The next speaker is Mr Stampler. A voluntary time limit of 8 minutes is indicated. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e14756	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Today, with the Immission Protection Act – Air, we are taking a further step towards long-term air policy. This law is an instrument for protecting human health and animal and plant life. I know that it may not be enough, but it is realistic, and in international comparison this law is a reasonable way that protects the legitimate interests of all. Today's law not only meets EU directives on Immission Protection, but it also sets out a path that has rarely been followed in Austria so far. While Austria has so far adopted almost exclusively emission-side regulations in the field of air pollution, this draft concerns the question of what air pollutants affect humans, animals and plants. Those who have taken a closer look at the explanations made by the Federal Ministry of the Environment, Youth and the Family must be aware, at the latest in Chapter 2, of the importance of regulations on the protection of human life and health. It is precisely this aspect that the Immissions Protection Act takes into account, in particular because, in addition to the measures that can be put in place as a result of a limit value, it also provides for precautions to prevent overrun. The broad definition of the protective goods of § 1 represents enormous progress compared with the previous legal situation. Even if, as requested, there are no special forest limits, the wide definition also ensures the protection of our domestic forests. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In addition, § 3 para. 3 to the Minister for the Environment, Immission limit values also for other protective goods, i.e. also for the forest. The Federal Act first states that in addition to the immission limit values of the Federal Minister for the Environment, Youth and the Family referred to in Annexes 1 and 2, other pollutant values may also be set. Now for the construction itself: Firstly, the Minister for the Environment is responsible for establishing a measurement concept by regulation within six months of the entry into force of this Federal Act. This is necessary in order to ensure a comprehensive and realistic coverage of all air emissions. There is also the possibility for the head of state to carry out pre-exploratory measurements in endangered areas. All collected data should be interconnected. If, after all, an Immission limit is not exceeded due to a crash or otherwise due to a no longer recurring reason, the State Captain shall conduct a status survey. It also has to take into account external circumstances, such as the meteorological situation and so on. In addition, the rehabilitation area should be established and the eligible issuers should be set up, as measures should be taken in accordance with the 'polluter pays' principle. It is important to note that the participation of those concerned is provided for in the form that the head of state must also forward the status report to the legally established interest groups and that they have the right to deliver opinions. Finally, the head of state may also issue a catalogue of measures by regulation. The powers of these measures go very far and can be very strict. If Immission limit values are exceeded by more than 50 per cent for more than one assessment period, even more stringent measures are available to the competent institution. Perhaps some of them may be too long the deadlines of § 12, especially for already renovated or newly approved installations, but it is, I believe, also necessary, in all measures, as important as they are to take account of the interests of entrepreneurs. We have nothing of farms that have to lock but are environmentally friendly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I think it is very important that all measures take account of the interests of others. I know that it would be better to implement all measures unconditionally, so to speak, without regard to losses. In the end, however, this is also a step backwards in the environmental field, because when farms migrate to other countries and produce them, the Immission Protection Act cannot remedy the transport of pollutants from neighbouring countries by means of direct measures. It would be a great deal to say on this issue, on the obligations of approval and so on. What remains is that with this Immission Protection Act, Austria has taken a further step towards greater environmental protection, that this law is thoughtful and enforceable and does not mean excessive red tape. I therefore invite all of you: Voices You agree to this bill – and thus for more environmental protection in our country Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e14838	Mr Dr. Doppelmüller is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e14860	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Langthaler said that the Immission Protection Act was a little exciting law. However, it has given itself a good reason for this. Indeed, in international comparison – and this has to be stressed again and again – we have excellent air quality, and the forest report here today shows that Austria, also as far as the state of the forest is concerned, is in the absolute prime field compared to other countries. Therefore, this law will not overturn much of the current situation, but it will nevertheless bring further progress. Our air has a good quality, but it is still important to improve it. We are particularly concerned about emissions from our neighbouring countries, especially from the northeast, which are going down as immissions with us, but of course we also have massive local problems there and there. Mr Langthaler has admitted that the industry has already done a lot of things there. It has rightly pointed out that traffic, house fire and other issuers have gained in importance. That is to say, this law is not as good as it was necessarily presented by some of the speakers of your party, if one considers it quite sober. But it is by far not as bad as it partly presented the opposition in the media. Today, she hasn't criticised it so badly anyway. I found very funny the comments of the environmental spokespersons of the Liberal Forum who had to jump in today. I hope that in future we will hear Mr Barmüller again during such debates. [[Abg. Dr Gredler: Don't worry!]] There was a small lack of quality, the speeches were a little crampy, especially when Mr Kier quoted § 14 to the end and said again and again that one could understand that there could be allowed, and then at the last point found cause for criticism. But we want to look beyond it. What Mr Schweitzer has put forward here actually had little substance; the Federal Minister has already referred to it. The cost that Schweitzer has played so high here is 4.7 to 9.6 million schilling a year. In the supplement to this law, the cost estimates are extremely comprehensive. Federal Minister! High house! This Immission Protection Act is only partly the national implementation of the EU Air Quality Directive, which has been in force since September 1996. We have been admonished before, there is a letter on this matter. However, this law is more than a mandatory exercise towards the EU, it is also another building block on the way to improving air quality. I would have preferred it if we had the time to look at this area even more closely in a hearing together with some experts. I do not want to judge why we have needed so long until we have reached the final stage, I just know that the negotiations have been difficult. I have been involved in the negotiations since 1992 and I know that there have been efforts to create an Immission Protection Act before. However, this project has not failed in the economy, but actually at the canton of the countries. That must be said very clearly. Now we've finally made it. The Immission Protection Act – Air is a product of the Austrian division of competence: a necessary, ambitious and good embarrassment solution – I would like to cite this for a part of the Immission Protection Act. This is a phenomenon that could also be heard in the opposition – especially at the Liberal Forum – that brought the complaint about the division of competence and the lack of competences. Ladies and gentlemen! It is an Austrian peculiarity that, despite the division of competence in the air pollution sector, we have achieved a great deal, much more than other countries with perhaps more competent laws. I would recommend everyone to look at Stephan Schwarzer's book "Austrian air pollution law", which shows what progress has been made. It is, of course, a little up-to-date since 1986. Federal Minister! However, we have already done a great deal – and this should not be mentioned – in the main problem we have, namely the Immissions that come from neighbouring countries. There is a report from the Eco Fund on this, and it is impressive what has already been improved by Austrian assistance, in particular as regards the caloric power plants in our neighbouring countries. This also benefits us directly. Federal Minister! Of course, this law also contains a number of weaknesses, but I do not want to play up. This law is also a very agricultural law, but to an appropriate extent. But we should take a little more care of reporting obligations, Mr Federal Minister, and I would ask you to check this once. There is also a reporting obligation under this law which you have to adopt. My criticism of this: This could have been incorporated into the environmental control report. I think that this is a purely job creation for the department in your home, which has to draw up the report again. I understand the officials, but in the sense of savings in the UBA, my understanding of this is limited again. But I still noticed something, Minister of State, when it came to working with this law: The Air Re Content Act for boiler plants – a milestone of Austrian air policy, probably one of the best laws internationally – also requires reporting, but not for you, but for the Minister of Economic Affairs, after six and ten years of reports to the National Council. I can now be wrong, but I imagine that in 1995, when the report was due, no report was returned. I can be disappointed, Mr Federal Minister, but I ask you, because the responsibility for the environment lies with you to consult the Minister for Economic Affairs in this regard. I think that this report is long overdue. As I said, It is generally a law that will comply with EU orders, but it is not only compulsory to do so. It could be demonstrated in detail that this first Immission Protection Act, which we have, will also bring about further progress in our air policy.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e14901	Mr Schrefel is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e14923	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The present draft Immission Protection Act finally takes into account a request from the government parties, which was set out in the Coalition Convention last March 1996, namely to establish a precautionary, territorial Immission Protection in the field of air pollution. With the present government template, the Federal Government has acted quickly and has presented a previously missing instrument for discussion and consultation in Austria with a view to ensuring the protection of human health, animal and plant life, communities and habitats against harmful and polluting air pollutants. A legal basis for the definition of Immission limit values, including all limit values and territorial Immission Protection Measures, will also be established. However, the draft does not only provide for the definition of limit values which are required within the EU, but also sets limits which have not yet been prescribed in the EU. The F-Party criticised the fact that no limit values were set: That's not the case. In contrast to the Smog Alarm Act and the Ozone Act, this law is not an instrument for the immediate defence of health damage, but an instrument for a long-term air response policy and thus for the preventive reduction of the immission of air pollutants. On points 12 and 13 of today's agenda: These applications are merely a repetition of the applications submitted by January 1996. In the meantime, the packaging regulation has been innovated and is very likely to target all packaging materials, thus significantly reducing the number of black drivers. There are also private legislation for self-removing. The application for old-age rehabilitation is also obsolete, as old-age rehabilitation contributions have also been converted with the amendment in 1996. . Both requests therefore found no majority in the Committee. Ladies and gentlemen! Overall, it can be said that we have taken a good step forward with the decision-making of today's government paper in the environmental sector, and of course we expect similar targets and standards to be observed in the neighbouring countries. Because bad air doesn't stop in front of the border! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e14966	The next speech is by Mr Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e14987	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I also believe that if the letter had not come from Brussels, we would not have gotten this Immission Protection Act into the house. It would have been further negotiated, and perhaps it would have been negotiated to death. I believe that it is good that this law should be passed on to the House, and I believe that it is also good that it should be decided, also with the shortcomings it is likely to have. This is a first step, and novels will be necessary. It's not what many of us have imagined. It is not a Federal Immissions Protection Act according to German patterns, it is also not a manual in which you can look into what is to be done. But we are getting a useful instrument for national monitoring – and this is what Mr Langthaler has told us – and we will have the opportunity to come to know from the faith through this law. A correlation to the forest report can also be found in this case: In recent years, many pollutants have been said to be the cause of forest damage. There was the problem that every year another pollutant was modern, so to speak, but actually one did not know what caused forest damage. We don't know today either. And if we could see in the very encouraging report that, for example, the damage to oak has fallen from 75 per cent to 50 per cent, although the ozone levels have remained the same, we could also assume that this is perhaps due to the higher rainfall levels in recent years. This monitoring, this representation of the measurement results, will certainly help. The installations on the catalogues of measures have also been addressed by my previous speakers. In fact, the industry has made its contribution, although not entirely voluntary: As a result of the oil price shock, industry has realized that a great deal of money goes out in connection with the emissions from smoking and that poor efficiency also results in increased energy costs, which have once again played a role in the balance sheet. However, the industry has taken one step forward, so I do not feel that the current phase of environmental protection is so restless. The industry is very pleased with regulations on a voluntary basis – ISO 9 000, ISO 14 000 and Eco-Audit. Positively to this law – the Minister and colleague Langthaler also mentioned this – I see the dedicated mention of heating systems. We have already discussed this Appendix 4, which contains a set of emission limit values which are not implemented by the opposition party amendment. Nevertheless, it is worth looking at this investment: There is an interesting comparison of the different fuels: For example, in the case of handcuffed and operated small combustion plants, the carbon monoxide emission is 4,000 milligrams per cubic metre. Minister! There is no indication of sulphur dioxide and nitrogen oxides in the context of coal. Even in case of fire with wood, the values for small plants are 4,000 milligrams or 2,000 milligrams of carbon monoxide, 300 milligrams of nitrogen oxide, and there is a reference to hydrocarbons. Now, in particular, I ask the Greens to pay attention: The hydrocarbons are also represented. In the case of heating oils, the carbon monoxide emission is 100 milligrams compared to 4,000 in wood. The nitrogen oxides amount to 150, which is only half. Even better are the values of natural gas: 80 milligrams, based on 3 per cent oxygen, is lower in concentration than in wood. Ladies and gentlemen! It's far from me to exploit the wood and biomass as fuels. We should be aware, however, that the hydrocarbons, which have, so to speak, such a bad mesh, provide by far the best attainable emission values and do not deserve to be overshadowed. What must be the political requirement? – The political requirement can only be that one strives to improve the technology for wood and biomass burners, too, in order to prevent high carbon monoxide emissions. Ladies and gentlemen! This approach to fuels and combustion plants is due to the conclusion of Article 15a contracts, which the Minister has already mentioned. A great deal of work will be needed in this case to find a solution acceptable to the federal government. Today, Niederösterreich has an Air Re Content Act, which applies only to central heating plants with higher power than 11 kW, and to other fire stations with more than 26 kW. The smaller plants fall through the rust and are not considered. The purpose of the review is to be carried out by competent experts. This is usually the smoke catcher, and it also has to look at the test reports and make notification to the authority. As far as liberalisation is concerned, it is possible to choose a smoker today, which means that no communication to the authority is made and no measurements are made because another smoker does not make them either. The operation lies with the communities, and the communities are hopelessly overburdened with it. Federal Minister! I would ask you to take special care at the conclusion of the Article 15a Treaties. It does not save us from addressing the problem of house fire. I am fully aware that this is not a popular issue because it affects each one of us. At the conclusion of these Article 15a Treaties, we must ensure that we enforce uniform limits in all countries, because it cannot be said that environmental protection is different from the limit values in each country. We must also try to ensure that the entire house fire, including that in small plants, is covered. The implementation and control of the relevant rules should also be considered, as should the solution with the smokers. Federal Minister! I would ask you once again to consider whether we are actually going a right and good way if we are driving an instrument such as the Federal Environment Agency into private procurement and forcing it out of the objective and recognised professional status it currently has. Ladies and gentlemen! For us from Social Democracy, this draft law is a good step towards environmental protection in Austria. We are still talking about further measures. If we start monitoring, we also present our good situation internationally comprehensible! – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e15061	No one is reported in the word anymore. That concludes the debate. There is no final word from the rapporteur. We are entering the voting procedure, and I ask the honourable Members to take the places. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 681 of the supplements. For this purpose, the Members of Parliament have power. Karl Schweitzer and comrades submitted an amendment. First of all, I will vote on the parts affected by the amendment and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Mag. Karl Schweitzer and comrades have tabled an amendment to Article I(3). 3 and 4 as well as § 21 para. 2 refers. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to take action to do so to give a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. I shall therefore vote on the above provisions, as amended by the Committee's report, and I would ask you, in the case of your approval, to give an appropriate sign. – This is done by the majority. The request was accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on, and I would ask you, in the case of your approval, to give an appropriate sign. – This is done by the majority. The request was accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to give their approval to this draft law at third reading too, to give an appropriate sign. – This is done by the majority. The request was therefore adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the Committee's request to approve the conclusion of the State Treaty in 583 of the Supplements. Those ladies and gentlemen who want to do so, I ask for a corresponding sign. . I note that approval has been granted unanimously. We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of his report in 683 of the supplements. In case of your consent, I ask for the relevant sign. – This is done by the majority. The request was accepted. We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report in 684 of the supplements. In case of your consent, I ask for the relevant sign. – This is done by the majority. The request was accepted. The agenda is exhausted. Applications for the setting up of committees of inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e15176	We shall now proceed to the debate on the request of Mr Anschober for the establishment of a committee of inquiry on the responsibility of members of the Federal Government in connection with the Kurdish murders. As this request has now been distributed to all Members, a reading by the author is not necessary. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e15228	We are now entering a short debate – according to § 57a of the Rules of Procedure. The speaking time for each speaker is 5 minutes, for the first speaker as an applicant is 10 minutes. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e15256	Mr President. Minister! I hope you stay! – Ladies and gentlemen, very much! Mr. Mock! Mr Löschnak! We held around six weeks ago the first debate on the first request for the establishment of a committee of inquiry on this subject in this House. Since then, we have published weekly, almost daily, relevant documents and documents in Austria. Three weeks ago, the Federal Government took the apparent flight forward and promised that there would be a report on the causa of the shame of the Kurdish murders in Austria. This attempt to clean up and control a government can, after the outcome was presented yesterday, be considered absolutely unsuccessful. Questions have not been resolved, but, on the contrary, a lot of additional questions have been asked. The three reports show different quality. I agree with the report by the Ministry of the Interior that there is much more fairness and quality than with the report of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which is the other extreme, because it in principle refuses the submission of documents, although the most important documents in this government report are missing. We have specifically counted 21 documents, which would be of central importance to the investigation, but which the Federal Government will conceal in this report. This goes so far that despite the invitation of the Ministry of the Interior to report on a Council of Ministers meeting in which then Foreign Minister Mock outlines the main line in dealing with the Kurden murders, presented the gentle handling and literally spoke of the fact that, if so, a similar procedure should be chosen as in the case of the Libyan People's Office. The presentation of this Council of Ministers report has even been refused to the Ministry of the Interior, and it is a special feature, ladies and gentlemen, that one is now trying to cover up in this Republic in such a way that not even a Ministry for the preparation of its own report receives the necessary files. But that will also have its reasons! This report is, as has been said, extremely bleak. 21 essential documents are missing. We know some of these 21 documents, but not all of them. We will, of course, present parts of it to us so far, in the next few days and weeks, because the public has a right to know how in the event of a targeted breach of justice in Austria the political threads have actually been drawn. It was a violation of the law which had a certain foreign policy tradition and which still has a long way to go, namely, that terrorists who have been registered in Germany can escape from Austria in a targeted way. You only need to read the article in tomorrow's issue of the "standard" and the criticism of the German authorities. In the event of such a breach of justice, it is not possible to talk about the civil service, as is now tried by the political leaders. If one had only a minimum of propriety, one would have to step here to the pult and say: For this and that reason – and this may even be reasons to discuss – there has been the organized escape aid for the Kurd murders of Vienna. However, such an explanation failed. It is only the attempt to cover up and delay tactics that will continue by sending the report to the investigators and the prosecutors in order to investigate them. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! However, the criminal relevance of this matter has been examined to the last detail. The question remains, who in this case has drawn political threads, who is responsible for the basic political concept and who is responsible for the fact that the Kurdish murderers from Vienna were able to flee in substance as a result of the exchange and the talks between the two then Secretary-Generals in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of the Interior. The way in which this deception report and how this recent delay, distraction and drag-off attempt is commented on by the media is as clear as it has been for a long time, as it has not been in this Republic for years. Comment in the "Oberösterreichische Nachrichten": "Schleibung". Comment in "Kurier": "Only an investigation report can clarify these new questions." The comment in the "Press", in which you were not all too critical in the last few weeks, is the most critical at all. It is found that the reports describe a "panseries" and this is very sad – I quote literally – "at least if one believes the reports that are being submitted. But you can't do it." Commentators of quality newspapers in this Republic say: You can't trust government reports anymore. Half-truth is proclaimed, untruth is proclaimed, this federal government is ensnared in its line of defense and flight in a network of contradictions, half-truths and untruths. It is directly represented and assumes that parts of this federal government deliberately speak the untruth, and consciously speaking the untruth means lying. [[Congratulations to the Greens and Members of the Liberal Forum.]] That's a serious accusation! And what does the Federal Government do in this situation, especially within the Austrian People's Party, in the person of the Vice Chancellor of this Republic, who is primarily responsible for this continuation of the cover-up? – She shakes off and tries to move on to the agenda! This is unacceptable in the event of a politically organised breach of justice, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. In any other legal state of Europe, this Causa would have been examined by a committee of inquiry for a long time, at least for six weeks. Some comments: "Highest time for an investigation committee" is a headline of the "standard". Morgic edition of the "Press": "Kurden-Morde: A report and many questions. No one, not even the representatives of the judiciary, trusts that there was no intervention by the head of government at that time." Mr. Mock! Mr Löschnak! Why don't you see the possibility, come to the speaker's desk and finally tell us what really happened in detail at the time? Why don't you say anything? Why don't you give us the answers to who pulled the political wires? Mr. Dr. Mock, I ask you: You're not going to leave clothes in the rain in this situation! At that time, who led Dr. Kletil to make sure that the Iran Embassy was safeguarded on 5 May. It is reduced on December 3 days later that Bosorgian, the assassin of Vienna, was able to escape? Dr. Klestil led to the reduction of the security of embassies – according to the current colleague Dr. Löschnak, who claimed in a question response that he had not intervened, there had been no problems in this regard. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Second point: We have looked at how the then head of the Mock and Löschnak department and also the then Minister of the Interior Foregger informed Parliament. [[Abg. Ellmauer: Foregger was Minister of Justice!]] In a total of 17 points, we have come to the very concrete untruths that have been presented to this Parliament. In 17 cases, Parliament has been deliberately told the untruth – it can be referred to as a very concrete word – that Parliament has been lied! Mr Löschnak! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! You'll get the document tomorrow. You'll be able to see all of this in detail. I can still pass it on to you now. In any case, 17 very concrete points were made of untruth. Ladies and gentlemen! Do you really want Parliament and the public to have been misinformed in this regard for more than eight years? Do you really want to see that this misinformation is kept until the present days, yes, that it continues? Finally, I quote something. ==References====External links== April 1997 the public via APA, that – I quote literally – "be in the Secretary-General" – i.e. in the case of Kletil – "no Iranian intervention has taken place and that the then Secretary-General of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs"...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e15295	Mr Anschober, please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e15311	... "has not given rise to any cause." . According to the report of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, this is also the smooth untruth. Klestil intervened, and Klestil had interventions by the Iranian ambassador. In view of this, I believe that it is now in opposition with Fug and law to apply for an investigation committee. I do not understand you any more if you continue to block here!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e15344	Mr Leikam has now been reported to speak. From now on, the speaking time per speaker is 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e15365	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I do not fully understand why Mr Anschober brings such a thick folder to the speaker's desk, but then quotes only from three newspapers and uses a thin sheet of paper as an argument for a further justification of his request. It would have been much easier, and you should not have done such a hard job, my colleague. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Suspicion.]] But what have we heard now? – Again the reading of newspaper reports, a response to the opinions of journalists, and nothing new has been added again. ==References== April, not for six weeks, but for almost a month, we've been dealing with this matter. But it has remained only with what you have been constantly claiming since then, without putting anything concrete on the table, again and again. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Mr. Anschober! If you think it's a "driving" thing again, then I can tell you: They refer to a report presented by the Minister of Justice, which is the product of three Ministries and covers 200 pages, as a "retardant attempt"! . I can't remember that sometime before, there would have been such a comprehensive presentation as these 200 pages of reports from three ministries. Within one month, the three Ministries have presented this extensive folder at your request. But they claim it's being dragged away, nothing is put on the table. They also said that nothing had been clarified in these files. Let's remember. We must clarify the case of justice, not Parliament. [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] The case must be clarified by Parliament. It has been required by all three Ministries for a chronological list of the operations. That's what happened. Some are still missing in this report. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Suspicion.]] The speaker of the Austrian People's Party will certainly explain this. That's still missing – a part. Everything else is listed, listed chronologically, and the media with this list also come to clear results. I would like to stress once again: I am not of the opinion of the honourable Member, Dr Pilz, the alleged reconnaissance of the nation, who once again claims in today's "NEWS" that the committee of inquiry is the only way to finally clarify the Kurdish murders. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Suspicion.]] I don't think that's the content. The Kurds murders are to be clarified by criminal courts and the documents presented in these 200 pages are also used. You have done nothing else today than quote newspaper articles in the last two debates. This is too little for our group to approve the installation of a committee of inquiry. Ladies and gentlemen! In our view, the 200 pages presented by three ministries, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Justice, on the one hand, confirm the Ministry of the Interior and the former Minister for the Interior, Lösnak, because what he has always said is also documented in this report and confirmed what the current Minister of the Interior Karl Schlögl has replied to a parliamentary request and, on the other hand, that all accusations of green, light blue and dark blue against the Minister of the Interior are not justified by anything. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Suspicion.]] The SPÖ Group will therefore not agree to the setting up of an investigation committee today.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e15430	The next speaker is Mr Zweytick. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e15451	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I can agree with my previous speaker. But I cannot entirely agree with my predecessor. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Rasinger.]] I have the impression that Mr Anschober would like to give us a hand without having any real evidence or facts. I personally have my opinion on this. If one asks for something, one must also ask about the meaning of this demand. With reference to the requested committee of inquiry on the events following the murder of three Kurds in Vienna eight years ago, I am not plausible about the meaning and expediency of such a one. Instead, I have the impression that the opposition from this demand wants to beat populist capital and thus prevents the treatment of really important issues from staying time. If a Member thinks he has to act as a better judicial officer, perhaps he should ask himself whether he has missed the profession. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] For good reason, I believe that we should leave the further handling of this matter to the experts, namely the judicial system. [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: We were elected to control the government!]] None of us were elected to carry out the actual tasks of the judicial system and to interfere in the investigations, Mrs Langthaler. [[Abg. Wabl: This is a committee of inquiry – and not an investigation!]] To be honest: I have the impression that the opposition will soon leave the public with no understanding of this populist abuse of Parliament. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I know. In view of the report on the Kurdish murders, there are no indications of political action or political influence towards improper actions or omissions, which is why I do not understand how to deal with several bodies in the next few months with the same task, i.e. to initiate a dual procedure. [[Abg. Wabl: This is a cold speech!]] Mr Wabl! The advantage for justice is that it can also use the means that Parliament has been denied – I am thinking, for example, of the procurement of legal aid documents. Short and good: I do not believe in the need for a subcommittee, and I am also convinced of the legality of the procedures of the ministers and officials responsible at that time – this is clearly reflected in the report. [[Abg. Well, that's not good!]] [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: All right!]] [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: Are you blind?]] This is clear. Although it is clear to me that opposition policy often tries to be heard with populist argumentation, this has its limits, namely if decent parliamentary work is prevented in favour of party-political calculation. [[Intervocations with the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] That is why the Austrian People's Party will not agree to this request. We will not come to a green branch by pouring Mr Anschober alone, dear colleague of the Greens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e15582	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Stadler. - Same time of speech.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e15604	Mr President. High house! Dear colleague Zweytick! I ask you from the Austrian People's Party to finally stop talking about the investigations of the judicial system that nobody buys you any more. First of all, the Minister of Justice has informed you that no proceedings are under way against the perpetrators in Austria because they can no longer be held liable. – So we can forget that, there is nothing going on at all. Secondly, even if it is read maliciously, the report does not provide any evidence that a Republic's body would have violated criminal law. But not all that is relevant to criminal law is therefore also politically safe. You should finally distinguish between these things, and we could lead the debate much more objectively and, as I believe, more soberly. For not everything that falls under criminal law is therefore also politically safe and without pans – and the report of the interior region clearly speaks of "pans". The report of the Interior admits that there have been pans. That can happen. Now the following questions have to be asked: Which pans have happened in the other resorts? Why, for example, was there no arrest warrants from the area of justice, although the reasons for issuing a arrest warrant, at least against Sahraroodi, have long been obvious? How could an Islamic Republic or any other state in Austria negotiate with an opposition group or any war and conflict parties without the Austrian authorities knowing about it? Is it possible that, as the Iranian businessman pointed out to the Austrian Foreign Office, the Iranian Embassy did not know about this either? One can examine whether this was actually the case, how often it happens, why it happens that the Austrian authorities have no knowledge of such negotiations, which end in a terrorist act, although in Austria virtually everything is incarcerated – we know that, when it comes to political persuasion, there is a great deal possible in Austria, what would be badly possible in other countries – and how it is possible that terrorist organizations with foreign countries engage in negotiations on Austrian territory, which ultimately lead to a political problem for Austria to express it. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! This report - and Mr Anschober is right of course - raises more questions than he explains, for example the question of why the foreign office can promise the Iranian ambassador that a serious suspect like Mr Sahraroodi may leave, that it is therefore safe, although at that time, as has clearly been the result of the file situation, one should already know in the foreign office that this man was under serious suspicion and until then no arrest warrant was issued. So this trip was not so safe at all, and, Mr Foreign Minister, out of service: If a chief official of the foreign office, knowing how suspicious this man is, gives such a commitment, that is something I would like to know about at least as a "pan" in the future and to have been informed in a committee of inquiry. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There's nothing bad about it! It is not mala fide when we try to ensure that such things do not happen in the future. It is also to be examined whether the reduction in the security of the Iranian Embassy in Vienna, as Mr Anschober said, would have been assured that Mr Bosangian could have been tried in court. I have considerable doubts about this. I would have liked to see this happen if Mr Bosorgian in the Iranian Embassy had a diplomat vehicle from the Islamic Republic of Iran to stop the police on the streets of Vienna in order to get this man out of the diplomatic vehicle against international law. We could not have won anything by continuing the full surveillance, but could only see how, in the context of the international law in force, the Islamic Republic of Iran in an unkind act against the Republic of Austria allows a man against whom an arrest warrant exists in Austria to leave. We should examine all these things – emotionally and soberly – and not always talk about judicial investigations that will in fact never exist. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that the Austrian people and the public, as well as the victims, have a right to all these questions being resolved. That is why my group will vote in favour of setting up this committee of inquiry.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e15664	Mrs Dr Schmidt came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e15685	Mr President. High house! As you know, the Liberals have also made a new request for the establishment of a committee of inquiry, and the debate will follow. Then I'll have a speaking time of 10 minutes, now I only have 5 minutes. That is why I will try to divide my arguments. I would like to address my previous speakers, in particular those of the government groups. Mr Leikam! There is no one in this House to explain the murder of the Kurds with an investigation committee. How stupid do you think we are? [[Abg. Leikam: That's in the "NEWS"!]] No, no, no, We are talking in Parliament about proposals which these groups have tabled, and it would be at least if you spoke to us about requests that you look at them in advance and not read the 'NEWS'. These applications state that it is a question of clarifying why the investigation of the Kurdish murders in that country has been prevented. That is the task of a committee of inquiry! And that's why it's so senseless to keep calling to court. Because this is not the subject of these negotiations – it would be nice if you had not already read it, you would at least listen to me now. I have a second argument. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] This debate may have a meaning if the Members were to listen to it sometime, because talking to each other is the essence of such an argument. I mean it seriously and at least I want to try to convince you and remind you of your responsibility as a parliamentarian: It is not about the investigation of the murders, but about the investigation of the handling by Austrian authorities, politicians and administrative bodies, through those who, among other things, even hold the highest office in that state today. Secondly, Mr Leikam – you do not seem to listen to this room more often: [[Abg. Leikam: Master Teacher!]] For if you say that all the words of Mr Löschnak have been confirmed by this report, you must also recognise the need for further debate on it. As you know, more than a week ago, at the request of the Liberals, there was a special meeting in which we made a urgent request to the Foreign Minister. The Foreign Minister told us and all of you, if you were present, that Minister Lösnak had the Council of Ministers on 25 July. In July, he announced that there was no suspicion at all, according to his ministry against Sahraroodi. On the other hand, the report lists on page 10, under points 1 to 8, the moments of proof for the issue of a arrest warrant, which are very likely to occur before the exit of Sahraroodis. Either the then Minister of the Interior in the Council of Ministers said the untruth – or Mr. Schüssel, when he reported on it, said the untruth. One must have said the untruth! And you think that's not worth telling – just because the first thing might have been eight years ago? Then it would be worth considering whether the Minister today dares to lie to us. This information can only be provided by a parliamentary committee of inquiry. [[Call the ÖVP:Hello!]] [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] It's clear if he dares to lie to us! That's what I'm talking about. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: In your place I would be a little more careful in the choice of words!]] It's up to me to explain! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Schwarzenberger.]] Listen before you make your calls! [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: You said the Minister lied to us!]] I think that this information is urgently necessary, and this information can only be made available within the framework of a parliamentary committee of inquiry in which those concerned have to declare themselves under the duty of truth. As witnesses in court, they will not, of course, be questioned because this is not to the point of interest of the court. But you're interested! Mr Zweytick! You say, Mr Anschober – I am really not his defender, he does not have to do that at all – is simply to add: They obviously believe that when the truth comes out, someone stops. So if you think you shouldn't bring the truth to light, then that's probably your parliamentary understanding – not ours! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dr. Schwimmer: This is an understatement!]] If you also think that someone would have missed his profession if he wanted to bring the truth to light, I would like to ask you for your parliamentary understanding, and if, when you did your oath on the Constitution, you looked at the tasks of Parliament to control it! This control task neglects more than rigid. [[In the case of the Liberal Forum as well as the Abg. Dr. Petrovic.]] From your statement that this report does not show any indication of political influence, I can only conclude that you have certainly not read this report. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] I shall speak again with 10 minutes of speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e15844	Mrs Magnette has now come to speak. Kammerlander. Same time of speech.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e15866	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. We have dealt with this issue early today, and I can only say to you once again: I am surprised that you do not benefit from the autonomy of the free Member, far away from the force of clubs. [[Abg. Steibbl: Such a fool!]] One thing I would like to do on this occasion, however: If you have already sent speakers from ÖVP and SPÖ to the Pult, please at least those who have read the report of the Ministries and the applications and do not appeal to "NEWS" as Mr Leikam did and do not know what was requested. [[Abg. Steibl: That's a naughtiness!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Read the requests, because then you can be such a slipper as before, when you believed it was about the investigation of the murders, don't happen! Why you are so excited – and why you, Mr Scheibner, are so excited about you – I do not understand at all, because what Mr Zweytick did in his speech was really pathetic. [[Abg. Steibl: That's all right!]] That was pathetic! [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] An up-to-date speech! Klubobmann Khol, who is obviously the only one who has these ministerial reports, is supposed to comment himself. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: We know the one who made this speech for you!]] Then at least one could at least discuss on a half-wise sensible level. They obviously do not read the documents. I'm going to bring two quotations to that. First: The former Minister of Justice Foregger informed Parliament in a 1989 response that there had been no direct contact between the judicial authorities and the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs. – This claim of Foreggers is rejected by the report of the ministries! She's not right! So he told Parliament the untruth, he lied. I don't want to know anything but the reason! [[Abg. Steibl: What does "loyal" mean?]] [[Further calls by Rosemarie Bauer and Dr. Stummvoll.]] I think he did this not out of passion, but because of interventions and political interests. As a Member of Parliament, I think I have the right to know the reason for this. [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] The second example: In a 1990 response to a question from Minister Mock, he said whether he had evidence that the action had taken place on behalf of or in the knowledge of foreign state bodies, that he had no such information. In the same answer to the question, he also said that he had not been involved by the Iranian representatives. – We know today that this is not true. So it is not true what the former Minister, Mr Mock, told Parliament in a reply to a question. I just want to know: Why did he do that? [[Abg. Steibl: What's the theatre?]] Why did he knowingly lie to Parliament?
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e15983	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) For this accusation I give you a call for order in many years of tradition. Evidence of truth is not permitted.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e16007	But I say to you one thing, Mr President, and also to my fellow Members: If we set up a committee of inquiry, we know exactly what we are doing. What I've quoted has been proven. The two Ministers did not vote in favour of Parliament in 1989 and 1990. [[Abg. Dr. Schwimmer: If you don't know how to behave, we'll set up a committee of inquiry!]] You will continue to make fun of yourself – as do newspaper commentators today – if, after you have commissioned investigations by the affected ministries, you claim: [[Abg. Dr. Schwimmer: You're making yourself a joke!]] It's all wonderful! We've examined ourselves, that's enough now and that fits. Why are you still upset? If we continue this – as a daily newspaper has done today – in analogy, then the examinations of the financial authorities and universities are no longer necessary! All of us now examine ourselves and issue a personal license ourselves. But this will make us a mockery – not only in the media and in our country, but also abroad. [[Abg. Dr. Schwimmer: You want to turn the other authorities off, and that we should investigate everything!]] I can only stress once again what Mrs. Schmidt has already said: [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]] You obviously have the view of parliamentarianism that you should not let the truth come to light, that the truth is to reveal, that it is a very bad thing, in which someone is always thrown, and that everything is best hidden somewhere under the table, then you have a view of democracy which I do not at least share. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Dr. Schwimmer: This is what Petrovic said today!]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] We know each other in good company when I watch the media coverage of the last few days.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e16112	No one has been reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We shall come to the vote on Mr Anschober's request for a committee of inquiry to be set up on the matter here. - I ask you to take the seats. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree with the request for the setting up of a committee of inquiry to give a sign. – This is the minority. The Anschober application is therefore rejected. This means that we can negotiate the request made by Dr Schmidt and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats for the establishment of a committee of inquiry on the political responsibility of the Federal Government in connection with investigations on the Kurdish murders. [[Abg. Dr. Stummvoll: A new topic!]] Here again, the application has been distributed in writing and does not need to be read. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e16183	We are going into the debate. The first speaker has a speaking time of 10 minutes for reasons. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e16207	It is, of course, not very pleasant to talk about the same thing in a second debate. But I would like to call on the Members of the Government to really read the report. It is my firm conviction that if you have read this report yourself, you can no longer argue as before. It's impossible. I also do not want to argue with newspaper sections alone – as Mr Leikam will then say reproachably. But why should one not quote editors whose opinion is fully shared? They're expressing it the way it should be. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Leikam.]] If the newspapers express our opinion – namely, that it is not possible to allow the people concerned to control themselves, and not at all, if even in this report, which comes practically from its surroundings, contradictions are revealed and revealed, how many questions are still open – if everyone who has read it agrees that the report raises more questions than it gives answers, then this cannot be done without a trace! I can't imagine you just saying: I don't care, we're walling! I wonder, do you really care how in Austria key decision-makers deal with the pressure of a terrorist regime? Faith It is not about the need to discuss seriously what steps one cannot sometimes avoid, but to which one must not be forced? Mr. Mock! How did you argue when the discussion in Austria began after the Mykonos judgment? They have argued that Iran has exerted pressure! ==References====External links== April – I can't call on anything else – you first referred to it as "absolutely false" that pressure has been exerted. ==References== April! After Ambassador Schmid – it has already been said that he is politically committed to another party, but I do not think that you will subject him to partiality; You will be right in saying that he is a correct man – a different statement has made, you have said that it is true. If you had been informed about this matter, namely that there had been pressure from Iran, you would not have given instructions, as the case may be, but would have prompted the non-transmission of this information to the security and judicial authorities concerned and would have taken note of the reasons mentioned. So first, you say it's all absolutely wrong. The next disk will tell you that you had just taken note of it. ==References== April, admit that your then Secretary General, Kle Styl, was also informed. That means: First, you dispute everything, and at the same time, according to each statement, you say: Well, it wasn't quite that way, but I didn't give a clue. – You probably also mean the formalized instruction that there is hardly any public administration at all. We all know what a guidance and what influence is. That doesn't need to be a formalized instruction! These are the things I think of: It cannot really be accepted by a whole group of two parties, the government, that such contradictions are simply granted, and you say there is no need to talk about them. Do you not believe that this is damaging to Austria's reputation? Do you not believe that it is at least unpleasant if the newspapers deal with this issue beyond our borders and report their doubts about the correctness and correctness of the proceedings at that time? As a former foreign minister, do you care about the reputation of Austria outside? I do not understand at all that you have no other argument than that the courts that have nothing to do with all this should examine. But that's not all. It is also about asking for the motivation behind all these processes. I quote a journalist who writes that one could only suspect the motives that Tehran might have threatened to spread details about the illegal delivery of "Noricum" cannons. Does it matter to you that such a presumption persists in space? If you feel that this is an immeasurable one, then you will disarm it in the right body, wherever it is credible. [[Abg. Dr. Mock: Yes!]] [[Abg. Dr. Schwimmer: We have 50,000 journalists, and everyone can suspect!]] It may also have been economic pressure or the serious concern that Austrians might be harmed. All of this is quite possible. [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: That’s a logic!]] But apart from doubt, at least your reputation in the public is that you have been transferred to the papers of untruth, namely the finding: Mock's statements and explanations are wrong! I also think it is incredible that Parliament should be able to do so. It can be argued that it has been a long time since Mr Foregger, Minister of Justice, misinformed this Parliament. I quote – that's why it's not orderly when I see it correctly –: The Parliament was misinformed by its former Minister of Justice, Foregger. He claimed in the National Council in November 1989 that there had been no contacts between the judicial authorities and the foreign office. – That was a lie. It is true and it is so, and you can see that if you look at this report today. And that's where you say: There's nothing new about it? - You shake your head! Is it for you that the Minister of Justice at the time has lied?
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e16272	Mrs Dr Schmidt! I call for an order for the claim that the Minister of Justice has lied, because that was not a quote.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e16290	That's right. I take note of that. But it wasn't different at the moment. [[Abg. Dr. Mock: Shame!]] No, I don't think so! Do you know when I'd be ashamed? – I would be ashamed if I had contributed and contributed to the fact that all these things are not being clarified! Then I'd be ashamed! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] It is unbearable for this Parliament to accept that a week ago it was told by the Foreign Minister in the context of a urgent question that, as I said earlier, there are no grounds for suspicion against Sahraroodi, but that we are then given a report listing all the suspects in question under paragraphs 1 to 8. This proves that the Ministry of the Interior was of the opinion that a warrant would have been justified, but the Ministry of Justice did not wish to issue it. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's it!]] That is why I would like to know: Why didn't you want to show him? Are you not interested in all of this? But even if you are not interested in all of this, I still think it is irresponsible for you to allow the President-in-Office to be suspected, under suspicion... [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: You lost against him! That could be late revenge!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Bring Now You have this ridiculous argument again, I really can't take it seriously! For then the President of the Federal Republic is under suspicion, either of the pressure exerted by Iran, or of misinformed the people by saying: That's not how it all happened. I believe that it is important that this be clarified, because if he has passed the pressure on, it is important to know: How does a Federal President deal with the pressure coming from abroad? – To know that would be important! This is important for every decision! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: That's dirty!]] If that's not the case, I'd be more than right. I would like to see at the head of the state a Federal President of whom I can be sure that he does not put any pressure on him. That is why it is also in my interest to clarify this. And I would also like to be able to rely on a President of the Federal Republic to tell the people the truth even if he himself should be affected by something unpleasant. To clarify and restore this credibility is only a matter for a parliamentary committee of inquiry. Give him this chance!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e16387	The next speaker is Member of Parliament. His speaking time and the following speakers are, as we know, 5 minutes. Please, Mr Anschober.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e16409	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I join where Mrs Dr Schmidt has stopped, namely in her reflections on the President of the Federal Republic of Germany. In my first speech, I have not quite come to say that, but the debates on the setting up of committee of inquiry have the positive aspect of sometimes speaking two or three times when several requests are made. The President of the Federal Republic of Germany was elected on 21 December. In April he announced via APA that there had been no intervention by Iran during the time he was Secretary-General and that he had not taken any initiative as Secretary-General of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Let us now look at what the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has to say in the report on this issue. "5. 12. 1989: Interlocutory speech by the Iranian Ambassador to the Secretary-General for Foreign Affairs in the late afternoon." The question has now been raised in the plenary session – I hope I do not get a call for an order, Mr President. –: He won't have lied, will he? It goes on: The planned visit to an Austrian economic delegation is cancelled by the Iranian side during this conversation. – This is a language that the then Minister of Economic Affairs has probably already understood! – Secretary-General Klestill informed Federal Minister Lösnak on the content of this interlocutory speech, which tells him that he has already ordered that the observation of the Iranian Embassy be reduced to a "necessary measure". Director-General Danzinger briefly confirms that instructions have been issued to reduce the security of the embassies. A few days later, Bosorgian was able to escape due to this reduced security. That is a very, very, very essential point! Consider this in the light of the fact that the Federal President of this State was on 21 December. On 5 April, he announced that Iran had not intervened with the Secretary-General and that he had not taken any initiative as Secretary-General, while a report from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs now documented that it was in the key phase on 5 April. 12. gave an intervention by the Iranian ambassador to him. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: The documentation says nothing of an intervention, but only of a visit!]] This report also states that it has been threatened and announced that the economic delegation will be cancelled and that the Austrians will be able to stay at home with their operations, that the same President, the then Secretary-General, informed the Minister of the Interior and responded in the way he replied: There is already a reduction in the observation of the message. [[Calls and calls between the Greens and the ÖVP.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] This is not a small thing, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! That is why I understand more and more why the head of the ÖVP party is becoming more and more a central figure in the current covert, why Dr. Schüssel is becoming more and more a thread leader in this matter. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: This is a fairy tale hour!]] Because he is the only current member of the government who was in the government at the time. Secondly, he is the one who has a firm grip on his group via Khol and can block the investigation here in this House. And that exchange transactions – see Control Bank or Kurden-Morden – are still working, we have been shown in this house for several weeks. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Of course, this vice chancellor wants to protect both Dr. Mock and Dr. Klestil, no question! They leave the fact that false information has been given to Parliament in 17 cases, and the urgent suspicion that the President of the Federal Republic has said the untruth three weeks ago is completely unmoved. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: At least 17 times, at least 17 times in this Parliament have said the untruth!]] [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: The fairy tale hour starts at midnight!]] Finally, I am telling you what you are doing with it, and I hope that you have really read these reports and that you are aware of them. However, I do not have the impression that this is the case. However, if you have read it, you will be very conscious: The representatives of ÖVP and SPÖ, who block and prevent the investigation, are the supporters of the cover-up: And it's just a question of time until you're like "Lucona" and "Noricum" – is it the seventh time or the fifteenth time? - be surrendered. It is only a shame that the credibility of this government and the credibility of that republic are in the meantime causing enormous damage.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e16498	Next speaker is Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e16520	Ladies and gentlemen! I'll make you a suggestion: Ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP, imagine what those people you sent to Parliament say when they hear this discussion and see how you block such an investigation committee! – I can tell you what people will say: You will say: The Reds and the Blacks have dirt on them, for otherwise they would agree that parliamentary research is being carried out on what happened! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: You want a political spectacle!]] No, we don't want a political spectacle, but you have a chance if you really don't have any dirt on it...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e16554	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) That's not how it is!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e16570	Mr President. It will probably be allowed to quote a proverb here with the phrase "have dirt on the stick"!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e16588	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Such sayings violate the dignity of the house, and in order to protect it, the Rules of Procedure are there! I don't know in which circles such sayings are common!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e16603	I am of course also more often in host houses, and there I hear such expressions, Mr President. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You probably already lost contact with the base, otherwise you would probably make other decisions here in Parliament too! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It's all so ridiculous, it's just a joke: They're artificially excited! On the one hand, you, quite vehemently, block from where it is about exercising parliamentary control rights and checking where there really is maladministration. But if, in connection with such things, an expression is needed that is quite common, get on the barricades! That's your kind of political activity, and that's really blamable! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's it!]] Their "arguments" that there is nothing new and so on are ridiculous when you look at this report. I really recommend you look at this report! On the basis of this report, you can see that the Federal Ministry of Justice is trying to galvanize the question of why no arrest warrant has been issued. For example, senior prosecutor Olscher is trying to blame the judge. He says: A warrant is a judgment. – In fact, a criminal procedure has not even been initiated! The examiner does not even have a legal basis for issuing a warrant. However, the court does not have to assess why no arrest warrant is issued. It is rather a question of political responsibility that no application for a warrant has been made. Mr Fuhrmann! On page 47 of the report you can read this! You see in this report that there has been a panic after another. It is therefore necessary to clarify who is responsible for these pans: What place did these pans really happen in? In what instance did these pans come? What has caused these pans, and who is responsible for them? This, however, has, as has been said, not to review the court, but parliamentary bodies. The agreements have also been reached. You should be as interested as we are in what has been discussed between the ministers, why finally and finally the terrorists have been given their hand so that they can escape from Austria, why Austria has made itself a protector of state terrorists. These are really questions that we would have to be interested in by parliamentarians. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Anschober has already found that an investigation committee would have been set up immediately in any other country. In this case, I only give him the right. I cannot imagine that there is such a pitiful discussion in any other democratic country as we do in Austria. It is humiliating and embarrassing how the opposition must succeed so that it can finally exercise its control rights! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I would like to say the following: The opposition does not want to collect populist material, as Mr Zweytick has claimed here. Because in such a delicate matter it is not about populism. We want strict control in this matter of human life and the reputation of Austria. And if you have nothing to hide, you finally agree to the setting up of an investigation committee! In any case, we will not let it down and make this request again and again.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e16678	Mr Hans Helmut Moser came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e16702	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! There have already been many arguments as to why it is necessary to set up a committee of inquiry here in Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen! If you have read this report then They really come to the conclusion that such a committee of inquiry is more important than ever. We mean: It is only right now, because when a report on this is presented to Parliament, it is necessary to highlight the political backgrounds and determine the responsibilities as such. Ladies and gentlemen! We don't want a political spectacle, but we just... [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: No!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] That was a call from you! We only want the reputation of this country to be restored because the country's reputation has been severely damaged by the non-acting of the ministries concerned. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Moser doesn't want a political spectacle, but Heide Schmidt wants one!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We want the rule of law to make a breakthrough, because that is what we owe our country! Mr Löschnak! I am referring to the respective sub-reports which have been presented here. You cut off good or excellent with your ministry. They cannot be predicted in terms of political responsibility. But please compare the reports of the individual ministries! Compare the report of the Ministry of the Interior with that of the Ministry of Justice or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs! Ladies and gentlemen! The report of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is a scandal! This report by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not address the real problems, which were very well mentioned in the report of the Ministry of the Interior and in which the contexts are very well presented and explained. - I'll talk about that then. Ladies and gentlemen! It is about the clarification of the facts and the clarification of political responsibility. It is about clarifying what the ministers responsible have done or have not done. You can't just say: My official, the Secretary-General for Foreign Affairs, will have already been informed about everything, after all, he was the second highest man, that is, the highest man after the Federal Minister, so he will certainly have taken appropriate measures because the Minister cannot wait for everything. – I quote from memory a statement recently made by Minister Mock of the APA. Ladies and gentlemen! In this case, it is really a question of clarifying what has happened in the individual ministries. And it must be said with great regret that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was the political hub of this scandal, and it is precisely responsible for these incidents. That is why we want these backgrounds to be clarified. Ladies and gentlemen! Political responsibility can only be clarified by Parliament. In this context, I would like to ask you: Please inform your colleague Michalek, who himself has stated that the judicial system cannot clarify the political responsibility that this is a matter for Parliament. What the prosecutor's office and independent courts do is the one side. – In this case, however, we are dealing with the political responsibility of the individual ministries, and that is why Parliament is concerned. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on Green MEPs.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I call on you to respect your responsibilities as Members and parliamentarians, particularly your commitment, as laid down in the Constitution, to ensure that we have Parliamentarians in control of execution. This is a matter of execution, which is why control is in our hands, and that is why this parliamentary committee of inquiry is also necessary. Mr Leikam! I don't understand why we have to wait for justice. I can't hear that anymore! Why do you point out "NEWS" and say we're using these arguments? Please read the report! On the basis of your comments here, I assume that you have not yet read this report. For if one had read the report, one would have to conclude that it is necessary to create clarity here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Leikam.]] I don't have much time anymore, I'm just making a few brief remarks, for example, about the fact that after a day the police were already known facts that led to a corresponding arrest warrant being requested. Read You're going through the whole thing! Then you come to the conclusion that we must carry out a review of political responsibility!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e16765	Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e16787	Ladies and gentlemen! I call on you to fulfil your duties as Members and Members of Parliament. Voices Let us ask you to set up a committee of inquiry! For if you reject them, you are doing a bear service to our country and Parliament! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e16817	No one is reported in the word anymore. This is also the end of this debate. – I may ask you to take the seats! We shall come to the vote. We are voting on Mr Schmidt's request to set up a committee of inquiry on the subject which was the subject of this debate. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree with Schmidt's request to set up an investigation committee to give a sign. – The request did not find the majority, it was therefore rejected. Next, we shall proceed to the debate on the request of the honourable Members. Stadler, Dr. Krüger and colleagues on the establishment of an investigative committee pursuant to § 33 para. 1 GOG-NR. The application is submitted in writing, has been received by all members and therefore does not require reading. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e16898	Mr Stadler has the floor for the reasons. His speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e16920	Mr President. High house! Let me begin by saying something general about these investigation committees and the majority groups – or should I say "coalition unit"? . in Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party! As simple as in the previous debate, you can't do it on the question of the President of the Federal Republic of Germany! The Federal President is accused of massive mistakes during his duties as Secretary-General of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs – and you are pretending that all this would not be a matter for the public! Ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party! If you are aware of this, you should not be accompanied by a letter from the 5th century. May 1997 by your chairman, Schüssel, to the members of the Austrian People's Party – "Dear members of the Austrian People's Party!" – the question is raised – I have the opportunity to quote the question 5: "Are you ready to actively support Federal President Dr. Thomas Klestil in a re-election to the Federal President's office next year: yes/no?" Ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party! If you are already internalising, as your Federal President is as a possible candidate, then you can't care what political groups in this House say about reports of serious media about these Federal Presidents in his time as Secretary-General! Especially amusing is Question 7 of this questionnaire, which means: "What topics are you particularly interested in? What would you like to know about?" Then comes another question 8: "Security/Justice" and a question 12: Foreign policy. – Ladies and gentlemen! If you allow, I would like to explicitly check these two questions and supplement them: "Examining committees on Kurden murder and Praschak suicide." [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If these questions are also raised, I would ask you to send me such a questionnaire, and I will send you the answer to these questions by my group. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! They are dealing with the Parliamentary investigative instrument, which is one of the most important in connection with Parliament's control tasks, in a way which is incompatible with parliamentary democracy! And that will have consequences! The minority groups of this House will not be allowed to do so without a comment! For the Austrian public will not tolerate the idea of dealing with the most important parliamentary investigative instrument, the committee of inquiry which you are currently maintaining! And so it will be in the case of the suicide of Director Praschak! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The Austrian public has a right to know what Mr Praschak meant before his dramatic end, when he wrote that Scholten threatened him that there would be "fare." The Austrian public may and must know what was meant by "Zoff". Why was Mr. Praschak a "security risk"? How does a former minister come to say to the director of a bank that assumes billions of liability for the Republic that he has become a "security risk"? What "political card" did Mr. Exminister Scholten say when he threatened Mr. Praschak that if he wasn't fit to play the "political card"? Ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy! Can you tell me, or can you not only me, but Parliament and the Austrian public? Because the Austrian public has a right to know what is meant by it. It has a right to know what is behind the alleged interest-rate agreements, of which Dr Praschak writes very detailedly. What is behind it when he claims that there are interest agreements between the big banks of Austria, at the expense of those small people who represent them? You have obviously forgotten, at the expense of the countless borrowers in Austria and also at the expense of the savers? Ladies and gentlemen! This is due to the burden of those people who have already been taken over by the government in a massive way: by reducing transfers, by the cold progression of wage tax, by removing surcharges for Sunday work and so on. And now you still look at how a director of a renowned bank, who was in question just a few days before his suicide for further positions in the Austrian banking landscape, explains that there are "interest agreements" among the major Austrian banks. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! This is the subject of an investigation committee. This has to be of great interest to the Austrian public, and we MEPs have the duty to take an interest in it and to clarify these things! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Because there are serious claims in space that have far-reaching consequences than the claims made in the direction of the President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy! What does it look like to say that there has been an attempt at tax evasion at the expense of the Austrian taxpayer? Who initiated something here? Who stopped these tax evasion attempts at the last moment? And what were the consequences for the person concerned? – As has been shown, the consequences are quite brutal and merciless and go until physical destruction! Ladies and gentlemen! What were the links with hotel financing in the east of our continent, which were secured through the control bank? Is there any indication, for example, that the reliability of Dr Praschak for the Social Democrats was no longer guaranteed, and he therefore became a security risk for one of the most prominent social democrats, namely for the now overpowered - even the SPÖ to be powerful! – Bank director Randa has become, ladies and gentlemen? Why has Mr Praschak become a security risk for Mr Randa? Is there a link between the hotel projects financed by Bank Austria and other financing carried out in the East and Praschak's suicide? Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would be particularly interested – I say that also in the direction of social democracy – in what circumstances would further clarify in connection with the crime scene. Where's the gun that Dr. Praschak shot at? Who owns this gun? Dr. Praschak didn't belong to her! Dr. Praschak loathed weapons! He didn't want any weapons. Is it true that a high-ranking employee representative and social Democrat were the owners of the weapon with which Mr Praschak shot himself? Is it really true that this social democrat has appeared at the crime scene before the police arrived there, ladies and gentlemen? These questions are raised by the Austrian public, and these are the circumstances in which they are informed, and this task is to be carried out by a parliamentary committee of inquiry. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Faith You're telling me: They will have to explain these things, probably much faster than the Kurd murders, which are already very, very far behind and therefore the media, the general public of the Austrian population no longer move as much as the suicide of Praschak! [[Abg. Parnigoni: Certainly not!]] In this case, the taxpayer finally comes into the handcush! It was claimed that there were interest-rate agreements and that an attempt was made to withdraw taxes on behalf of the Austrian taxpayer. In addition, obviously a weapon in the game, which belonged to a high-ranking official of your party, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! You'll have to explain that! It is also a prominent socialist who had to make room for a socialist minister who, admittedly, became a socialist only when he became a minister. This is the new "genosity"! [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] Only when he was a minister did he feel like joining the SPÖ. – But that’s a problem with the SPÖ! They will have to explain these things. You won't be able to go there! Gauge me! In the case of Praschak, the last word is with certainty, with absolute certainty, not yet spoken!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e16987	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Hazelsteiner. His speaking time, like everyone else from now on, is 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e17009	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I know the Oesterreichische Control Bank, its tasks and working methods for many years, and I do not think that a committee of inquiry would be particularly active there. The interest-rate agreements were already more or less officially known, so to speak, they were printed in the newspapers. This was called "regulatory measures" and was nothing but a cartel. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: As in the construction industry!]] If we did this in the construction industry, that would be a criminal offence. You won't know that, but I do. For the banks this was allowed and, as I said, "regulatory measures". I believe that we will not be able to get new insights through a committee of inquiry. If we Liberals nevertheless agree to this request, then because it seems important to us, on the occasion of this tragic death of a leading official, who has acted in this grey area between the state and the economy, who has been ordered in the same way as we have already discussed on other occasions, to take a critically changeable part between state responsibility and economic power, and to examine whether politics has actually exercised power and pressure, or whether the restraint claimed by the Federal Chancellor, we do not have, and I do not, and I will not, correspond to the facts. In my view, with such a committee of inquiry, we could at least make it clear that there has not been an unloving influence in this area and in the recent past. It would therefore be more credible for the future and more credible if the requirements of the Federal Chancellor with its five new proposals for the occupation of leading economic positions had been clarified by a committee of inquiry. If that doesn't happen, always a narrow side taste, a smell will remain, and you could always say: [[Abg. May. Stadler: Schaler Betaste!]] Well, it's not really clear! I think we could feel obliged to take account of the legacy of Mr Praschak – you too, Mr President. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Schwimmer: We could also make an investigation committee via Goldeck!]] Yes, if you want one!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e17073	The next speaker was Mr Krüger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e17094	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I have just made sure, before I went to the floor here, that it is actually true that no representative of the government parties speaks on this request for the establishment of an investigation committee. That's an absolute novum! So far, it has been true that in a debate on the establishment of an investigation committee by the government parties, at least an attempt was made to explain a negative attitude. [[Intervocations at SPÖ and the ÖVP.]] Now don't even make this attempt again! Or is your silence – your debated silence, I would like to say here – to be seen as an approval of the accusations raised against you by the opposition? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I agree with you that if you say that suicide is being committed for reasons in the private sector, it must not be used politically – no question at all. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] In the present case – and you know that very well – it is like the one who has been separated from life by the death of free will that has documented enough to be a suicide for political reasons! As we know, Gerhard Praschak has left the opposition, especially the FPÖ, and also the media a legacy, since he – becoming a puppet – naturally no longer had any confidence in the party that once promoted him. Ladies and gentlemen! That's exactly why we don't loosen up in the Praschak affair. It is indeed as recently as a commentator, though in a different sense, said he sees a turn of time, an Austria in front of the tragic free death of Gerhard Praschak and an Austria after the free death of Gerhard Praschak. To investigate is – it has already been said – the ordering process, the political pressure that has been exerted and which a criminal court cannot clarify. This has already been perfectly argued elsewhere. To investigate politically is something other than to investigate criminal law. If the order operations in the national banks actually run as ex-minister Scholten said, when he said that in London, in New York, in other banking places in this world, the "performance" is decisive, in this country it is about political influence, and in extreme cases the "political card" is played, then there is "Zoff". Ladies and gentlemen! We know from Mr Praschak's personal records that this is not a harsh conspiracy theory, but that it is a personal experience of a person who has no longer found a way out. Every suicide researcher will confirm to you that what someone who commits suicide leaves behind in his last will corresponds to his or her feelings, and such a feeling can only exist if this pressure has actually been exerted. We have already said – and had to take political note of it – that under the silk glove of Schöngeist Scholten there is an iron fist hidden. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's it!]] If schools in today's "NEWS" claim that no mandate is possible and he should "don't let the bank hang", that's really the summit! Any lawyer, who is only reasonably gifted, will confirm that a responsible Supervisory Board would, of course, agree to a unanimous immediate resolution of the service relationship in the interest of the Bank in order to take it out of the political debate.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e17160	I would ask for the final sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e17175	I come to the conclusion. Many in this Republic believe that the SPÖ is responsible for a policy that is about corpses in the literal sense of the word. [[Interlocutors Parnigoni and Dr. Cap.]] At least try to relativize this suspicion by setting up an investigation committee!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e17211	No further words are available. [[Contradiction of the Abg. Dr. Petrovic.]] Excuse me, I was distracted with problems, but we will solve them immediately. - Please, Mrs. Dr. Petrovic.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e17239	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The second request concerning the establishment of a committee of inquiry is now being negotiated, and the chronology of events has led to a very strange junkim. Some SPÖ mandates were already very close to agreeing with an investigation committee on political responsibility for the Kurds. Then the suicide of Dr. Praschak happened. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] You can call in this house what you want: That's how the whole public sees it. [[Abg. Koppler: Stop with your public!]] It sees all the serious media in this country like that! Faith Do you really think you can take away a certainty by a hundred times that you stress that it is not, so to speak? I tell you – and I will go further into this –: The only way out of this strange junkim – as your coalition partner now alerts you to the fact that, if you were to escape the Committee on Kurdish Murder, which is particularly concerned with the political responsibility of the Foreign Ministry with the President-in-Office of the Federal Republic of Klestil, when you came back to the Banking Investigation Committee, you would be able to agree at least to this investigation committee. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's the way it is!]] I believe that these matters are very different. I will vote in favour of this request for the establishment of a committee of inquiry, and I think that, in particular, the Socialist Group would be well advised to do the same. In other ways, you will not get out of this junkim, which will ultimately have a major impact on the social-democratic government group. I assume that there is a lot of trouble in the area of control bank and banking equipment. The post-war system has been rewritten with the overpowering influence of the social partners, who agree with each operation of the control bank whether a waffle machine or a turnkey power plant is being exported. From the President's Conference to the Industrial Union to the Trade Unions: Everyone agrees. This has not lost anything in a modern banking system! Parliament is getting lavish information, which is not accurate. Human rights do not play a role in these transactions. I find all of this politically bad and urgently in need of reform. But I assume that while the enforcement bodies in this area have to comply with bad laws, they do. In my opinion, there is a political need for better laws here, but there is no political responsibility beyond the law, even because of my personal perceptions in this area. That is why this can and should be examined. In addition, the mailer and the fact that a person is ultimately broken in a system in which he has strongly mixed. But if what German Chancellor climate has said in recent days is serious, then we should do this investigation. Let us note that the laws need to be reformed. Let us reform them and create a modern and party-politically independent banking system for Austria! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. May. Stadler.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group! If you do not agree with this committee proposal, you will, without really worrying about it, need a high level of argumentation, your basis for explaining your sections, why you want to support a Kletil presidency candidate in view of these facts.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e17322	Please pay attention to the speaking time!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e17338	If you do not agree to this request, you will ultimately have much greater difficulties and more responsibilities – as different as the materials are.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e17368	There is no one to speak for now. The debate is therefore closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request made by Mr Magn. Stadler on the establishment of the Committee of Inquiry requested by him. I ask those ladies and gentlemen of the House who agree with Stadler's request to set up an investigation committee to give a sign on this point. – This is the minority, the request is rejected. [[Abg. Parnigoni: The Haider is not here either!]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_1997-05-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00074_d7e17407	I declare that in today's sitting, the self-employed were brought in applications 454/A to 460/A. Question No 2396/J to 2428/J as well as a request to the President of the National Council have also been received. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for tomorrow, 15. May 1997, 9 a.m. No objections to this agenda are obviously raised. The agenda has been distributed in writing in the hall. The session will begin with a Question Time. The sitting is closed.
