ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e3033	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to welcome you. It was just 14 p.m., and I have to open the meeting after the Rules of Procedure at the time for which it was convened. So I'll open the 55. A meeting of the National Council, convened by a fifth of the Members on the basis of a business order request. The official protocols of the 52. Meeting of 12 and 13. ==References====External links== Meeting of 13. They have remained in the Parliament's management and without opposition and are therefore considered approved. For today's session day as prevented, MEPs are reported Dr. Preisinger, Mag. Peter, Dr. Van der Bellen and Mag. Barmüller. I would ask you to take note of this. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e3070	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e3239	I declare that the Federal Chancellor has informed me of his right under § 19 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure would like to make use of a statement relating to the sale of the Federal Shareholders' Rights to the Creditanstalt-Bankverein. Mr Schüssel also informed me that he also intends to make a statement on the subject of privatisation, capital market reform and the sale of the CA shares. Amendment to the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e3265	The Federal Minister for Economic Affairs and the Federal Minister for Finance have therefore asked me to consider the intention expressed by them, within the meaning of the same paragraph of the Rules of Procedure, to make oral statements at this meeting of the National Council in connection with the sale of shares rights in CA as irresistible. All the members of the National Council have joined a Aviso in this regard. In accordance with Article 19 of the Rules of Procedure, as the date for the presentation of the declarations now proposed, I declare that they are delivered immediately, in place of the statements originally made by the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs and the Federal Minister for Finance. Are there any objections by this time? - That's not the case. Then we'll do that. Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e3293	I would also like to point out that Members Dr. Lukesch and Comrades have called for urgent debate on the written question put before the agenda for today's sitting, Mr Dr. Lukesch and Mr Comrades to the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs concerning the macroeconomic consequences of the acquisition by the Bank of Austria of the shares of CAs. I have accepted this request because it is properly signed, and I note the beginning of the urgent debate on this question within the meaning of the Rules of Procedure at 5 p.m. The Commission's proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the Question No 1439/AB
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e3323	In addition, before entering the agenda, I would like to say that, in accordance with § 92 of the Rules of Procedure, I have a brief debate on the reply to Question 1439/J by Mr Anschober and Mr Comrades concerning the Semmering Base Tunnel, and the current developments of the Federal Minister for Science, Transport and Art. As the negotiations on a urgent question have just been decided for today's sitting, the brief debate on this written reply will take place after the end of the debate on the urgent question. Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e3347	Finally, before entering the agenda, I would like to say that Mr Böhacker has asked the Financial Committee to report on the motion for a resolution 45/A (E) by Mr Böhacker and Mr Comrades on the indirect promotion of risk capital for a period of time up to 21. ==References====External links== The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Böhacker will be put to the vote in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure after the end of the negotiations of this plenary session. Declarations by the Federal Chancellor and the Vice-Cancellor
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e3374	We can now go into the agenda. Declaration by the Federal Chancellor in connection with the sale of the Federal Shareholders' Rights to the Creditanstalt-Bankverein
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e3395	For the sake of the previous communications, I should first like to give the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany the floor for a declaration, with the prospect that the statements of the two members of the government may remain within 20 minutes, if possible. The Federal Chancellor has the floor. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e3419	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! With your approval, I report on the largest single business transaction in Austrian economic history. The issue of the shares of the credit institution owned by the Republic was often referred to in comments as "endless history". In fact, it was a long time. However, one will have to admit that only in recent weeks have offers been identified that were attractive from their economic plausibility and price. From this point of view, the decision has now been taken in a short time. Apart from this transaction, the Federal Government has in the first year of work of the XX. In implementing its work programme, the legislative period will take important steps and take significant measures to ensure that the advantage that Austria has in many areas vis-à-vis other countries is not only safeguarded but even expanded. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In today's public debate, positions are often expressed that contradict each other or also ignore objective factors. For example, integration, internationalization, globalisation in all its mouths are to show that one is aware of change. One speaks of necessary structural changes and reorganisations – and is right with that. Nevertheless, many are expected to remain the same in all the changes: for example, the labour market, tourism, the current account, or transport, or, – One could extend this list. We now live in a global dynamic and have to make use of it. The answer is offensive policy. The common word of the marginal role, the marginality of politics under international circumstances and conditions must not be accepted. The admiring admiration for others can also be relativized. This applies to some of our EU partners, which is true in some respects for our neighbouring country Switzerland and also for the legendary South-East Asian "tiger" where the boom now also shows losers. But this is not an insolence or the questioning of the legitimate right to criticism, but a plea not to close our eyes even before the reality that is positive for us. High house! When selling the CA shares, all three objectives formulated by the legislator were best possible and fully met. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] First objective: The federal shares in the credit institution were sold in the best possible way, to the most bidder. The sales proceeds that could be achieved for the Federal Budget amount to 17,161 billion schilling. This amount is an extraordinarily more encouraging and higher one for the Federal budget than it would have been a few weeks ago for benevolent observers. Any decision other than the one in favour of the most bidder would not only have violated the Privatisation Act and violated the EU Directives on hidden aid, but also meant a ban on budget revenue at billions, a ban on billions of revenue that would ultimately have to be compensated either with higher taxes or with lower government expenditure. My attitude on this was always clear and clear: Such a renunciation is not acceptable from a budgetary point of view. In principle, such abandonment is not reasonable to citizens – even in times of the savings package. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] With this principle, the Federal Government has also fulfilled a moral obligation. Second and third objectives: Maintain Austrian interests and improve the banking structure. A clear Austrian majority in a European banking group was assured by the sale of the federal shares in the credit institution to Bank Austria, and I also see this as a contribution to the Austrian Federal Government's Austrian strategy. The concept of Bank Austria has high synergies. It therefore contributes to improving the structure of the Austrian banking industry and allows the link between Bank Austria and Credit Institution in the European Union to move to the Top 30 Group. This banking link can provide the Austrian economy across Europe and internationally with all the financial services that export-oriented companies need. In addition, the combination of credit institution and bank Austria offers an opportunity to strengthen the positioning of the Austrian financial market not only in Central Europe and Eastern Europe, but also in other parts of the world. The renowned investment house J. P. Morgan in London ranks the bank-austria-offert in one place. The Austrian Federal Government has therefore opted for the best bidder and, at the same time, for the best bidder, who will also be able to maintain the promised high number of highly qualified workers and allow personnel reductions to take place only through the natural finish. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Another final word about accompanying reforms of the Stock Exchange Square in Vienna. The two government parties agreed on a number of anti-competitive measures. It is planned that the share of Bank Austria and Creditanstalt in the Austrian Control Bank and in Austrian Investment Credit AG will be reduced to less than 50 percent. Furthermore, the share management of Central Savings Banks is intended to relinquish its majority share of GiroCredit AG. It has also been agreed that Bank Austria will not participate in the privatisation of the Austrian postal savings bank. With the increased participation of investors and issuers in the newly-structured Vienna Stock Exchange in the form of a stock company for which the Federal Minister of Finance has already presented a concept some time ago, the share market also poses a risk of a single player's dominance. The agreed employee participation in the credit institution to the extent of 500 million Schilling as well as the efforts to transfer the federal share of Bank Austria to private as widely as possible will contribute to strengthening the Austrian capital market. This can also be expected from the adoption of a new takeover right to improve the situation of small shareholders. High house! More extensive reforms of the Austrian financial centre were made by Federal Minister Mag. Climate solidly prepared in good time. The two government parties agreed to propose these reforms to the House for parliamentary treatment before the summer of this year. The Federal Government's work programme for this legislative period is ambitious. With the implementation in the interest of our country, we are in good position in the international comparison. I would ask the ladies and gentlemen of the House to support the Federal Government in these measures and thank you for your attention. [[Long-lasting applause at SPÖ.]] [[14:16]] Declaration by the Vice-Chancellor on privatization, capital market reform and the sale of CA shares
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e3538	I now give the floor to Mr Vice-Chanceller, Dr. Schüssel, to give his statement. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e3559	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! This special meeting was convened at the request of the Austrian People's Party, and I believe that this is also the appropriate moment to inform the House, all political groups and, by means of television coverage, the Austrian public about our privatisation programme immediately after the discussion at government level in the Coalition Committee. I share the view of my previous speaker that we are economically interconnected with the fact that we are facing increasingly intense competition which we simply cannot handle. All the more so, we must try to ensure and strengthen Austria's economic location optimally. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We must, therefore, set the framework in such a way that the market economy is dynamic, prosperity and employment are created for as many as possible, but also social compensation for the weaker and sustainable use of financial resources and the environment. This is our common line, but this policy covers several sub-areas which are connected and which need to be seen as a whole. This includes the basis of sound state finances. It is very gratifying to hear just these days that instead of a threatening budget deficit of 150 billion schilling, as would have been the case at the beginning of this year, the net deficit could be reduced below 90 billion schilling. Only: Who owes this to? – a joint effort, imposed by extensive and persistent honesty – also towards the Austrian public. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Secondly, Austria's participation in economic and monetary union, and hence in the euro from the outset, is part of this overall strategy to strengthen our economic location. Furthermore, the withdrawal of the state and the public sector – including the communities – from the economy, from the banks – that is, real privatisations – includes strengthening the Austrian financial centre, Vienna – in particular venture capital, stock exchange – to make a more flexible working world – here there are still reforms – and an active administrative management that ensures that the public sector is as rational as today in the private sector, in the private economy. The importance of this overall concept – if a stone is broken out, the overall concept is at risk – shows international examples as well as our own bitter experiences. In Austria, for example, we have experienced considerable and negative experiences with state mismanagement in the 1980s. The taxpayer becomes far into the 21st century. Many billions of schilling still have to pay for believing, all that is large, is automatically already and per se good. This error should be avoided. Secondly, we also have international examples. I can only refer to the state-owned Crédit Lyonnais, a French large bank, which has been expanding for so long until it has been the number one in the world and has accumulated a total of 20 billion French francs in losses covered by sales, dramatic cuts and billions of rehabilitation aid. With the entry of the People's Party into the government, the Austrian nationalization concept has been changed, and together with our coalition partner, we have implemented a successful privatisation strategy. It is therefore necessary to interpret the 1991 authorisation law, i.e. from an earlier legislative period, in connection with the existing Coalition Agreement, in which the "best possible sale" is mentioned. That this cannot be the price alone is clear, otherwise you should have written "most bidder" or "high offer". Our preference – I say this quite openly here, even after there is an agreement that is certainly not easy to reach – was actually from the beginning a broad public dispersal, a large public society credit institution banking association, which is listed on the stock exchange, but also a strategic core area of institutional investors. However, these attempts to put an audience on its feet have repeatedly been rejected by former finance ministers, and one thing I say quite openly today: If one had already begun in 1991 or 1990 with this attempt, made serious, then it would have been possible – in several stages – to achieve this concept for a long time to date and, by means of interest-rate gains, probably to recover more for the budget and hence for taxpayers than today, the Bank Austria's offer, which is absolutely in order from the price. This has not happened – I admit it – because it was not wanted by previous finance ministers. We were constantly concerned about the current strategy to sell the CA to the BA. However, we from the EIA were the only ones who had these concerns; four political groups took a different view. However, it should also be mentioned in an open and objective discussion, in which these concerns were raised. Many commentators now write about it again and again and point out that there could be something, and thus cover a lot of what we have tried to publicise in argumentative terms. The first concerns were competition and regulatory. When Creditanstalt and Bank Austria get together now, it is true that – the German Chancellor already said it – a European giant emerges from the top 30 with its balance sheet and all that belongs to it. But one must also see that then this new large bank is de facto three times, even four times as big as the subsequent third giant. This can be quite a problem because of the overpowering of a player in the economic and capital markets, especially since it is known that investment banks are also affected, of course, by the competition of the conditions and that there is also an industrial ownership of 500 companies with approximately 50,000 employees and a balance sheet of around 100 billion schilling. No one says that such concerns can easily be overcome. It was therefore only material concerns that we have raised in this context. [[Intercession with the liberals.]] The second argument was economic concerns. Is it really so easy for Bank Austria to put 17 billion schilling out of its own assets? This means – as pleasant as it is for the budget – that you get 17 billion schilling at a time – that these 17 billion shillings are missing in the substance of this banking giant. Can you answer that? Could this not create a risk situation that may also affect the workplace situation, perhaps even – as was written in some newspapers; and I think these are honest fears – could lead to the loss of 3,000 to 4,000 jobs? This concern for jobs is not easy to wipe out from the table, this concern – just as in the case of Semperit; at that time it may have been shared by other political groups – we mean seriously. It was certainly at the heart of our economic policy considerations. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Thirdly, concerns are expressed here in terms of budgetary and liability policy. We have also considered the legal situation very carefully. Already, the taxpayer had to get out of the budget for large loans from banks in need. One of these cases was the reorganisation of the Landesbank, which had become necessary in the early 1980s. In 1991 it was then converted, and de facto it is now still paid in the form of a loan from the federal government with not quite 200 million per year and a final payment; in total with 1.8 billion schilling. We would have liked to see the improvement obligation contained in the original Treaty applied now. But we were taught that this was not legal. I also say the following: It was very nice to note that this process of former finance ministers did not mean that without an additional decision by the Council of Ministers, without Parliament's referral to this certificate of improvement, the Council of Ministers actually did not take up a further burden on the budgets of almost 2 billion schilling by 2001. I therefore believe that, above all, the risk of liability must be seen. Of course, this liability of a municipal savings bank comes from a completely different time. At that time, a liability was assumed for certain core areas in the municipal business in order to achieve and achieve more favourable conditions. But is this still acceptable for a large bank of Europeans today? Should it not be considered within the framework of an amendment to the Savings Act on a reform in the sense of non-liability or a reasonable liability premium? These were our concerns: structural policy, economic and employment policy, budget and liability policy. We have not made it easy to raise these concerns. I know that some have completely unilaterally claimed that this is only a matter of party policy. – I explain very clearly here: I do not want a party policy in the economy, even in the banking world! [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals and the Greens.]] I want to keep the policy out of the banking world, out of the economy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It may be that we are the only ones who have such concerns. This must not be a disadvantage in democracy. Weigh and appreciate, especially in the Austrian public, whether the concerns were raised rightly or not. We were alone in this respect. Social democrats, liberals, Greens and Liberals were exclusively for sale to Bank Austria, and as democrats, I say quite openly, we must take note of and respect the decision of the Minister of Finance and also this majority. This was not easy for us, but we were able to reach an agreement with the coalition partner in hours of negotiations, an agreement that goes towards fundamental reforms, which were also briefly described by the Federal Chancellor: Depolitikisation in the banking world, especially at Bank Austria, is taken seriously. Today, the state or city influence will fall to less than 20 percent within a few years. Especially in this year, it will be significantly reduced by the exchange of shares of the credit institution shareholders, by capital increases and by the sale of the 19 percent federal shares. For us, however, it was crucial that the municipality of Vienna and the AVZ – which is interconnected – now undertake to hand over their shares to a non-wisdom, independent trustee, and thus make it serious with the withdrawal of the policy from the banking world. We insisted that the necessary decisions of the AVZ fall within four weeks, otherwise the total sale would have to be reversed. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Yes, how?]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] With the agreement of the AVZ, with the agreement of Bank Austria, which has signed this agreement. I therefore believe that this depoliticization, that the withdrawal of politics from the Bank of Austria – not to mention that 56 percent of GiroCredit shares are also affected by what Bank Austria now has to offer in its entirety – is a very important argument. Further: The independence of the credit institution shall be maintained for at least the next five years. It has been agreed that no sale, no filleting of the credit institution takes place in order to obtain the purchase price. In particular, there was a guarantee that they would not be terminated because the purchase price had to be earned. In addition to the natural outcome, they have the safety of their employment, and I think that is crucial. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In addition, there will be a comprehensive reform of the Vienna Stock Exchange, further provisions on the protection of small shareholders, cash withdrawals for small shareholders, a new privatisation law that excludes exclusive entrances and includes the whole of the Federal Government, and Parliament is also subject to retroactive accountability; a liability fee for the protection of taxpayers is also agreed. In addition, a total of 3 billion Schillings are available for technology and research, which – I am convinced – will benefit from strengthening Austria's economic location. We invite all the political groups in this House to cooperate in the implementation of these government proposals. Much is covered by the proposals you have made in recent weeks and months. The decision has fallen, and I say openly, it is good that it has fallen, because this troubling, laborious story has not been tolerable in recent years and has not done well to all those involved – the banking institutions, the customers, the employees. But I also say quite openly: Now it will be up to the new owners to prove that first of all this new stock exchange and banking giant actually has a size that leads to success, and not a size that makes the risk striking. We will do everything we can to ensure that this hope that it will be a success story is actually fulfilled, especially in the run-up to economic and monetary union. Secondly, it is up to the new owners to prove that they are not only looking at the mere shareholder value, but that they think that they are dealing with this acquisition with the necessary sensitivity and responsibility towards the customers and the staff of the credit institution. It's clear: In the banking world – including at CA and Bank Austria – the most important and valuable capital is not the money, not the property, not the investments, but the people who work there, the customers who carry their good money there or take credit from there. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Thirdly, it will be up to the new owners to prove that political influence is not taking place. I would also like to say quite openly: It will depend very much on whether an independent, non-profit-making trustee is actually used, whether the municipality of Vienna, the AVZ do not have any influence. You'll see that very soon. The second and third levels of management will be followed by a sample of nails in relation to the withdrawal of political influence. My group – I say this openly – will be vigilant. [[Call to the liberals: He who believes will be blessed!]] We will be constructive and vigilant this way of the new large bank CA and Bank Austria into the 21st century. ==References== This is perhaps the end of a strenuous privatisation history, but it should also be the beginning of a new economic understanding that our country really succeeds in the 21st century. ==References==
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e3674	I should also like to thank Dr. Schüssel for his statement. Following these two statements, a debate will take place in the sense of a request made to me by five Members of the House. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e3698	The Presidential Conference reached the following consensus on the duration of this debate: A block speaking time of three hours has been agreed, with the following speaking times: SPÖ 45 minutes, ÖVP 42 minutes, Free 39 minutes, Liberal Forum and Greens each 27 minutes. The plenary session is about to be held. Are there any objections to this proposal? - That's not the case. That is why we have unanimously defined this distribution of speaking times. We are now beginning the debate, and I am obliged to draw attention again to the just-decided speaking times. First, Mr. Dr. Haider. I have been called a voluntary speaking time of 18 minutes. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e3732	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! In principle, the liberals regard cooperation and the merger of two major public banks in Austria as something meaningful, but at the same time have made it clear that this has to be done under certain framework conditions. Thus, this special meeting of the Austrian Parliament could have become a stark hour, because the intention was to use a privatisation initiative to use the interaction of two large banks under public influence as a real privatisation, and thus also a new building up of the Austrian capital market, which is talking about very much, but which is not available today, since it would be necessary for the small and medium-sized economy in particular. Furthermore, there would have been an opportunity for many small shareholders and securities owners to remove discrimination through existing arrangements. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is above all a question of bringing about a real depoliticization as the last step, and of bringing down the concept of power of the red and black division of power to the banking sector, which has been maintained since 1945. That was our consideration. [[New condolences with the liberals.]] As has been said, this could have become an hour of economic renewal in Austria. But the Austrian People's Party has considered it differently: It has made the first day statutes in the major coalition divorce process and has publicly lived and presented the reconciliation attempt today. – Of course: The costs are paid by the taxpayer and not by the two parties. However, I believe that the distrust between the two will remain, because all that has been said shows that there is a lot of sand in the gear between these coalition parties. In particular, the public statements will give rise to further distrust. I am thinking, for example, of the fact that Klubobmann Khol of the ÖVP has said that the coalition partner will be very maliciously monitored. And Kostelka returned that the ÖVP was just a lavish political character. It must stop its escapades, and he hopes that the ÖVP has finally learned the lesson that has now been given to it. This is not exactly a climate of trust that exists between the two coalition parties, and I believe that Busek was rarely right, but if he writes today in a newspaper comment, that is the "beginning from the end of this great coalition", he will not be so wrong. For a government, ladies and gentlemen, which is paralyzed for weeks only because a bank is too privatised, is to be sold, and which forgets that we are in a situation where the unemployment in which inflation is increasing is rising, that we have a high point in company claims, a sale of the domestic economy as never before – such a government is really wrong! Such a government cannot really be equipped with trust! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] With us liberals, the Austrian People's Party wanted to carry out a privatisation initiative here and today in Parliament. That would have been something else, of course! You would have needed courage for real reforms, ladies and gentlemen. You would have needed the will to depoliticize, and above all you would have needed the strength to tell your coalition partner: The red claim of power you raise will not be realized as you have imagined! But you didn't have this power – and that's a little problem with the ÖVP. You have already started such initiatives several times, for example before the last National Council election: The great promise was made that there would be a change of direction – and then soon the socialists would fall back into the arms and continue the great coalition. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: This is democracy!]] Where has socialism and a socialist government, Mr. Collegue, remained the change of direction in this country?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Where's the promised change of course? Where has the change of direction been in Vienna, where, for the first time after 90 years, social democracy loses the absolute majority – and the ÖVP has nothing better to do than now to strengthen a red mayor in Vienna with the few ÖVP people who are still left? That, ladies and gentlemen, is really not what your clients expect from you. The whole talk of the war, which you heard before this bank decision, is of no use at all. Mr Schüssel said he was ready for one-sided disarmament. Please, what came out was not one-sided disarmament, but the naked capitulation of the ÖVP, which has given away all that it has done! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You have helped to ensure that what would have been possible with us does not happen, namely a real privatisation, but on the other hand that what you wanted to prevent, namely a socialist power in the banking and credit sectors, will actually be possible now. Ladies and gentlemen! The SPÖ took good care of it. She has provided for the next time, Mr Kukacka. Once it is no longer in the government, it has at least a dominant supremacy in the banking and credit sectors, which can no longer be lifted by democratic decisions. A bit of this has to do with the fact that you yourself, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, are deeply ensnared in it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Maitz.]] You can't unravel yourself from this red-black power cartel. The SPÖ accuses you of the AVZ in Vienna, which, as it were, brings the municipality of Vienna and thus socialist politics into Bank Austria. Now I ask you: Is it much different at the First Austrian Saving Cass? The vice chancellor stands up here and says: Believe me, I am in favour of a complete withdrawal of politics from the Austrian banks! And then I read the 1995 Annual Report of the First Austrian Saving Cass. Who is sitting in the Austrian Sparkassenrat, the counterpart to the AVZ in Vienna, so to the red Bank Austria? – There is no less than the one who has now promised depoliticization: Mr Vice-Kanzler Federal Minister Dr. Wolfgang Schüssel is a member of the Sparkassenrat, ladies and gentlemen. [[Ironic cheerfulness and hearing!-Hear!-Call with the liberals.]] That's depoliticization? [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: More private, less state!]] Now I'm asking You really are: What worlds lie between your speeches and your actions? That's why you lose confidence in the population: because you're not willing to step out of this red-black proportional and power cartel! That's why you also have to close such a pact. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That is why you have to make a urgent request from the ÖVP to your own Minister of Economic Affairs, such as CA privatisation and CA sales. The Minister for Economic Affairs has been together with the High Lords of the Federal Government of ÖVP and SPÖ for eleven hours, we know that. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer.]] You are making a urgent request today, although Mr Khol said yesterday that the sitting should be stopped better because there is nothing urgent to deal with. Today it is urgent again, and you ask: What about privatization? – So nobody really knows! In addition, the question is so badly prepared that the questions to the wrong ministers have been raised and half of the questions have to be resolved. So one sees that these are just horrors, how they can no longer be annoyed. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! What you're doing here is really not up to date. People expect a real liberation of the economy from politics in our country, a real retreat. But how credible it is when the Austrian People's Party says three weeks earlier: We want to introduce the popular stock, which is the basis of the privatization of the credit institution!, and suddenly one is away from the bourgeois popular stock and ends up in the remote socialism and does all that the SPÖ has done? That's not very credible! I also have to say that the Social Democrats should not be too proud of the purchase price that has reached the climate. Let us not forget that over the last few years the taxpayers have at least done 8 billion schilling to the credit institution in order to ward off pleas! Let us not forget that the taxpayer to the Landesbank, which is part of Bank Austria, has made 4 billion schilling grants to ward off a pleite! Let us not forget that in recent years, due to the privatisation dilemma, the CA has had to resolve around 30 billion shillings of deposits, that is, destroyed assets because of the diletanetism! Finally, let us not forget that Bank Austria has also lost 25 billion schillings in this direction! These are orders of scale which make it clear that we do not need the entire package of savings if the policy was finally out of the economy if it were to be properly managed if income in the balance sheets were to be reported and not debt to be covered by the taxpayer. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The market, ladies and gentlemen, is no longer going through all of this. The market will respond; you will also see this if this transition is not properly handled. The market has already given the Bank Austria a fingermark in February 1996 when it wanted to place shares in America. This project had to be terminated because the analysts have, of course, seen that the basis of this company is not the best. It was too high a price, and it was therefore necessary to terminate this project. We are under international control in the field of money and credit. There you can no longer perform such red-black games as you want, because this would prepare the next pleite. Don't forget, however, that the purchase of the GiroCredit by around 8 billion Schilling has also resulted in the AVZ having a huge stock of debt today, which may once burden the municipality of Vienna if the liability is hit. The market no longer wants to do this because the market does not have a party policy. Therefore, it would have been appropriate to take a real privatisation step, as we have prepared it. We liberals have said: Yes, carry out this merger of banks, but privatized! What you presented after eleven hours of negotiations really looked good. You said: We have agreed to privatization, the withdrawal of the state. We have agreed to a change of the Savings Act – and much more. What happened? Today, a poor motion for a resolution, which reads as follows: "The Federal Government is asked to submit drafts in good time to the National Council in those areas where legislative measures are necessary." Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Koller places a top palm of about one metre, which is decorated with a black clasp, between the government bank and the speaker's seat.]] [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] This kind of problem solution will not work. I therefore believe that what has been achieved is simply wrong. [[The speaker puts a sheet of paper in the green plant.]] [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! You say you privatize at the AVZ. What's the result? – The result is that you have agreed to a seven-year transitional period until the actual withdrawal to 20 percent. With us 18 months were planned to bring about a privatisation of the AVZ. Ladies and gentlemen! In reality, the EIA has agreed that instead of an 18-month privatisation period, there will be an extension of the nationalization in the banking sector by seven years. That's the reality you're facing! [[A servant of the house removes the flower pot.]] Or on the subject of "workplace guarantee": Who today can claim, as a politician of a stock company, that they give a job guarantee – and even to what extent we know that 1 000 cancellations have already been signed at the credit institution? Who can really do that? They tell people something that is absolutely wrong! They agree on something that is not feasible. I am also a burned child, because there are almost 2,000 people who have already learned about the "belief" of Mr Klima, who, as head of staff and finance there, has killed almost 2,000 people because the company was badly managed. And there is experience in the post that, although Mr Klima said, nothing will happen, we have everything under control, but by 1998, 8 000 people will have to be destroyed. How credible are there the job guarantees given by the Socialists in the Federal Government? – And you of the ÖVP believe this, just because you have been looking for a run-out from the coalition crisis, although in this coalition they are treated badly for years and cannot enforce anything! Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! About It really shakes all over Austria's head, how you can only do it like that! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Maitz.]] In my opinion, the worst thing is point 17 of your agreement. If the agreement with the Socialists does not work, then there is a return settlement! Please, what are you thinking of in this country's economies? – Is it for example that a few politicians sit down and issue the command that a private-law contract concerning the transfer of ownership of shares to Bank Austria to acquire the credit institution will be reversed at the touch of the politicians? In this billion-dollar transfer, which is so proud of the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, take the view of the claims for damages that will be made by those contractual partners who are forced to deal with it! Or do you perhaps want to adopt a law of expropriation in the constitutional order so that it is possible? A People's Party who said: We are an economic party, but we really must be ashamed of what she has been able to do here, namely to provide for a reprocessing of the law, down to the grave. That is exactly what the market economy is not going to do at all! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We need to see the dimensions of what you have agreed. Dr. Vrannitzky said today: Great! The largest transaction carried out in the history of the Second Republic. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That was the "consumer"!]] The biggest transaction was the "consumer", the bankruptcy of the "consumer". Don't forget that, Dr. Vrannitzky! You are also involved in this with your pillars of social democracy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The thing we blame you here is that you really fell down. You can turn it and turn it as you like. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: 17 points!]] The Minister for Economic Affairs has said it himself: A consensual politician must also have such a thing as crashing qualities. [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] This does not sound so bad, but I do not think that this has been appropriate in this case. What else does everything have to happen? - You're being insulted! You'll be thrown over with pussies and mockery! I take today's 'Mitagsjournal' as an example in which the Federal Chancellor said that it would also have been possible to carry out the CA action without the consent of the ÖVP. Then the SPÖ would have had a bit harder in future work, but in principle it would have done it on its own. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! How are you treated in this coalition?- Oh, my God! Their threats are nothing more. Bowl said before Christmas [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: 17 points!]] "If Bank Austria gets CA, then the Coalition Agreement is a product for the waste bubble." What happened now? - Nothing. Bank Austria receives CA against its will – and the Coalition Agreement is not a product for the waste bubble. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Uralsprüche!]] How seriously can you take your promises or your political ideas? [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Ural Party!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! You have never been rewarded if you have been subjected to socialism. They got a red Supervisory Board president in CA when the ÖVP was in the government. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] They got a red majority in the CA Supervisory Board when the ÖVP was in power. They have not been able to prevent the merger of Z and Landesbank while CA privatisation has remained on the track. You were in the government back then. You have not been able to prevent an employee protection law for which you today – rightly – are being beaten by your economic operators. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You have not been able to prevent a work contract scheme for which you are rightly beaten today, ladies and gentlemen. And you have not been able to prevent a red general-intendent, a former Secretary-General and Chancellor-General, from taking part in the Austrian radio system, after a non-socialist general intern in the ORF. This seems to me like a broken marriage, where both want to break up, but there is a certain dependency relationship on the part of the weaker partner, who cannot imagine it. You of the ÖVP have really done everything wrong in the last few days, which you can only do wrong. You have put your credibility at risk as an economic party, ladies and gentlemen! They are professionally standing next to the shoes. Today, this also confirms to you the world press, starting from the business news in the "Financial Times" to the "Wallstreet Journal". You've got an image of the crash, and you've shown us what your signature is worth. I'm not mad at it, but if you said, We are under compulsion, we must withdraw the signature, then we would have understood. But to pretend all of this wasn't really agreed – that's too far! A bit of handshake, Mr Khol, should also be used to over time. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: The Haider!]] That wouldn't be so bad! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I think you should think about it. The dams are broken anyway! It will certainly be more difficult – no matter how you want to do so – for politics will continue to interfere in the economy, because what is happening in Austria will now require very radical reforms. Look She is only looking at how BAWAG is already looking around with its conservative Bavarian partner in the western Länder, writing letters to all entrepreneurs and making them known: Now that there are uncertainties with the large banks in Vienna, we come and do the big business. – Mr Elsner von der BAWAG invites Mr Rhomberg, whom he does not even know, to the opera ball, and business is already being started. But when I see what opportunities there are now for the regional banks – if they are released – to make a real counterweight as an economic factor, there is also some positive in this deal, which is badly negotiated, but goes in the right direction from the principle. Busek has...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e4017	Deputies! This is already the legal speaking time of 20 minutes. – I ask for the final sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e4033	Mr. Exvizekanzler Busek said that the whole thing was a bourgeois mourning game. I don't think so! I think that's just a bad chance. The ÖVP should think about it! Because it has been beaten in the coalition, but finally it has been crawled into crosses. You made a mistake: You have not done what we wanted to allow you, namely to create the prerequisite for modern privatisation in this country. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] I therefore had this palm prepared for Mr Vice-Chancellor, because there you wished your colleague, your government partner, who said: You're on the palm!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e4066	The speaking time is over. [[Congratulations on the liberals for the Vice-President, Dr. Haider, who has left the speaker's seat.]] President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e4102	Just a clarification because it was tried to give the impression that I was in the Supervisory Board of the First Austrian Saving Cass. That is not the case, of course! [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] I've been in the First Austrian Spar-Casse for about 20 years, if I have it right in my head, one of about 200 or 250 club members. My whole "influence" is that, if I wish, I can go to the Annual General Meeting once a year and hear the Annual Report of the Chairman of the Executive Board there. This really has nothing to do with politics in the First Austrian Saving Cass. This is and remains a private club savings bank.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e4141	I call Mr Novotny. The speaking time shall not exceed 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e4162	Mr President. High house! The attention given to Mr Haider's speech was somewhat reduced by a few silent film-gags. I do not think that was a great disadvantage, but I would like to correct at least two economic statements. [[Interlocutory call to the liberals]] Mr Haider! In contrast to what you have said, unemployment in Austria has not increased, but it has been a pleasure to fall this month. We have about 15,000 unemployed less than in the same month of the previous year. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This year's growth rates will also be higher and not lower than in the previous year. But please, Mr Haider, with facts you have never had it very easy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that the sale of federal shares in the CA is an economic issue, and I hope that we can have a quiet and serious discussion on this economic question. When you look at things from this point of view, it is perfectly clear who has emerged from the events of recent times as a winner: The clear and clear winner of the last few weeks is the Austrian taxpayer. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We have succeeded in achieving a proceeds of 17.2 billion schilling for the CA shares. And I can remind you that in autumn 1996 the highest offer of the then consortium was 6.5 billion schilling. With all due respect, Mr. Vice-Chancellor: That was not a problem for the Minister of Finance. It was rather the problem that some people obviously believed that they could get special political prizes. And I must say that it is due to the steadfastness and firmness of the Federal Chancellor and the Minister of Finance that today the state has been able to redeem more than 10 billion schillings and that the taxpayer is the real winner. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is, of course, right that privatization proceeds are not among the Maastricht criteria. It is equally clear, however, that this multi-receipt means a clear budget relief. I would also like to say quite frankly that this does not, of course, mean a general warning of the budget. But that means that the next budgets can take steps in connection with additional measures to improve people with low incomes and improve pensions. We can take steps towards technology policy and the promotion of external trade, i.e. employment policy measures. All in all, the tenacity of the Federal Chancellor and the Minister of Finance and the current decision of the Coalition for hundreds of thousands of Austrians means that they will have personal benefits from these regulations. I think we should stand by that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Considering the economic aspects of CA sales, it is certainly legitimate to ask whether this transaction is economically meaningful at all. Of course, this is first of all the responsibility of the buyer himself, who must consider it, but it must also be economically comprehensible. There's one thing you need to make quite clear: It is not what was sometimes claimed to be a credit-financed purchase, but rather an active exchange. In other words, instead of using own resources to buy, we assume, American government papers, Bank Austria is buying shares of the credit institution. Bank Austria currently has its own resources of around 52 billion schilling. The framework it needs under the Banking Act is 32 billion schilling. That means she has an overhang of 20 billion schilling. At the low interest rate, which is fortunately currently in place in Austria, it is not so easy to raise 20 billion schillings as well as really profitable and meaningful. I should like to remind you that there have sometimes been some bizarre investment attempts last year. In other words, it was useful to invest this overhang in strategic participation. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's what he calls "scurril"?]] It is therefore quite clear that it is own resources that Bank Austria can use in this case for strategic participation. And, of course, this is an entrepreneurial challenge, a challenge for management, and it will be important to establish appropriate meaningful cooperation between the institutions. It should also be made quite clear from our side that it is particularly important for a service company, such as a bank, to act in agreement with the workforce and not against the workforce. It will therefore be one of the most important tasks of management to establish this agreement. The accompanying measures to which Bank Austria has committed itself will help. I am sure that Bank Austria's management will solve this task as successfully as it has successfully solved other tasks of merging credit companies. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! What are the consequences for the Austrian credit industry as a whole? It's right: With the purchase of the CA by Bank Austria a large group of banks is created in Austria. I emphasize "group", it's not an institute. The question is just how this size should be assessed. That is where we need to get rid of the narrow Austrian view. Since we are a member of the European Economic Area and a member of the European Union, there has been an international capital market in which the Austrian credit economy must prove itself. With the introduction of the euro, this competition will be even stronger. And it must be noted that in Austria we still have a relatively fragmented credit system. The largest three banks in Austria have a combined market share of 30 percent. In the Netherlands, the largest three banks combined have a market share of 70 percent. In Switzerland, the largest three banks have a market share of 76 percent. Or to give another example: In Bavaria – a country about our size – the three largest Bavarian banks together have a balance sheet sum, which is 100 billion schilling higher than the balance sheet total of all Austrian credit companies combined. Ladies and gentlemen! In other words, the realistic alternative to credit policy here was: Should a bank be separated from one another in foreign property in Austria – or do we manage to have at least one major international player in Austria, who can then also accompany the Austrian industry in their business worldwide? In addition, there will certainly also be medium-sized institutions working at regional and local level in the future. I believe that this will lead to a reasonable structure for the Austrian credit industry in the future. In addition to the question of the budget, this structural effect is one of the most important effects for the solution we have now taken. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, each of us knows that there is a structural change in the credit economy. I would like to make it quite clear that, for us, social democrats are of equal value to every job, whether he is in CA, Bank Austria or in other industrial companies, whether he was at Semperit, which is known to have been sold by CA, or whether he is, for example, in railways or in other areas, where some talk much more looser about the needs of rationalization. Every job is worth the same amount. We will fight for every job in Austria. The figures show: We are also fighting successfully. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We know, of course, that this policy cannot be defensive. We know that it is a matter of economic efficiency. We know that job security can only be done in a dynamic way, and in this way jobs in the Austrian credit industry can also be secured by opening up new business areas. That's the offensive way we're offering here. And this way, both Bank Austria's employees and CA's employees will be able to go together. They will be able to go with success together. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! A third and last point on the question of the structure of the credit economy and the role of the stock exchanges. We have a credit economy in Austria, which is divided into different sectors. I think that has proved to be the case. We also have the aspect of various liability institutions. We have the community liability – only about it has been strangely spoken so far. Of course, we also have a liability from countries for their companies. We've got the penalty supplement at the cooperatives. I would just like to tell you some sober facts here. First: It must be recognized that these liability arrangements cannot be compared with liability for individual transactions such as export liability. This is just a default liability in the case of liquidation. [[Call the liberals: "Only"?]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: At the "consumer" too?]] This is a highly theoretical aspect. If you had been dealing with this matter only a little bit, you would know that such liability has never been used in Austrian economic history. You have to deal with it, otherwise you make such calls as you just made them. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Second point: It must also be noted that this kind of liability is not an Austrian special case. There are these rules in Germany, for example. The liability in Germany is a further liability than what we have in Austria. 40 percent of the credit economy in Germany is operated by institutions under such liability. I think we are well advised not to put in place measures in Austria that will reduce the position of our credit companies in international competition by random means and without any need. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I therefore believe that it is right and legitimate that we should have a charge here. This is to be done in an economically reasonable order. That's what we're going to negotiate. We have also explained our willingness to do so. Next point: The question of the role of the stock exchange. I should like to point out that the Minister of Finance has some time ago presented a catalogue of measures aimed at increasing transparency, at preventing insider transactions and at reorganising a stock exchange company. This will, of course, involve a number of technical and organisational changes. As far as the issue of small shareholders is concerned, we need to know that a new regulation is currently being discussed within the framework of the European Union. It is a very strange thing that a committee of the European Parliament just last week discussed this problem, with the Social Democratic Members of the European Union in order to achieve automatic, mandatory equality between small shareholders. [[Abg. May. Stadler: It's not inside!]] The Conservative Members have rejected this by their majority, on the grounds that there is something for themselves: It is not worth every share the same amount, whether I reach a majority in a company with this share or not. They also know the principle of the "golden share" and the like. Nor is it always the case that you need to be careful: The small shareholder is certainly someone who deserves protection, but it must be prevented from opening up special possibilities of speculation through legislation. That means that this is an open discussion. Austria is not an individual case at all. We will have to conduct this discussion, taking into account international experience and taking into account EU rules. In this sense, I believe that we will also have a proper regulation. Ladies and gentlemen! Overall, I would see the now completed but long history of the sale of federal shares in CA as discussed by the economic journalists and economic experts in the "press hour" on Sunday on television. First: Winners are definitely the taxpayers. Secondly, I would agree with what Dr. Wailand said about the "Kronen Zeitung": It is good that the current solution has created a clear Austrian solution, because this Austrian solution gives the opportunity for further positive developments not only in the banking sector but also in the further economic sector. Thirdly, I would also like to follow what private banker Dr. Spängler said, who was a member of the board of trustees, who participated in the request of the First General. He said it was to congratulate the Minister for Finance that he had led a pathetic story to a good end through steadfastness and seriosity. Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to congratulate a private banker, who was present in the other consortium, on behalf of my group. I also think this deserves the congratulations of all the political groups who are interested in the taxpayer's money. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The coalition has achieved a good solution for the Austrian economy, a good solution for the Austrian taxpayer and a good basis for further successful work of this coalition government. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[15:15]] President Dr Heinz Fischer: Before giving the floor to the next speaker, I would like to warmly welcome official guests from Finland, namely the President of the Finnish Reichstag Riitta Uosukainen and a five-party delegation. [[General condolences.]] The next speaker is Mr Dr. Hazelsteiner. The speaking time is 20 minutes, except for shorter requests. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: (on the way to the speaker's desk) If you stop me for 18 minutes!]] 18 minutes, please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e4366	Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The last words of Mr Novotny and the first words of Mr. Federal Chancellor in today's speeches have led me to address, in addition to the issue of privatization of the credit institution, another problem that has become particularly evident to me – and I think some of you might have done it similarly – today. There are two sitting here who have nothing more to say to each other. There are two political groups sitting here who simply have to frighten a citizen of that country in their body language. And we have to ask ourselves today: How and who will govern us? Ladies and gentlemen! In this cooperation, you are not able to do this, even if you can make a marathon from time to time. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] If the Federal Chancellor goes out of here today and says that offensive politics is necessary in order for us to move on and deal with the problems in this country, and that in connection with a causa that has run through a privatization story for six years, then, I must say, I no longer understand. I no longer understand it when one knows that Mr Sozialminister Hums, for example, failed twice in the Council of Ministers with a working time legislation. If we are unable to finally deal with regional radio and similar soluble problems in this republic, I do not understand where an "offensive policy" should be identified here. Ladies and gentlemen! That's the worry that hits me in the very first line. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I also believe that, when the Federal Chancellor speaks of offensive politics, it is legitimate to remind the Chancellor that the major reformal shifts that are constantly being made in every statement of government and in every budgetary speech have not taken place. We don't have a pension reform. We have no health care reform. We don't have a university reform. We do not have these reforms. I do not recognise an offensive policy, Federal Chancellor. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Marizzi.]] Be careful. Television is there, and your very rarely funny, mostly not very intelligent calls could be transmitted. Gentlemen! You shouldn't always do that. Ladies and gentlemen! But let us now turn to the real problem of matters and say that the Bank Austria is without question a bank in the field of SPÖ. I regret to have to say that because it is an Austrian cum that banks are referred to by party colors: a red one, a black one. That's very strange. You can read this in the "Wallstreet Journal", Mr. Wurmitzer, if you can read so much English, then you can read it there. Then I'll be They recognize: This is an Austrian cum, Mr Wurmitzer, red and black in the bank! Now the question has to be asked: Can a red or black bank make such an offer? – She may, even if you have disputed it. Ladies and gentlemen! Whether she can, that's another chapter. We are building on the fact that the Minister for Finance and his Commission has dealt with this question: Is it possible for Bank Austria to raise these financial resources? Mr. Vice-Chancellor! If you say that this is very much and you would be concerned about it, I can say that. You recall that the consortium supported by you has finally improved its offer to 15 billion schillings, but that is a bit naughty, as you have to admit, from under 7 billion to just over 15 billion shillings. This is a doubling, and it casts a significant light on the whole thing, Mr. Vice-Chancellor. You should draw attention to the fact that the look is not optimal in your association where you have been a member for 20 years. Your club, your club savings bank has made this offer prominently and doubled the price. I think there is some need for explanation. Ladies and gentlemen! The next question is: Can it be organized, namely Bank Austria, and can it be personneled? Mr Novotny has already pointed out that this problem will not be fully recognizable until the next few years. This hostile takeover – as such it was perceived from the beginning – was then, I think, made much stronger by this political struggle. This "hostile taskover" has also been brought about politically, and it will make the reorganisation very difficult for this important banking device to grow together. Ladies and gentlemen! The next question is: Should a party or state-influenced bank like Bank Austria offer such a takeover offer? The answer is probably clear: Yes, but only under certain conditions. [[Abg. Wormitzer: That clearly means yes!]] You have heard these requirements here several times. – It was and is of course the withdrawal of the AVZ, with, ladies and gentlemen, the seven-year deadline you have granted unbearable. Of course, there is a need for voluntary cutback in domestic market share, including, of course, the breakdown of GiroCredit, including measures in the area of investment banks and in the field of control banks. But it is unfortunate that all these measures, which should have been easy, self-evident and without discussion, were so tough to the Socialists and that false signals were placed here. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Häupl voted such an initiative in the Council. He clearly stated that he did not intend to withdraw from the AVZ and give up the party's political influence. I believe, therefore, that many bankers, many industrialists, many commercials are rightly concerned about whether this new structure will continue to have the predicate "red" and be a party-affected institution. I believe that only management will be able to disperse these fears by means of a wise and targeted enterprise policy. I believe that there must be a business policy that will restore confidence, including with such customers, investors, lenders and borrowers who do not belong to or are close to this one party. I hope that it will be reflected, in particular, in the staff policy of this new institution, that a step towards depoliticization is planned and actually put in place. Not all boards should always be found in the first row of a SPÖ party. That would be an encouraging signal for those who want to do business with this bank. Finally, I hope that there will also be a reduction in domestic competition by this new institution, which will give the other market participants in the banking sector the opportunity to balance and recover this size, this immediate advantage. For what we need, ladies and gentlemen, is diversity in the banking sector – and not a mastery by a large institution. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have already presented all of this before Christmas, when it became known that this offer by Bank Austria is most likely the best and highest offer and that it will therefore be illegal if the Federal Minister in charge of this offer decides. Unfortunately, in the meantime a comedy, a tragedy, a "trafficking game", says Busek, has also played a pose, in any case something that this country does not deserve. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: A posse!]] Finally, you could also name it with: A lot of noise for nothing. For what we know today, ladies and gentlemen, you could have had less damage to the banks concerned and greater security for the employees concerned, with less effort, vortex and uncertainty. As you have easily tried to change political change, you have forgotten that this is a large institution that is important to this country and which you are talking about. In doing so, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, you have partly forgotten the text of this piece, and the souffle was not at hand either. Otherwise it would not have been possible for you to make proposals yourself which contradict the authorisation law you have passed. Otherwise, there would have been no such thing as You simply ignore the terms of the invitation to tender which the Federal Minister has repeatedly mentioned to you and which were in agreement with your experts. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Vice Chancellor Dr. Schüssel: That's wrong!]] Mr. Vice-Chancellor! If it's wrong, you should also dementate it loud and clearly! The Federal Minister has said on several occasions – and you have never denied it – that you knew these terms of call. [[Vice chancellor Dr. Schüssel: Oh yes!]] It is also your confidence and confidence that you know them. The ÖVP is government party, you bear responsibility in this country. If you have finally formulated 17 points in a marathon, ladies and gentlemen, then I have to say that there are a few among them – I have mentioned it – what we have mentioned from the outset as minimum conditions. Otherwise, such a large business, the largest in the economic history of the Second Republic, cannot be held responsible and not represented. Allow me to draw your attention to this: You decided a lot of nonsense that night. Ladies and gentlemen! Explain to me again: What did you mean by "workplace guarantee"? What job guarantee do you have in mind – a circular character like at the time at the VOEST Alpine? Is that what you have in mind, and what can it cost? How many billions can it cost? [[Calls.]] Do you have a job guarantee in the sense of à la Semperit? Is that what you want? Or la "consum"? What job guarantee do you think? Have you not yet learned that a politician, if he wants to guarantee jobs, is everyone at risk? Faith Do you not think it is appropriate for the staff in the credit institution and in Bank Austria to take control of this problem of their own job security with their own management, through performance and through the existence of international competition? The ladies and gentlemen who work there are able to do so, and they will prove it to you. You don't need to guarantee them anything. Above all, you should not just want to get home cheap and say, yes, we can use this for ourselves: We have secured the jobs – which you have previously threatened verbally by painting the horror ghosts on the wall. In every industry, including banking, there are as many jobs as competition allows. There are as many jobs as there is the volume of business that is hopefully worked out and generated by competent and good employees there – and not as many jobs as a political party or a government coalition would like to see. This is a mistake! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I think you made some mistakes in this paper. For example – this is so striking again – you say: All right, now we're going to say goodbye to the consolidation regulation. – You know, this is a law we passed last year in this House. And now you want to amend this law that we have passed? This is not what we understand under fixed, predictable, trusting framework conditions. Ladies and gentlemen! This is a new case of sin which you commit here, as well as retroactive laws; as well as constitutional laws that you arbitraryly bring about in order to give the Constitutional Court the opportunity to abolish a provision; just as you retroactively use taxpayers without being able to shape it, in the sacks. That too is such a case of sin. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Reactive laws are not fair, and they do not increase confidence: neither by economic operators nor by other Austrians in this Federal Government. Finally, let me turn to the future, to those aspects which we believe should be the focus. It is a great concern that we should restore the desired and necessary diversity in the Austrian banking sector as soon as possible, in so far as the institutions should be in a similar size to each other so that they can also exist in this competition. I believe that, in the banking landscape, next to the stock banks, two sectors offer to be mentioned here in particular. One is the large savings bank sector with 74 institutes and a GiroCredit, which is to be released from the influence of the central savings bank's share management. It is therefore appropriate that these 74 savings banks would become a powerful second bank in Austria through a holding solution, but in my view it would be even more stringent to grant shares. Ladies and gentlemen, you, who are dealing with this question, know that this would be the larger bank than the new construction credit institution and bank Austria. I believe that this measure can be put in place while maintaining the regionality and basic acceptance of the fundamental federalist idea. However, I believe that this measure must be started quickly and implemented with the necessary hardness to individual resistances based on individual interests if you believe that. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! For us, the central savings bank's share management is not a problem, a theme that comes from the last century, because it involves a community liability, but: We believe that both the municipal liability and the ownership of savings banks are no longer modern. I believe that only the fact that there is an owner will take us a step further. That's where I appeal to you – I didn't know you've been a club member for 20 years – to your club: Step ahead! They, the First Austrian Saving Cass, have the same final beneficiaries as the Z. The last beneficiary is the municipality of Vienna in both cases. There's no difference. Either it is the community of liability or it is the seat municipality. I'm appealing to you: Go forward and open a step You will find these options in the budget of your community, namely the municipality of Vienna. She needs it anyway. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Mr. Vice-Chancellor! We will not only invite you and your party, but also look at what you understand under the withdrawal of the parties. Not only the savings banks, but also the state mortgage institutions, also various other institutions and, above all, the whole sectors of the privatization sector. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Party influence is not only harmful to banks, but is also harmful to energy economies. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] We note with great satisfaction that you have nothing else in mind than this withdrawal of the parties from banks and from other economic sectors, and we will remind you of that. Today, Mr Vice-Chanzler, you can go along with your group, because we have prepared three motions for resolutions, all of which are aimed at reducing party influence on banks and savings banks, giving them ownership and opening up the way to Europe, the way to a reasonable size and the way to competitiveness. If you really think what you said here a few minutes ago, Mr Vice-Chancellor, I do not think that you will agree to these motions for resolutions, in particular the request concerning the creation of a privatisation law in the banking sector, which is there and which I ask you to take note of: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! If you do not punish your vice chancellor and do not want to give the signal, not he is right, but Mr Wendelin Weingartner, who has already declared that the Tyrolean State Mortgage Institute remains in possession and under the influence of the country, then you agree with this proposal and the two legislative initiatives to be presented by Mr Kier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e4537	The motion for a resolution, which has just been read, bears a sufficient number of signatures and is therefore under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Khol. He's talking for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e4561	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear colleague Haselsteiner! If you had said some of what you had just done about the effects of nationalization and the effects of the privatisation of credit institution and bank Austria before the decision, I would even have been grateful to you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That you're only saying it now is a little late. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: If you could read!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have convened this special session today, and many citizens do not understand why we are calling on the National Council for a decision on a bank of 183 Members and why we are discussing a question for so long that even some people call the coalition into question. [[Abg. Wabl: Already decided!]] [[Abg. Schaffenrath: No one understands that!]] [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: From you!]] Ladies and gentlemen! For us, the future of thousands of employees of the Creditanstalt Bankverein, a 142-year-old traditional bank, and an economic empire with over 50,000 employees is such an essential question, Mr Bundeskanzler, that we do not want to let them pass by Parliament, but here in Parliament we want to discuss them with the national councils. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to remind you how suddenly, from the bright sky, the offer of Bank Austria for the acquisition of the credit institution via the "Kronen Zeitung" came to the consciousness of the people, the people who were on 25 May. On November 14, the Director-General of Bank Austria said: [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: "Kronen Zeitung"!]] "What, Bank Austria is applying for the credit institution? It's a fascism!" When we heard that a re-nationalization is planned – that is, that the credit institution should be taken over by a bank owned by the state of Vienna, the municipality of Vienna – all the alarm bells have called us. [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: rang!]] This was a serious, important and major economic policy decision, which should suddenly be taken in a way which was not laid down in the Government Agreement. We are on the ground of this government agreement! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I think it will be understood to everyone in this Republic that one wants to remove from the influence of the State such a large economic formation as the credit institution and its thousands of employees, together with Bank Austria and its thousands of employees, from the influence of the State and to withdraw the influence of the political parties. According to the experience we have had with the work and capital destruction in the "consumer" and with the nationalized industry in the 1970s – we still pay for the debts we made at the time – this cannot happen to Parliament. [[Abg. Koppler: He has no idea at all!]] Such an important decision over 50,000 hard-working Austrians: passing the Government Convention and Parliament. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The special session has already brought about what it should do. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] The decision on the credit institution has been taken: The credit institution has been sold to a bank of Austria other than that which existed a month ago. There will be a decision without nationalization, without nationalization, it will be fully privatization, it will result in the withdrawal from politics, from the bank. [[Abg. Wabl: It's not over yet!]] There is a reform boost in the capital market, a guarantee for the continued existence of the credit institution and also for employees in the credit institution. This is extremely important and positive for us. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It's right, therefore, if the "South German newspaper" was on 13 March. January 1997, one day after the 17-points programme was adopted, which we negotiated in 11 hours, writes: "State sells bank participation. SPÖ agrees to complete the transaction in accordance with ÖVP conditions." [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: Is that a paid advertisement?]] This makes it possible for us to agree to this new bank Austria, precisely because it is privatized. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Has the paper been published?]] This is the "South German newspaper" of the 13th century. January. Is this so unpleasant to you, Mr. Colleague? [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] We now know, on the basis of the 17-point programme, that Bank Austria is being removed from the sphere of policy and state influence. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It must already be said that Bernhard Görg and Michael Häupl have been working for six weeks on this question, during the government negotiations in Vienna, and the Social Democrats were then not prepared to release the Bank Austria from their influence that it was still on the 18th century. The decision of the other parties, including the Liberal Forum, to privatize the Bank Austria, was prevented by a red-green majority in the Vienna Municipal Council. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Schmidt]] – What the municipal council rejected, which was rejected in the government negotiations in Vienna, we have now achieved: A new bank privatizes Austria and no longer politicalizes it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It has been questioned by one of the previous speakers whether this privatisation is really a privatisation. [[The speaker shows a paper.]] It is clear from this point of view, which was also signed by the entire negotiating team, that immediately after the relevant decisions of the municipality of Vienna, the administration of the shares belonging to the municipality of Vienna via the AVZ is carried out by partyless, impartial trustees. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Did I sign that?]] Thus, as soon as these decisions are taken, there will be trustees who no longer have party policy instructions to manage the shares of the municipality of Vienna. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: The Trustee is the State!]] ==References== It was said in December that this decision was only a decision of the Minister of Finance and that the government partner was not at all concerned with it, I am very glad that this special meeting was held on Saturday for five minutes, but was discussed for 10 hours and 55 minutes, as far as we are supposed to be concerned. – It’s very important to us: The Government Convention rests on two partners and is also imposed on us for realization. We insist that it be fulfilled on point and indent. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Vice-President has already said why, for us, this bank solution, Bank Austria and credit institution, is problematic for structural reasons. The prize may be true, but a previous speaker also said: Bank Austria can only offer such a high price, a price of 2 billion schillings higher than the next bidder, because over the next few years it is given by the taxpayer, by all of us, 1.8 billion schillings. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: Who decided, Mr. Khol?]] This has been concluded by the Minister of Finance, without reference to the Federal Government or Parliament. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: No, you decided!]] This is a contract by which Bank Austria receives 1.8 billion schilling from the taxpayer's resources. I believe that this must be taken into account when talking about the price. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We believe that the credit institution would have liked to become a second bidder, the consortium, because the banking structure of the First Austrian and the other contributors would have been more complementary to the credit institution. We also know that the acquisition by Bank Austria is regarded by the credit institution as a hostile takeover, and we also know that in the history of bank mergers hostile acquisitions have never been proven, but – quite the contrary! – almost always went wrong. – Which is not my hope. It will be the management of this new bank, the staff of the credit institution who are afraid and afraid of their existence, in order to have their salaries, in order to their fortunes, to convince them that a good future is ahead of them and that they will not be sought for their existence, that this new management will ensure that the staff of the credit institution continue to be able to expect a good future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As has already been said, we were alone with this opinion. The Freeman threatened the Minister of Finance with a ministerial loan if he did not sell to Bank Austria. The Liberal Forum has voted in favour of the Bank of Austria, but subject to a later privatisation. We have now achieved this privatisation. A very balanced and interesting statement came from the Greens by Professor Van der Bellen. Bank Austria would have failed, but the consortium would have failed. . I did not become quite smart about what he meant by that, but it was a balanced opinion anyway. With our support for the other solution, however, we stood alone. It was therefore inevitable that Bank Austria should be entrusted with these credit institution shares. However, we have been able to uphold our principles so that a second or third best solution can be represented, because we have enforced privatisation, the withdrawal from politics, the withdrawal of policy from banks. There is an employee guarantee for the employees and workers of the credit institution, the small shareholders will be found, there will be an extensive privatisation law. All of this is ensured by today's resolution, by laws, but also by the obligation of the AVC, also that the necessary decisions must be taken within four weeks. In these circumstances, I can only say: I hope that this new bank, this new economic structure, will be managed carefully so that the people who find work there will keep their jobs.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e4887	Mr Trattner referred to an actual correction. I would ask you to describe the facts to be corrected and to compare them with the actual ones. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e4911	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr Khol has claimed that the liberals would have threatened with a ministerial loan if the sale of the Federal Shares of the CA to Bank Austria would go. – This situation is incorrect. We have threatened with a ministerial credit in case if not sold to the highest bidder.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e4938	Mrs Petrovic. — (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e4960	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! The matter on which Austria has so banned in the last few days is decided. In the media, in the public, is discussed who the winners are. The SPÖ hastens to say that it is the taxpayers. The Minister of Finance is acting as a winner. One thing is obvious – and I would like to deal with it – how and with what intensity this matter has been dealt with in the Federal Government. Three points are important to me: The question of the intra-politicalness of the whole process, the question: Privatisations in Austria – how else? And thirdly, the question of the Cases themselves: Bank Austria – CA. On the first point, on the domestic situation and the ability to express the events of the last days. It is indeed staggering to see with what intensity, with what hardness and also with what willingness to eventually take into account the consequence of a break in the coalition was done. Many people in the population may ask themselves the question: Why is not the same commitment negotiated at other points in Austria? Why are there no marathon sessions for this? Why does not the chancellor, the vice chancellor, impose conditions and enforce them with extreme determination? We will have a number of popular desires in the coming spring. All the points on which the government of the population no longer makes an offer, where we also know that there are different positions between the coalition parties, but there is no solution, to a more or less good compromise. They're just saying, The views are different. But nothing happens in environmental policy, especially in genetic engineering. We know that there are different attitudes between Minister Krammer and Minister Bartenstein. Mr. Bundeskanzler, Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Why Negotiating Don't you think about it for nights? Is it not worth as much as the influence of SPÖ or ÖVP in the banking sector as your red or black posts? Is that not also a matter that would require eleven hours of hard negotiations? Or animal welfare: There was already a very successful popular desire. Half a million people have supported it. Today we should have had the negotiations on how this goes on. Perhaps it is a symbol that precisely these negotiations have fallen victim to your banking dispute. Animal welfare must continue to wait, so that all those people who have supported this popular desire. Women's policy: We also know that there are different attitudes in the government. It would be so important to finally do something about discrimination against women. Also there are women, people from the population who become active because the government does not fight for it with the same intensity as for the credit institution and the bank Austria. Health care: We know that there were different opinions on this – even in this House. It is referred to a popular desire, and the government says: Yeah, there's nothing going on. – That’s the really worrying statement. What else are you fighting for? - You're fighting for your influence. Since you see that the political influence of the parties in Austria is declining, that you are no longer pursuing a major objective together, you are trying to secure your influence in the near-state sector: in the banking sector, in the insurance sector, in the e-business. Its main focus is on saving your grain – and not on the issues that are really at the heart of the population, which will be the subject of popular desires in spring. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Further: The pathetic history of privatization in Austria. This story was a sad one. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! You too have already gained bad experiences. I would remind you of the transport office, of the discussion about Schönbrunn. These processes remind us of what is happening now. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! This is because this federal government, including the EIA, does not really have a concept. It is simply not true that in all cases and in principle "private" is better than "State". Although it is true in many areas, the state has proved to be a good entrepreneur in many areas. It works wherever we have functioning markets. In fact, it is not to be seen that the State should operate a travel agency or a bank. However, we must be careful in privatization, be careful, put labour market interests first, and make it clear that there are areas which are not suitable for privatisations, where we pursue other, more important, public, objectives where not only private interests but also environmental protection are concerned. As long as, for example in the transport sector and throughout the energy sector, we do not have a cost-effectiveness as long as it is still possible that energy, even in the public sector, is not only consumed but even wasted, so long as you do not have functioning markets there, and it should be the most important task for public enterprises to have to achieve environmental objectives: An ecological energy supply, an environmentally sound transport, that is, a public transport. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It must also be a matter of course in Austria that we do not waste and shroud our cultural heritage, the cultural monuments, but that it must be in the interest of the public good and remain. So on the last point, on the concrete, almost infinite history around the credit institution and Bank Austria. The Greens were and believe that this is an area in which privatisation is basically useful, in which privatisation is to be carried out in principle, and that the Minister of Finance, the Minister for Finance, should give the best bid. It appears that, in this case, the best bidder is actually the Bank Austria, even though it is still subject to strong public influence. It is the best bidder, and it is therefore obvious that the Minister of Finance has focused his attention on this and first of all has tried to reach a conclusion. But there too it would have been necessary – and we miss this especially in the SPÖ process – to question some areas critically. For whether the Bank Austria is the best bidder is based not only on the financial offer placed on the table here and today, but also on the concept of a company that is being sought for the future. It has calmed us very much that a clear statement on banking jobs as regards the credit institution is contained in the takeover concept. Further confidence-building measures will be needed in order to ensure that these assurances are genuinely credible. But the credit institution is not just a bank: She has a total of 30 billion Schilling companies in her business area, and there are as important companies as the Wienerberger Group, Steyr-Daimler-Puch, the Universale, Andritz, Semperit, Lenzing, the Austrian Braubeeiligungs AG, Donauchemie, Hutter & Schrantz and so on. The Bank Austria's paper on future corporate philosophy is not clear from our point of view. Because here it says: To reduce participation by taking up industrial partners, only minority interests are to be maintained. There is also no statement about the time horizon. Federal Chancellor! How is this going to happen? – It is about thousands of jobs in industry, not in the banking sector, and it is now clear from the Government that this will not be a quick sale out, but that we are working with an eye. We believe that employees in industry, in CA's Group companies, have the same right to know the safety of their jobs as employees in the banking sector. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] Here you have to make clarifications from the government, and you must not allow an uncontrolled and overly streamlined privatisation strategy. Federal Chancellor! Similarly, it is said to pour out the child with the bath when, in the course of this a bank technical, as has been said, prima vista is shaken very interesting and quite chance-rich business other areas of Austrian money and credit in its credibility, in its trustworthiness. Why this 17-point programme at once contains provisions on the savings bank sector – which is really threatening – is incomprehensible. You have not lost anything in this agreement. We think it is the wrong way to call into question such a historically grown Austrian institution in such a way that it shakes the confidence of the market. On the contrary, we believe that, in the future, especially the savings bank sector, and probably also the cooperative sector that is really focused on members, will be of great importance and that Austria's banking and credit sector will also be specializing. There will be a few large institutions and a very highly member-oriented area of smaller institutions that is directly committed to the population. Do not create a control plant in a wash-up that will break you over everything and with the areas that you have grown up historically, such as the savings industry or the cooperative sector! In order to give you the opportunity to comment on these concerns of the Greens also at this meeting, I would like to make two requests: a request which we hope, in particular, for the approval of the Socialist Group, if you seriously believe what you are saying in terms of industrial employment and employment offensive, and a request to which I would like to point out that, above all, the ÖVP should be interested in improving the attractiveness of the public stock market location in Vienna and Austria. [[Quoted print version removed]] The second resolution concerns a fundamental reform of the Vienna Stock Exchange. [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! There is no need to add anything to the climate that exists here in this coalition government. It does not need to comment. It is also very strong in your applause today. None of the SPÖ's Members voted in favour of any speech by the ÖVP – and vice versa. So the state of this coalition, and you have allowed the important concerns that people really demand – in terms of environmental protection, in social and women's policies – to be postponed, to be left to the population within the framework of popular desires. This federal government can no longer count on credibility in the population as long as it fights for the privatisation and sale of a bank for weeks – and be it so important – but leaves these concerns on the left of the population and therefore no longer scraps.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e5154	The two motions for resolutions tabled by Mrs Petrovic are sufficiently supported and will be included in the negotiations. The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Ederer in word. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e5178	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, the FPÖ clubman meant that people expect a real withdrawal of politics from the economy. – There was a single bankruptcy of an Austrian bank in the last decades, namely that of the private BHI in Graz. There many savers had considerable problems. And it was the same Jörg Haider who today called for the withdrawal of politics from the economy, who then said – I am now reading from his speech in the National Council – that: [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: 4 billion for the Landesbank, 8 billion for CA!]] [[further calls for tender for the liberals]] Jörg Haider: You could say now, well, that's a private bank, which is what this is about the state. - It's something that matters to him! That is, the same Jörg Haider, who today demanded the withdrawal of politics, was the first in the BHI bankruptcy – I don't want to say: Opportunist – who said: intervene, here you should become active, according to the motto: [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] As long as it goes well, everything should be private; if it goes badly, the Austrian State should intervene and make up for the damage. [[Abg. Haigermoser: The red Gitti does it!]] Ladies and gentlemen! There is nothing about a consistent political attitude. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] For the ÖVP, the indirect engagement of the city of Vienna at Bank Austria was enough to say – Mr Klubobmann has said it again today – that it is not about real privatisation. When the Federation sold the shares of the Ill plants to Vorarlberg in November 1995, leading representatives of the ÖVP spoke of a grand privatisation. Today we can read in the "Kurier" that Landesrat Leitl considers that the federal government should issue the shares in the joint venture and the federal states should buy them. – There is nothing about a consistent political attitude: If I like it, it is good that a country buys, and if I do not like it, I am against it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The third point I would like to mention is that, in my opinion, the FPÖ has always expressed its right to say that the sale of the shares of the credit institution shares must bring the best possible proceeds for the budget. Now there is – I come back to the Ill works – a statement by Mr Mag. Stadler at a press conference of 12. August 1995, where he said: Not the country wants a cheap purchase price for the Vorarlberger Ill plants, but the federal government wants to overrun Vorarlberg with a 1 billion schilling at a high purchase price. – So, there is nothing about a consistent political attitude: It's always good if the budget gets a lot as long as it doesn't concern the federal state, in power. Stadler is at home because other rules apply, namely that stop is sold as cheaply as possible. This is clearly useful to him in Vorarlberg. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Weaker than today, you have never been!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: It is not for you to know what a homefall is!]] Today, the FPÖ clubman warned of the risk of selling out the Austrian economy. On the other hand, the FPÖ was prepared without thinking to remove liabilities from municipalities at Sparkassen immediately. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] This would have led, ladies and gentlemen, to the fact that a third of the Austrian savers were not insured by the loss of the liability of the municipalities, because they made their deposits at these savings banks, but, on the other hand, those savings banks with which the liabilities had been taken back would have been practically bought from today to tomorrow. And we all know that, especially in the West, these savings banks had been bought by foreign banks, primarily from Bavarian banks. This is a "consequenced" political attitude: to be against the sale, but to make a proposal immediately, according to which a whole area would go to the foreign economy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The Vice-Chancellor of the Republic of Austria and ÖVP-Obmann said today that he is in favour of a withdrawal of the policy from the credit economy. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, and this is an exciting development, some ÖVP-dominated federal states are reorganizing their participation in the credit sector. But there is nothing to be noticed of withdrawal, quite the contrary. I have here the report of the Committee on Finance of the Upper Austrian Landing Day. Oberösterreich has transformed its state mortgage company into a stock company. I am now quoting part of this report: In order to give the Landtag the greatest possible scope for participation – we speak of the Upper Austrian Landtag – any sale or burden on the shares of its consent needs. This ensures that a change in the ownership of the country cannot be achieved without parliamentary approval. - Quote. That is good, it contradicts what ÖVP-Obmann said today. [[Abg. May. Stadler: consent! The SPÖ has agreed!]] This is even stronger in the laws of Salzburg and Vorarlberg. It is so wallowed at all that the state government and the country day must agree to a sale. That is, one withdraws – that is, a very consistent political attitude – and the others support it and look so as to strengthen its sphere of influence. I would like to focus on what Klubobmann Haider has repeatedly stressed in terms of job security. He was one of the first to say that there must be job guarantees, but it must be provided so that the Bank of Austria does not suffer job losses when the Bank of Austria is taken over, and the Minister of Finance has to take care of it. That was late December. – Today he said: The job guarantee that stands in there is a shame, which can never be observed in life. – This is really a "consequenced" political attitude: In December, a job guarantee is required, in January, if it fits differently, one says: That's a shame, we don't want it all. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As a last point, I would like to quote from a press conference of the then Minister of Economic Affairs Ditz, which I very much appreciate personally: In the 1995 budget year, Dezz used at least 10 billion Schillings for the credit institution and the Vorarlberger Ill plants. – This Federal Government under the leadership of Federal Chancellor Vranitzky and Minister of Finance Climate has redeemed 17 billion Schilling for the credit institution alone. Congratulations! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e5322	Mr Feurstein referred to an actual correction. – Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to give you the floor and ask you to start with the facts you want to correct.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e5346	Mrs Ederer here claimed that leading Vorarlberg politicians had spoken of a privatisation of the Ill works. – This statement is wrong and incorrect. [[Abg. Dr. Fuhrmann: She didn't say that either!]] The question was that the country of Vorarlberg's right of home should be replaced by the right to buy back the country of Vorarlberg and that the rights to enjoy the land of Vorarlberg should be governed. These were the four areas that it was about when the reintroduction of the shares of the federal government to the Vorarlberger Ill works was carried out. Secondly, You made a statement at the purchase price. [[Abg. May. Stadler: This has nothing to do with Bank Austria, Mrs. Ederer!]] That's what I'm correcting: The purchase price was determined by an opinion, and not otherwise, taking into account these rights.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e5395	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Trattner. – Ladies and gentlemen, you have given a seven-minute voluntary limit on speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e5417	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! I can only say to Mrs Ederer's speech: They still fall into the old political pattern that the state belongs to the political parties that the state is divided between red and black. As long as you don't solve it, you don't need to talk about privatisations at all. [[Complaints with the liberals]] .. Mr Klubobmann Khol is really strange. After the long night of the agreement, in which everything was in vain wonder and greetings, he has considered how to cancel this special session again, which does not need to take place. – Now this special session is apparently so urgent. Perhaps one has insisted that one has been pulled over the table, so a urgent request is made. However, it seems that the urgent question to the Minister of Economic Affairs is not so urgent again, because one third of the questions to the Minister of Economic Affairs have been raised again. – Mr Klubobmann! What does your group want? Tell me! What does your group want to ask you if, with our group in the Federal Council, you propose a joint privatisation request and following this privatisation request, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats will come to the freedom of movement and ask whether it would be impossible to appoint two negotiating teams so that distortions of competition in the Austrian banking sector can be abolished. Two negotiating teams were nominated. In the first round of negotiations, tax points were added on which one spoke, including this joint privatisation request, a joint legislative change in the Savings Act, the Stock Act, the Banking Act and the like. ==References== There was another round of negotiations in which Mr Farnleitner, Minister of Economic Affairs, said: Now we set out these points on which we reach agreement – and then we make a joint press statement. As I have negotiated for the delegation, I have therefore proposed to the Minister for Economic Affairs to look first at the common ground. We then found common accords in the field of the resolution on privatisation, in the field of savings banks' legislation novels, the banking law novelles and the stock laws novelles, with regard to a tax-law solution to the overdose of pension reserves at the Oesterreichische Nationalbank, and that shares of the parties to the Oesterreichische Nationalbank must be sold within one year. That was agreed. With regard to the reform of cooperatives, the EIA pointed to the ongoing review process. There was a next appointment on 13. It was agreed at 11 a.m. in January 1997 and was agreed in writing that this political consensus would apply regardless of the decision of the Minister of Finance at Causa CA. All of a sudden, you've been the offenders and you've said: We agreed with our coalition partner. - That's good and right. – The date has not been cancelled. Our negotiating delegation came to an agreed date – and there was emptiness. [[Abg. May. Stadler: In the Raab room!]] Everything was quiet in the Julius-Raab room. I've got "Glory God!" said – no human. That's what I thought: That must not be true! When we called the ÖVP club, it said: The negotiations are moving spatially to the Ministry of Economic Affairs. So we went to the Ministry of Economic Affairs. There we spoke to the Minister for Economic Affairs, who explained the outcome of the negotiations. I must say that the atmosphere in the negotiations was very constructive and very objective; it was a good climate. We have believed that we are coming closer to the matter in the interest of the Austrian banking industry. But it was another blatant step back in this agreement, which the Minister of Economic Affairs today says is privatisation: It is an extension of the nationalization law by another seven years! He understands that by privatization. The Minister of Economic Affairs is only going to the stock exchange and wants to have a wide distribution of shares if his area is not on the move. There are very different correspondences, Mr Vice-Chancellor. There is the exchange of letters regarding the savings sector, which should be discussed together with Schüssel, Ditz, the Federal Chamber of Commerce and Dr. Koren, how the CA is going if the First Austrian does not come to the train. That's what it said: Then the Raiffeisenkasse will come to the train, and then we will see that we can meet with the regional banks a solution with the First Austrian Saving Cass. You only want a wide spread when you get close to another partner making a reasonable offer, a top offer that benefits the Austrian budget. Then you will be light watchful, and there must be a wide scatter. – These games don't work anymore, Mr. Vice-Chancellor! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This paper we signed and that at the date of the 13th anniversary. In the course of the discussion at the Ministry of Economic Affairs for zero and annulled, January was still supposed to have been formulated in concrete form. What do you think of such a negotiating partner? Next time, go to the Salt Office if you need something – but please don't come to the Freeman any more if you're looking for any means of negotiation! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Now comes the best: When the ORF got pointed out that we were in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and there was a round of talks, we were not even going to leave out at the official entry or exit. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: What? It's not possible!]] It has been said that a Lord will accompany you through the back exit, because the ORF is there. – What do you think? We have declared to this Lord: Where we leave the Ministry of Economic Affairs, we still decide, the negotiating delegation of the liberals – but not you! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Where was that?]] [[Cheerfulness with the Freeman and the SPÖ.]] When we went out, the porter wanted to stop us from going through the back exit. We left the building. [[Call to the Freeman: A bourgeois mourning game!]] During this discussion, we asked the Minister for Economic Affairs, which is now with the paper. It is already in the course of the conversation on 23 March. It was signed by both parties on 1 December 1996. – Even this convolut was then null and void – a paper that you can crush. That would have been a chance! I'm sure we won't do that. But this would have been an opportunity to help the idea of privatisation in Austria to create a new impetus. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I have also really noticed that the Minister for Economic Affairs was not very well on the whole matter. But obviously the pressure from you, Mr Vice-Chancellor, the "Oberprivatiser", to torpedo economic-politically relevant, good projects, was far too great. To ensure that privatisation in Austria is finally a step further, the liberals are making several motions for resolutions, first of all a resolution on strengthening the position of minority shareholders. [[Quoted print version removed]] The following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I shall also put forward a motion for a resolution on the reform of cooperative law. [[Quoted print version removed]] Another motion for a resolution will be distributed. This motion for a resolution is essentially about the fact that the merger of Bank Austria and Creditanstalt will bring about a more serious restructuring of the Austrian banking landscape. We want to inform the Minister of Finance about how EU accession and forced entry into the third stage of economic and monetary union will affect the anonymity of savings books, banking supervision and so on. The Minister of Finance is also invited to report within three months to the National Council on the measures taken to secure Austria's financial centre.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e5620	Deputies! They have read four motions for resolutions which are sufficiently supported and which are included in the negotiations. I would just like to draw your attention to the fact that you did not read the final part of the last motion for a resolution. Capabilities You're gonna do that, please. They have stopped with the words: "... to ensure the attractiveness of the Austrian financial centre, especially with regard to... " – and then there is another page. [[Abg. May. Stadler: It's distributed!]] - It's distributed, good. Those three that you have read are sufficiently supported and are involved in the negotiations. The fourth motion for a resolution reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e5742	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Stummful. – Voluntary time limit: 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e5763	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! If we debate today very intensively the largest economic transaction in post-war history, I do not want to make any of this, just as Mr Vice-Chancellor has already done: I personally do not think this solution is the best, it may be the second or the third best solution. But I have become democratic rules of the game, and I am a follower of the rule of law, and therefore I accept this solution. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, democratic rules mean that we were able to see that, with the exception of the Austrian People's Party, all four groups represented here in Parliament were for the award to Bank Austria. This should be held in the sense of historical truth. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As a follower of the rule of law, I must confess that according to the law of the Finance Ministers alone the award has to be made. Right must remain right, but it is only the second or third best solution for me. However, we accept this solution for the above reasons. Ladies and gentlemen! One thing I should say, too, because I came from this speaker's desk on 13 November. In December, I mentioned certain regulatory principles for my personal assessment. I meant before I knew details at the time, I would not like to go into detail, but I would like to explain two basic positions. The first basic position: We are for privatisation and not for renationalization or localization. Secondly, in the interests of the medium-sized economy and the small savers, I have expressed my support for the fact that it is not an intolerable pool of power. What is the outcome of these two points from today's point of view, ladies and gentlemen? – The starting point is that Bank Austria is currently 70 percent in public possession. The agreement we have reached means that over the next few years these 70 percent will be reduced capitally to less than 20 percent and that the policy will now be withdrawn by reliable solutions. In other words, I can quite agree with this point today. It is an important step towards the withdrawal of policy from the banking landscape, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If I have warned here a month ago in the interest of the medium-sized economy of unbearable power conglomerations and that there is a power agglomerate in which the largest bank is the second largest bank and also the third largest bank, the regional banks, the investment credit, the control bank and perhaps also the PSC are connected, I can say today, ladies and gentlemen: We have politically agreed that the Bank has to separate Austria: first of the GiroCredit, second of the Upper Bank, third of the Bank for Tyrol and Vorarlberg, fourth of the Bank for Styria and Carinthia, fifth of the Control Bank and sixth of the Investment Credit, the CA Shares, and seventh that it will not participate in the privatisation of the Post Savings Bank. This, ladies and gentlemen, is a significant reduction in the combined power, and I can therefore agree with this regulation from this point of view. It means: Privatisation and reduction of power conglomeration. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! But I would also like to say very clearly: What pleases me personally as a financial speaker of my party is that, in the framework of this pact, I believe, we have made really important adjustments to the future of the Vienna financial centre. We have agreed that the Vienna Stock Exchange should be distributed and converted into an AG with the participation of issuers, investors and banks. We have also known that we are reforming the Sparkassen Act, and we want to have an option, especially in the area of liability law: either to waive liability, because there is no equal opportunities in competition, or liability fees. Both are solutions, ladies and gentlemen, to create fair competition among existing carriers in the interests of our money and credit market. This is another point that makes me agree with this consensus and compromise today, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I do not believe that my party only held a very intense discussion in Goldegg a week ago about the future of technology policy. To this end, Director-General Dr. Hochleitner of Siemens Austria was invited, a profound personality from industry, a company that invests highly in technology. Dr. Hochleitner said in our statement in Goldegg that his dream would be another technology billion from the budget so that we could reach international standards. Ladies and gentlemen! This further billion of technology is also fixed in this Pact and is a guarantee of the future for jobs in our country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have to say this so clearly, because the impression in the public is of course often another one. The main message is: Bank Austria got CA, and the ÖVP didn't get anything. . I think we have found a solution, a common solution for the future of our country, for the security of jobs in our country. We have set a course that goes far into the next millennium! Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to say very clearly: I really wish Bank Austria's management for the next few years a lot of success, because the challenge is a huge one. Since some of my previous speakers have said that the great profit payer is the taxpayer, and since many media have written about the "Misterwerk des Dr. Randa" in the last few days, I would like to resist this, ladies and gentlemen, that these are all forecasts. I would be very pleased if we could say in five years: These forecasts have been found. I would be very pleased if we could also say: It was the cheapest solution for the taxpayer, it was the masterpiece of the management of Bank Austria. We are only at the beginning of a huge challenge. We know many examples of history and therefore know that such big deals have often not been successful. Ladies and gentlemen! I wish you every success in the interests of CA, Bank Austria, its customers and our economy – in order not to be misunderstood! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! There is no doubt that the great challenge is still ahead. And we will also observe very closely the withdrawal of policy from Bank Austria in the next few years. We do not want a party to have a bank. However, we do not want to – and I say that in the direction of my friends from the Social Democratic Party, I know with you – that a bank holds a party. That is why we will observe very closely what is actually being done in the coming years in depoliticization, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In other words, Bank Austria is undoubtedly in public light in the next few years. This too is a challenge because it is generally not good for a bank if it appears too much in the public. But I think these are challenges that we must take note of. I say once again with my whole heart: I wish the management, the employees, the works councils of Bank Austria as a whole to see this great work succeed. Ladies and gentlemen! For the sake of what the two government groups have agreed in the last few days, I should now like to make a bold motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Novotny. Under the Rules of Procedure, I must make this request for reading, and I may ask you to pay your attention. [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e5983	The motion for a resolution, which has just been drawn up by Mr Dr Stumm, is in accordance with the rules of procedure and is included in the negotiations. I would also like to say once again that of the four motions for resolutions tabled by the honourable Member. Trattner mentioned earlier, the fourth request to be distributed is also sufficiently supported and involved in the negotiations. Deputies Mag. Trattner referred to an actual correction. - Please, you have the floor. Start with the facts you want to correct.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e6016	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Member Stummvoll here claimed that all the parties represented here in the House – with the exception of the ÖVP – were for Bank Austria. This situation is incorrect. All parties here in the House – with the exception of the ÖVP – were for the highest and best bidder.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e6051	The next speaker is Dr. Kier. – Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e6086	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Federal Chancellor! High house! I can thank Mr Trattner for the fact that it is actually quite true that the four political groups whom he has adopted were stupid for the rule of law – in the "wording" of my colleague. Then: If there is an invitation to tender, rules shall apply in this tender, and the best bidder shall be the best bidder. And there's nothing to help with. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: Best bidder is not the highest bidder!]] I don't want to hear that ÖVP dance again, it's going on my nerves. Only the ÖVP felt that the rule of law did not please it, because it was a matter of avoiding one – and I now use an Austrian Jargon – "black" bank being purchased from a "red". Therefore, the AVZ was suddenly recognized as the evil element. As long as the black First Austrian with the AVS was the potential acquirer, was the problem of municipal liability, the problem of ownershipless savings banks was not a political issue for the ÖVP – and that is remarkable! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] But apparently – and this also explains the indignation up to the verbal derailments – there was a silent agreement: We leave your red bank Austria in peace, for which you leave our first Austrian and black CA in peace. – And, of course, this is a non-complainable claim. This is the classic muzzled claim behind the upholstered doors of the proporze! And if it breaks down on a best offer at once, you're flawless and you lose the version. That was really an unworthy acting. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] If one of the points from the written agreement signed by the Chancellor to Randa is cited in this motion for a resolution, which has been boldly presented by the colleague, in the context of privatisation, namely that in the future the approval of the entire Federal Government is required in a new privatisation law, this is the politicalization of privatisation. If you create a clear privatisation law, you will not need a collegial body federal government, which can only decide unanimously for security reasons – you even have a back door, a pro-primary safeguard clause inside. – That, please, is not privatisation, but that is the politicization of privatisation! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Otherwise, as an Austrian learner, you can't take such a thing. If we had a federal government, which manages the Republic fairly, according to trust and faith, and does not give its attention to the proporz over long distances, then it might be useful to discuss major privatisation steps also in the Federal Government's circle. But to convert ministerial responsibility through a back door into a proportional responsibility, I don't like that! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] In this sense, I have two motions for resolutions tabled by my group. The first concerns a change to the Savings Act. In particular, I would ask colleagues from the ÖVP to take good care of this. This is indeed something which, in your view, must be acceptable to 100 percent. [[Quoted print version removed]] Mr President, I should like to thank you for your support. I hope that you will partly recognize these wordings as those that you have occasionally represented here for years – but for opportunistic reasons – and that are also found in the previous so-called privatisation laws. The next motion for a resolution concerns the creation of an international standard on the right to take over, because, unfortunately, what you would call "small" shareholders has been very much in the background of your philosophy. Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] At the end of the three years: We have experienced three major privatization years in the Federal Government. We have experienced the year 1987, the year 1991 – and now we are experiencing the year 1997. In 1987, the Federal Government adopted a so-called privatisation law, where it has established in its constitutional capacity that public ownership of the electricity supply companies in that country must be 51 percent. Federal Minister Schüssel – not yet at that time Federal Minister in this department, but Member of this House – Mr President, they were all there. As a privatisation law, you have passed a law in which you have laid down that in the field of ETUs only two-thirds of the majority of shares can be entered under the 51-percent limit. The year 1991 has provided us with an empowerment law which had to apply for six years, in order to finally find a reasonably reasonable solution in the area of the credit institution. Now we have the year 1997, and by giving the Federal Government the right to decide finally on something that this House should be about, privatisation policy. – So you can’t make economic policy sadr! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e6195	Mr Delegate Dr. Kier has tabled two motions for resolutions which are sufficiently supported and which are included in the negotiations. Mr Cap, you are speaking as the next speaker. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that I must interrupt you at 5 p.m. to call for urgent procedure. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e6220	I can therefore only use more than the last five minutes for some kind of short-resummation. Point one: The judgment best formulates the "Neue Zürcher Zeitung" of the 13th century. January. There's an article – I quote – that says: The hectic, inexhaustible proposals of the ÖVP, as the CA is to be privatized, did not give the impression that economic expertise was present in the People's Party in abundance. There's nothing to add to that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Point two: What was it about? Should 3 billion schilling be taken into account for a party political solution and for the ambitions of individuals, such as Mr Treichl and Mr Schmidt-Chiari and others, that is to say, that these 3 billion shillings should be withdrawn and donated to the taxpayer? Yes or no? – In times of the savings package, this was, of course, impossible and failed with the resistance of the Social Democrats. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This is already an allusion to the black and blue "Brutus Festival", where it is so beautiful in the speech of Mark Anton: What people do is they survive. – Perhaps you are no longer Klubobmann, Mr. Khol, and you are no longer party chairman of the ÖVP, Dr. Schüssel, but: If you had survived, this would have been far beyond your era to the detriment of the Austrian economy and the Austrian banking industry. - But we prevented that. And I think it's good. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If this has been a signal that you have found on the black-blue paper under point 6 a steel pact formulation that has read: This political consensus exists regardless of the decision of the Federal Minister of Climate at Causa CA, then I can only say: Good night! once a black and blue government comes, then you will say: There can be the flood, there can be earthquakes, there can be anything possible happen, we will go through thick and thin. But that's just on paper. - Thank God! For you were then sent out from the liberals at the back door of the ministry, because you were ashamed of having met with you. That's the truth! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What was the real goal? – to make a European competitive bank. It can only be said with regret that it was the subject of Pradler Ritterspiele. That's what you're responsible for. If not earlier, then at this time you have finally played out your economic competence, my dear friends of the ÖVP, and you are right with it, because the alternatives were anyway not present today. Apart from the palm tree with the monkey and your hair-growing agent, as you need anyway, Mr Stadler – you should rub this in a bit – you really have nothing to show today. [[on the bank of the Abg. May. Stadler stands for a bottle]] [[Rejoicing at the SPÖ]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] So I want to devote the last minute before 5 pm to Klubobmann Khol, which I want to protect somewhere, of course, because he is a friend of well-elected words, a educated man, every now and then it comes to him. But I can comfort him: Dionysos talked about the puke already 2 500 years ago – however, in a comedy, in a comedy by Aristophanes, which has given a significant name: "The frogs." [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] This Dionysos – that's why I don't want to quote you at all – says something else. He works up the lead of the clubman Khol and probably also the vice chancellor, who is there – directed to the blues –: Call me the path where we get to Hades the fastest. That's the underworld. – And I can only say: Just keep going, you're on the best way there!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e6322	I am now interrupting this debate so that we can come to the debate on the urgent question at 5 p.m. The session was suspended for a minute.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e6346	I'll start the interrupted session again. Request for urgent procedure by Mr Dipl.-Vw. Dr. Dieter Lukesch, Jakob Auer, Hermann Kröllund Colleagues to the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs concerning the macroeconomic consequences of the acquisition by the Bank of Austria of the CA shares (1728/J)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e6389	High house! We are now entering – at 5 p.m. – the urgent debate on written question 1728/J. Mrs Petrovic spoke on business treatment. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e6413	Mr President. It has been distributed here a urgent request in the hall, from which the item of the negotiation is not really clearly recognizable for us. A number of handwritten, partially illegible improvements and breakthroughs have been made, in which one does not recognize what they refer to. We would like to clarify what this urgent question refers to and also clarify with regard to the signature services or whether the improvements have been made by those Members who also submit this request.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e6439	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I would like to state the following on your question: The written question was sent to the Bureau, and the Bureau or the Directorate of Parliament has made sure that all copies, all photocopies, which have been transmitted to the clubs and the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs, and also those copies distributed in the House correspond exactly to the original. This is what I believe we have done correctly. If there are copies different from the original, they do not come from the copy distributed by the Bureau. I would like to hold on to this. [[Abg. We cannot, however, read it, Mr President.]] We now come to deal with this question, which has been distributed to all the Members of this House in the meantime. A reading by the writer is not sufficient. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e6595	I give the floor to Mr Dr. Lukesch as a questioner on the grounds of the question. Please, honourable Member. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that your contribution to the debate should not last longer than 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e6616	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! High house! In today's debate of this special meeting on the sale of CA to Bank Austria, the direct results of the negotiations, especially in their short-term impact, particularly in their impact on the banking sector in Austria. However, this issue also has – and this is what the urgent question is about, and at this point I can address the question of Mrs Petrovic – a macroeconomic facet, a macroeconomic importance and, essentially, a long-term structural impact on the entire Austrian economy. That is why we are asking the Minister for Economic Affairs to inform us of the economic and long-term effects of this step, which the Federal Government has now put forward, and of the far-reaching consequences. Mr Cap has once again tried to make these very intense conflicts between the coalition partners the subject of his enthusiastic views. You can go on this way, Mr Cap, but I would like to say something very serious to my colleagues from Social Democracy: In the course of this very hot debate - I am saying this as a parliamentarian and I am glad to be able to look into the eyes of the President of the National Council - we have experienced that a member of this Federal Government and also the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany - have formally meant the solution they interpret from the mandate of the Privatisation Act, regardless of the opinion of a majority decision in this House. I see a certain danger to our democracy, to our parliamentaryism. It cannot be said that a majority decision by a Parliament – whatever it may have done – is simply called irrelevant by members of the Federal Government and is thus pushed away. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: Then please come to the matter, to the request!]] I now come to the matter - and I have also started by saying this - of the structural effects, of the importance of this measure and of this decision, of this sale in the current form, and of the importance for Austria's economic location, or I would like to address my questions to the Minister for Economic Affairs. Of course, Austria's economic location has a large number of strengths, but on the other hand it still has its weaknesses. If we look at the strength-weak profile, it must be clear to us that Austria has become an internationally recognized, excellent tax location for our businesses and companies in recent years thanks to the economic policy of the Federal Government. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The debate on tax reforms, which is now being held in Germany, started very massively three or four years ago and led to a particularly good result. The fact that there is social peace in our country is, even though the opposition – in particular the Freedom Party, but also the Liberal Forum – that does not want to be true, is also an advantage of the location, which, thanks to the social partnership, prevails. This too is one of the strengths of our economic profile. The productivity of the labour force in our country is also an advantage to us before many other economies thanks to a good system of vocational training, both in the field of secondary schooling and in the dual training system. And to the Greens: Also, in our as in hardly any other country, we have succeeded in combining environmental and quality of life in a very positive way, one of the strengths of Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Wabl: Ask the Minister something!]] But, of course, we also have clear weaknesses, no doubt, such as the duration of the procedure in investment law. We have problems through too rigid working time regimes, which are currently under intense negotiation. But, therefore, today's question to the Minister for Economic Affairs, we also have weaknesses in the privatisation strategy that has been practised so far. Federal Minister! This decision-making, including the 17 conditions under which this sale will now be carried out, also gives us the opportunity to change the privatisation strategy in Austria. I would like to know about this and get information from you. There are, as admittedly, also weaknesses in the Austrian financial centre. We have weaknesses in the capital requirements of our companies. We cannot deal with these alone by means of a corresponding tax policy. We also need risk capital formation, we need capitalisation from external financing for our companies in order to make them quite stable against short-term and economic impacts. In this respect, including capital formation in our country, this sale has far-reaching consequences with the 17 conditions attached to the sale. There are, of course, also weaknesses in the research and innovation strategy, in our country's innovation policy. I don't need to repeat and emphasize this as a scientist. – But the proceeds we now achieve from the CA sale for the budget should not only be used in the short term for renovation, but also, to a considerable extent, must be used to run long-term site security particularly in the field of research and innovation technologies, thus creating and making new, long-term effective human capital in our country effective. This is my appeal to the Federal Government. I am very excited about the replies of the Minister for Economic Affairs in this regard, because, unlike you, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, I have in mind the long-term structural effects of this step. There is nothing to do with short-term budget maximisation, and then in a few years again to note that overall performance, overall success for the Austrian economy, has not been achieved to the suspected extent. We will then return to the taxpayer, and that is what we want to avoid. Only if these agreed 17 points are actually implemented can the present solution be more than the maximisation of the budget yield, which is also significant, but certainly does not correspond to a best solution. Because the size of the bank alone – as I would like to appeal to Mr Novotny – is not all, of course, the scale of the current solution alone. It must also be taken into account whether this size may not only increase the level of risk. Perhaps it would be better to diversify the risk and, in our country, to have several areas similarly strongly represented in the banking sector. We need to change the investor behaviour in our country – and the current decision-making process of the Federal Government also gives us the opportunity to do so! Internationally, it is really incomprehensible that savings in Austria amount to 1,500 billion schillings are on savings books and no direct participations in companies take place via securities purchases. With this CA sale to Bank Austria and the 17 points of our motion for a resolution, we now have the opportunity to ensure that, by taking due account of small investors, minority shareholders, this investor behaviour in favour of the long-term security of Austrian businesses and jobs in these enterprises, changes. We also need to ensure - and I also ask you, Minister of Economic Affairs, that the solution now adopted is in line with European competition rules. For example, if there were a breach of the rules on competition in the area of mergers or in the field of aid, the argument of European competitiveness would be irrelevant from the outset by the current solution. – These are also issues that are, of course, discussed in a massive and vehement manner in the public. We also need to ensure that the know-how of the employees in CA is not lost unilaterally and at their expense, so that eventually any rationalizations do not only affect the CA sector with its registered workforce. I would also like to stress, once again, that a significant part of this sales revenue is now being implemented into new investments, in investment in research, in innovation activities of our companies and, finally, in new impulses for the export economy, which can be seen in a direct context with this CA solution. Ladies and gentlemen! In recent weeks, we have had very intense discussions about the future path of CA in the context of such a bank solution. We have also experienced how our coalition partner risked having only the short-term impact on the budget, but not to observe the long-term dimension. [[Abg. Blünegger: We have experienced that the ÖVP has even fallen by lying down!]] I also believe that the tenacity of Wolfgang Schüssel and his negotiating team, the tenacity of the ÖVP – quite certainly supported and in parallel with the same or similar considerations of the Freedom Party – have been rewarded because we now have the opportunity not only to speed up a significant amount of budget, but also to implement and implement structural changes not only in the banking sector, but also in the entire financing area of the Austrian economy. A lot of porcelain has been smashed, that's clear to me. I believe, however, that if it is possible to implement the intentions connected with this divestment, including the conditions of sale, we have achieved an optimal level for our economy and for its central financing sector. I would therefore ask the Minister of State to address, in his opinion, the long-term structural effects and the effects that we have envisaged as positive accompanying measures. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e6703	The Federal Minister for Economic Affairs has referred to the subject-matter of an opinion. Please, Minister, you have the floor. Your speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e6724	Mr President. High house! In view of the fact that the questions in question contain a number of questions which are not entirely in my own field of competence, I would like to use the opportunity provided by the Rules of Procedure to make a general statement first and to submit the answers in writing to the individual questions within the framework of my competence. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hans Helmut Moser.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The main background of these questions relates to the longer-term macroeconomic effects or effects of the consequences of these 17 points or of the strategies set out therein. I would therefore like to begin with what I have already said twice here in the House, namely why I have expressed my personal concern as a co-negotiator, as a partner of the Minister of Finance responsible in the coalition, from the outset. These concerns were essentially based on the following points: On the one hand, I have said that in my many activities abroad, I am constantly kept in mind that privatisation in Austria is only done in very slow steps, that is to say, slow and partly sold to institutions which cannot be described as a real private enterprise. In this context, I have explained or expressed the expression that I do not want to agree with the fact that, after a phase of nationalization and government in the field of industry, we are now landing in the context of an understanding - written with "dt". I can remind you that I said this here in the house. The second point was that there is less and less understanding abroad that in many Austrian institutions, including in the economic world, there are still institutions such as group meetings before organ meetings. Foreign investors can only shake their heads over it. I have therefore also said that a real privatisation can also be understood as a depoliticization. My third objection concerns competition policy in two ways: firstly, that we in Austria could have two problems in the direction of the European Union without any accompanying measures in which the Bank Austria, without any accompanying points, would have a planned award. Problem No. One was at the time the aid limit in small countries rather than in large instances, i.e. the problem of the state aid character of public authorities in the banking sector. The second problem is the degree of concentration and the consequent assessment of the economic and competition consequences. We have to see that, in some special segments, the association of these two banks – and I am allowed to go a little further later on – brings increased concentration trends, such as in the area of investment financing, in the field of control banks or also in the sector of the savings bank sector, through the change of ownership at the GiroCredit. Finally, I have also pointed out that, especially in times when this House and the Government are committed to dealing more carefully with employment effects, we must also pay this increased attention. I would remind you in this context that it was my colleague, the Minister of Finance, who stated in the Federal Council that the experts who had to assess the projects submitted assumed that mergers of this section would necessarily bring about 6 to 12 per cent of the reduction of personnel in order to achieve the strategic objectives. One of the criticisms we have to add was that we have to consider in the longer term whether Austria is going to be without a real capital market in the long term, because the current capital market in Austria – as other speakers have said today – is linked to the smell of a relatively small association with insider effects. Ladies and gentlemen! If I follow what has now been stated in the negotiations as a result, I would see the following longer-term approaches. In the order of my arguments once again to the privatisation argument: In the present case, it was very difficult for me to exercise a co-negotiating role under the premise of the Privatisation Act in 1991, which transferred responsibility to a person responsible for the best possible exploitation. This was not the problem, but I was negotiating for a group of governments, and it has been shown that it is very difficult to initiate a balanced negotiation on this basis. I therefore also think that it would be useful to repeat this dispute and dispute on a case-by-case basis, but I consider it important for the international assessment of the Austrian market in the longer term as regards privatisations, that there is now an agreement that both calls for tender and award are dealt with in the Federal Government and that it should be reported to the main committee of the National Council. I also note that, in view of the fact that an effective, effective Austrian capital market is to be discussed at a later stage, we are ensuring that this is actually done. The worst thing would be to have a capital market without rescheduling. On the point of decommunisation or depoliticization. As always, the outcome of the negotiations is as follows: It must be noted that this brought things into motion that were not possible in another, a federal area after a country election, a municipal council election, namely a longer-term decommissioning of the shares of the AVZ. High house! Mr President. If one speaks here about the stages, about the numbers of the limits used, then it must not be forgotten that the Austrian capital market is not yet an abundantly floating tree, but that it actually only - although relatively many - has growthable branches. That is to say, we could probably not allied the sizes of more than 4 to 5 billion schilling from the stockpiling or capital increase title alone. Therefore, this temporary phased decomposition occurred. In any case, it means a separation from a political family tree and, in the longer term, an alimentation of the capital market. Ladies and gentlemen! A few words on the longer-term competition problem. I'll start with the maybe easier problem. When the question of the level of concentration arose, it was initially to consider whether the European Union or the Austrian antitrust law was responsible. In both areas, after studying both European competition literature and competition practice, the conclusion is that the degree of concentration achieved by the Bank Austria from the acquisition of the CA is inevitable. In any case, these measures will be discussed, regardless of whether they are being dealt with in Brussels or in Vienna. There is therefore the agreement that the GiroCredit, the third largest bank in this field, must be suspended at the same time. It has also been agreed that the shares in two very important banks in this area – namely investment credit and control bank, whose shares Bank Austria is now receiving by the CA purchase, thus reaching a share of around 80 percent. The GiroCredit shares are not taken into account; these are included in the sale of the GiroCredit itself. I would also like to point out that it is also regionally important for the competition and competition debate in Austria, in particular, that it has succeeded in reaching agreement with the acquirer to sell regional banks even in the run-up to any competitive constraints. Mr President. High house! I think that in order to make this clear, not for "asset stripping", but I would make it positive: These are competitive divestments which ensure that the competitive landscape in the banking and financial sectors is more balanced. It remains to be considered – and this will still be discussed at these levels of competition – how far this makes sense in the area of investment banking. On the question of liability. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! There is a very interesting background in the European Union. For years, if not for decades, employees of the European Commission, the responsible Directorate-General, have been waiting to be able to decide finally on the issues of the state aid character of municipal or national liability for financial instruments. All previous attempts have failed in the resistance of the two major countries in which this liability plays a major political role, namely Germany and Italy. It was just too symptomatic that, in the case of small Austria, a movement was set up in the Commission, at least by means of information from Austria, and the question of this type of aid was to be re-examined. We have tried to avoid this now by bringing two variants into line with the Savings Act, on the one hand the possibility of renouncing liability – I believe that many banking institutions, as they are configured today, do not need this liability either – and on the other hand, the possibility of compensation, a liability commission. In the case of the liability commission, there was a discussion about the necessary amount of this commission. I think we have agreed on the formula in the analysis of international experience that it should be in a relationship with interest savings through the guarantee, with the extent to be determined by an international expert. I believe that we have made decisions in both possible spheres of competition or have put forward proposals that we must now implement. I have experienced many times in the past and have experienced it in a Supervisory Board itself, in which 49 percent of minority shareholders were represented only by a representative that it is unthinkable in a developed capital market to meet standard rules for the treatment of minority shareholders. I admit that much of what has now been said has not been addressed before the intensive negotiations have begun. It is only now that we have said that this deal, because it is one of the greatest in history, must at least be taken on board in order to achieve one of the greatest breakthroughs on some structural economic policy issues. In order to protect minority shareholders, not only can it remain with what has now been agreed in the agreement, namely to pay the minority shareholders – in this case the CA’s minority shareholders through the acquisition by Bank Austria – but we must take action in the medium term – "in the medium term" should in this case mean more than two years in the case of shares – that we provide for fair treatment of minority shareholders, which would have to reach the proportional representation in the supervisory bodies. – I say this as a private opinion, so to speak, as an expert who has the pleasure of speaking to you here. Ladies and gentlemen! Another important point – I say quite openly – is the following: I grew up in the thinking school of the CDU/CSU’s Ahlen programme – the CDU – in which the wide distribution of property also played a major role in the workers’ hands. We have not achieved very great progress in Austria after relatively fruitless attempts in the 1950s. Today, in Europe, we certainly have one of the lowest proportions of the labour force in possession of shares. Therefore, the question of a wide distribution of shares on the one hand and, on the other hand, a significant participation by employees in their respective companies is a priority for me. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] So I feel it's another one, I'd almost say, In this area, which has been strengthened so far, the fact that, on the one hand, the bundle of bank-austria shares of the federal government parked by the postal investment company is to be awarded by a broad scatter, and on the other hand, that the offer made by the employees of CA to buy up to 500 million shares has now been accepted by the purchaser. Thirdly, ladies and gentlemen, on the field of employment security - I am now at the end, Mr President -: We know that some people in a take-over think only of how many thousand people have to be "tended" as this means "beautiful" in order to bring about the corresponding productivity. I believe that such an approach would lead to absolutely destructive consequences in the present case. Firstly, because such a procedure would have led to a total de motivating of CA's high-quality workforce stock and manager's stock and thus also to negative effects on Bank Austria. First point. Second point: As a result of the success of ensuring the existence of the CA Institute for the next few years, it is also likely that there will not be the possible departures from the circle of the Top 2 000 who, as a general rule, want to use two banks, which are independent of each other, rather than almost domestic banks. And thirdly, we have been assured that no direct terminations will take place beyond the natural ending. I would like to say quite frankly that it will probably be of crucial importance for the motivation, for the performance of credit institutions staff, to the area from which the first post-employments will come from the top-level staff. Finally, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am delighted that we have succeeded in securing two more billions for research funding or some export support from the proceeds. Since we all know that the highest multiplier effect comes from a Schilling project invested in research, these two research billions guarantee that in these years Austria will probably come to one of the top points in European research statistics from one of the lower places in Europe's research statistics, which leads to industrial research. I consider this to be one of the most important breakthroughs that we have achieved together in the longer term. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If, by the end of the summer, it finally succeeds in a joint effort, to which I really invite all the parties represented in Parliament, to make an institution from the Austrian Stock Exchange, an association of bankers, in which investors and issuers are present and bank representatives, then we could say: We have a proper stock exchange, we will be able to share the stock exchange on privatisations, also on the predictable stockpiling of the stock management and the Vienna holding so enough that we may be able to say to the Austrian savers – in order to come to your last point, Mr. Deputies – that: Don't run that everything is sold out – buy it! And so that they can do this without too much risk, it will still be necessary to find innovative instruments of the so-called wide spread stock. I am thinking, for example, of a share in which a guarantee can only be made for five years' retention. These would be things that are good tools elsewhere beyond all tax promotion and could lead to success. In my view, Mr President, this has been the medium- and longer-term aspects of those things which are contained in the 17 points which, if implemented in good time, can also show their positive effects.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e6897	Thank you, Minister of State, for your opinion. We are now entering the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, under the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes, with the total speaking time of a club 25 minutes. I shall be the first speaker to give to the honourable Member. Look at the word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e6925	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Cap – this was the preliminary remark – had meant that the SPÖ would have prevented the taxpayer from losing the budget by 2 billion schilling. If I recall the so-called Landesbank Rehabilitation Act from 1982, which ultimately authorized the Minister of Finance, on behalf of the Republic of the then Landesbank, which is part of the predecessor of today's Bank Austria, to make available the interest-rate loss for the claims that have been made, so literally, in the maximum amount of 3 billion schilling, I wonder who actually paid the 2 billion surplus. This question should be answered here. It is obvious that the federal government has pre-financed it in advance in order to receive it today. Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased that, following these well-founded statements by our Federal Minister, Farnleitner, the Nebula, on economic policy aspects, has highlighted the consequences. And I am also pleased – I am expressing this – about how he formulated the two additional research billions that could be negotiated. Here, investment is made in the future and not just for budget coverage. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr. Dr. Haider! You have in quite a bit more remarkable – and you are, no one will dispute, rhetorically gifted and often show acting talent – and positive ways are trying to explain your views here today. And you have meant talking about a crisis: about the employment situation in Austria, about inflation, about economic data. There would be some comparisons with European countries. If desired, such comparative studies can be provided in terms of the number of unemployed in Austria and many other competitors in the European environment. There would be quite interesting comparisons, such as Austrian inflation, compared to that in other European countries. It could also be considered how the Austrian budget recovery was assessed abroad. It was presented as quite successful. In a 1996 issue of the "financial news" it is noted that crises look different. Applying the term "economic crisis" to Austrian conditions would be the same as confusing a slight cold with plague and cholera. – As far as your remarks are concerned. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In recent weeks, a crisis-like activity has been noticeable. But I'm saying, Every crisis is also a chance. And this ultimately also applies to the result that has come about. This finding that every crisis has an opportunity also applies if you look at 1994 or 1995. It was the EIA that ensured the 1995 margins for the current budget success in 1996. And today's Federal Minister for Finance Climate can be quite proud – legitimately – of the budget success as the highest säckelwart. But I don't think anyone who has set the course needs to remember that again. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been said by previous speakers of my party that the offer of the EA-Generali consortium or also a wide distribution of the CA shares over the imaginative stock exchange would have been shown. Ladies and gentlemen! It would have been an Austrian solution that foreign partners would have been less than 20 percent, a real privatisation, and no consortium member would have had decisive influence by the public authorities. Not, as Haider says, everything out, ladies and gentlemen, and for that the FPÖ in. That's not privatisation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This solution would also be better suited to a balanced banking structure – with CA being maintained as an independent bank. In the end, CA would have First ideally supplemented, not to forget the wide distribution of shares. In general terms, this would be the most positive solution. Why we, the EIA, agree to this solution, as it has now been agreed, has been said. I do not need to repeat it – but three points again, three cornerstones of this but late agreement: The adoption of a comprehensive new privatisation law on structural and employment aspects, the delivery of the CA shares to the special financing institutions Control Bank and Investment Credit Bank and the non-participation of Bank Austria in PSK privatisation. One would have had – and I say that in the direction of the consortium – years of time to present a proper, even a financially sound offer. If you really want something, you will also have to show a certain degree of risk, i.e. take a certain sum into your hands. I understand that Federal Minister for Climate Change is pleased with the approximately 17 billion Schilling. But with all joy: Whoever last laughs will be decisive. And so that joy lasts longer, ladies and gentlemen, than at the moment, it is to be remembered that much has to be done to implement these 17 points. Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to see banking secrecy adapted to the Swiss standard in addition to the implementation of the 17 points envisaged. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That's where I have a request, you just need to vote!]] In Switzerland, a judicial judgment is necessary to open the accounts, and with us the initiation of a financial penalty is sufficient. This would also be urgently necessary for banks and competition in Europe. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It should also be discussed whether the National Bank's minimum reserve would not be adapted to the European level, because it would lead to distortions of competition in relation to foreign currency loans. The stock exchange problem is also to be seen in connection with the exchange rate tax. It is a pity that voluntary consolidation was ultimately not included in the BWG. And it is already the question of whether there should be any changes here, because this is being handled more strictly in Austria than the EU requires. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, in all the critical debate, in all the critical assessment by the FPÖ: If I see, ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party, your argumentarium which you have distributed to your officials, I note that almost all the points you wish could be negotiated by us. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] That means you could agree.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e7007	The next speaker was Mr Heindl. Please, honourable Member, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e7029	Mr President. Federal Minister! I am glad that a little laugh can be laughed again. I am even more glad that we are talking about today, tomorrow and the day after, and not about what has been in the last three weeks. I have to say honestly: This country and all of us who are active in politics and the economy have never done well. I just want to deal with a few things so they don't stand in the room like that. Mr Lukesch! I appreciate you as a quiet colleague in our committees. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Well, it's not that quiet!]] Oh, yeah, he's always real. – Only I did not fully understand that you are getting on to the accusation of the danger of democracy. I would just ask you – you are a member of the Financial Committee – to: Read the report of the Financial Committee on the Authorization Act 1991 or the corresponding Protocol! I did this because I really thought: Do I really believe that our political approach, that of the climate, is correct? Read this report through, and you'll be two important... – But it hasn't changed yet. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Parliament's opinion can also change!]] They're talking about something that could change once. I'm talking about whether he did the right thing. I can only judge that. And I can only ask you: Read the Minutes through – I would use too much of my speaking time if I quoted the two most important passages to you now – and then you will see exactly that the procedure of my colleague, climate, was correct. I have been surprised that a point has not yet been raised. Perhaps this will be the case, but the debate on CA is the item on the agenda 1, I think. We should now talk about something else, but perhaps I am a little old-fashioned, if I think we should look at the content of the item on the agenda a little bit more. I am very glad – whoever is responsible – that the Institute Morgan – is not an Austrian institute; I am convinced that we have a few – have worked out this whole process. I do not understand at all why we do not deal with the basis of decision. These are the objective criteria that this institution has used. Now I can be of the opinion, like Mr Farnleitner or colleagues from your party: The consortium would have been better. This is quite legitimate, I believe – and I did not just go back and forth between Stammersdorf and Perchtoldsdorf in my life –, as simple as Mr Farnleitner, Mr. Federal Minister, it is not that one says: Now it becomes a little critical because Bank Austria has taken over the CA shares. You're right. In the future, what they're doing will be crucial. I share the view that the heavy part is coming only now. That's clear. We have the decline of the Soviet Union behind us. [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] We are experiencing the development in the Middle East. And we have joined the EU. This is very, very important for our export industry – and that is why I mentioned it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] Now I'm coming back to Bank Austria. Why? Please ask what problems our companies often have in connection with financing of large export projects! I share your opinion – I am with you again, Minister of State: We need to increase our export quota even more. Everyone – if I interpret the experts correctly – each percentage point more export ratio is about 1 percent more employment. There are still potentials. I am deeply convinced that we can achieve 2 or 3 percent increase here. This meant more than 60,000 to 100,000 employees – usually with high qualifications, with good merit – with all the macroeconomic consequences for our economy. There is no doubt that a strong banking landscape – we both know – plays a major role. I do not share the concern that has always been expressed in the last days and weeks: Now some of them are afraid because they are at risk of financing in CA or in Bank Austria or elsewhere. I even see great opportunities there. We both know that a large group of Austrian banks has been asked over and over again in the case of larger financing, whether they run through the EIB or the EPRD. I stay there – I repeat –: Of course, what they will make of it is crucial. Where do we have to start – and I say this critically to us – what does need to be done next to the bank structural adjustment? It is very important to bring about a change of consciousness in many. Many of our compatriots and therefore many who are potential young entrepreneurs are constantly living with the trauma: Isn't that much too risky to make yourself independent? If we have the basis in this country at all, are the appropriate conditions given at all? What do I mean? I mean, it is time – and I am very glad that the review procedure for the trade regulations is under way – that we are finally facilitating access to business activities. But not only that, ladies and gentlemen, but we must also give a conscious boost. That's very important. I took the mirror with me. And there you can see that this problem is not just an Austrian problem, when the editors overlap with a writer such as "Help against unemployment". In my opinion, a sentence in this article is essential – I quote –: In view of the miscarriage of jobs – Germany is talking about – it is becoming increasingly clear that lower taxes, lower additional labour costs and more flexibility in collective bargaining alone are not enough. - Quote. At any conclusion, the editors – and that is what we always say: We need young entrepreneurs! And there is something like that, but we still need to improve the climate and the framework conditions, then there will be more that chooses the way into independence and helps to improve the employment situation in Austria. The current employment situation, our unemployment figures are undoubtedly not satisfactory, although we – and I agree with Mr Lukesch’s statement here – are still relatively good in relation to other countries. Nevertheless, that is not satisfactory. An important step in this context is the three technology billions. I just wish that some of these funds also go to the export industry. Federal Minister! I am pleased that we have completed the China project. This is undoubtedly a signal, because we need to do much more in this region. Just, I'll stick with it. More needs to be done, not only in the Far East, there are also areas in the Mediterranean where our export industry can grow. As before my reference to the collapse of the Soviet Union was smiled a little: In the countries of the former Soviet Union, we are even more demanding. I am firmly convinced that the export industry has even more opportunities at our doorstep. In this context, it is very important that we continue the changes in our education policy. This is where we are called for. There is still more to be done here. The colleges, the training with languages, these are beginnings. What we need for positive development in these areas, in the employment field, in the export industry, is to create the appropriate schooling conditions to make the most urgent conditions – including in the field of continuing training, in the field of apprentices. Then Austria's economic location is still good and secure, and then this development will also have a positive impact in the banking sector. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e7094	Ladies and gentlemen! Before I may speak to the honourable Member. Mr Stadler, I would ask you to understand that I have a brief greeting. You may have registered that yesterday and today in the House a seminar organized by the OSCE on "Parliamentaryism and Democracy" takes place. And I am very pleased that I can welcome you here this evening in the lodges of fellow Members from other parliaments. These are parliamentarians from the Central Asian and South Caucasian states. I would like to welcome you very warmly to the House, and I hope that the dialogue between us and you will be a more fruitful and progressive one. [[General condolences.]] We are now continuing the debate on the urgent question, and I am now giving the honourable Member the next floor. Stadler the word. Mr President, you have asked for a voluntary time limit of 8 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e7137	Mr President. High house! First of all, it is remarkable that the Austrian People's Party is today submitting a urgent request to its own Minister – precisely that your own party friends did not ask you, Mr. Federal Minister, what your first name is. So ridiculous are the questions that have been asked here – only to prevent what the SPÖ has announced from being discussed today with the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs, who is currently responsible for serial blames. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Farnleitner speaks to Abg. I don't know.]] Mr. Federal Minister – if I Your Tête-à-tête can interfere with your social partners for a moment! They are currently knowing not to envy God. We have the habit, Mr President, that, when a minister is addressed in the debate, we should not disturb him by your Tête-à-têtes. But I don't want to bother you, I just want to hide the speaking time. Federal Minister! Perhaps your party has provided you with a bear service, because as it looks, you will not avoid the debate on the Mautpickerl emblazonement, it is more likely that there will be more problems every week. Now it turns out that the toll pickers are not holding, and the Chikago contract is also very interesting. In the end, the Hoge Haus would like to know who had taken part in this, why the order went to Chikago at all – which is, by the way, the whole of Austria is currently asking itself. But, Minister of State, be present: This debate is still coming to your attention! Mr Heindl! Of course, the debate we are having today is one and the same as it is to be made on the statements of the Federal Chancellor and the Deputy Chancellor. The theme that the ÖVP has chosen for its rescue maneuver for Minister Farnleitner is the same, which is why we had to meet at this special meeting today. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I was very happy to see that you are currently offering some coal soup in Parliament's cafeteria, which is what your own clubman has been cooking for weeks. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Very healthy!]] The coal soup doesn't take anyone, Mr. Rudi told me that the coal soup doesn't want anyone. They offered them over there yesterday, there she didn't want anyone, and today she doesn't want anyone in the high house, this coal soup at the sensational price of 28 p. ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] High house! I know you value health. Mr Göerg said that you are a party with a bad breath. But there is a good blue water, ladies and gentlemen. Try it with blue mouthwater, I'll dilute it to you! [[The speaker pours blue mouthwater into a glass of water.]] [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Very "levelful"!]] Mr Schwarzenberger, try this! You can get rid of your mouth smell that partyobmann Görg complained about yesterday. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schwarzenberger.]] If we can make an offer to Mr Schwarzenberger: Try it with a blue mouthwater. The oral smell of the Austrian People's Party is indeed a lot of improvement. I will also tell you why, Mr Schwarzenberger. For the Lord stupidly goes out here and speaks... [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Very "levelful"!]] Tell your Mr. Görg! He said yesterday, you're a party with mouth smell. And I'm free to add this to the "Herzblatt" method of Mr. Fendrich: You are a party with mouth smell sitting on the coconut palm and complaining from there that the German Chancellor is to vomit – and you are also world champions in the fall, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP. This is a championship of the Austrian People's Party. Because I'm just at the crasher quality: I don't know why you're so aging about this brochure. [[The speaker shows the brochure "ÖVP – Die Umfaller".]] The whole Austrian People's Party is ageing over this brochure. Look Once again, how dear this brochure has become! It is far behind what you have done as a recent crasher on Saturday night towards your coalition partner. He has drawn you over the table in the autumn, that today Members of your own party are sorry about how much the head of the party has fallen by. For weeks your vice chancellor has sounded: A sale of CA shares to Bank Austria does not come into question! And today, the Austrian People's Party has said that it would never have threatened with ministerial support. Mr Vice-Chancellor said that this would give parliamentary consequences – or am I quoting him wrong here? There will be parliamentary consequences for the Minister of Finance when the CA package goes to Bank Austria, he said. You threatened with Prime Minister's charge, you threatened with parliamentary consequences. We have said that there will be parliamentary consequences if the Minister does not comply with the law that you have decided, ladies and gentlemen. I don't know what the mouth smell is like now. The mouth smell is present to you, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP. The bankruptcy remains to you that you have fallen down, the bankruptcy remains that you have taken your mouth to full, and now you don't know how to clean your teeth again after you were pulled over the table on Saturday night by the coalition partner. I would like to give you an example of depoliticization, as it was today so noblely proclaimed by Mr Stumbling, who signed this paper, which, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, does not yet mean anything, because it can happen to you in a few weeks, that the ÖVP tells you that the signature was not meant as signature at all. That's how we did it. It can also happen to you that you are trying to send you out from the back door of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, just as we did. Our club director even wanted to prevent him from going to the toilet so that the ORF could not film him. That is how it can be done if you rely on a signature from the Austrian People's Party, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This Austrian People's Party endorses a paper that says, for example, that the small shareholders should be sold with 850 S minus 15 percent. Federal Minister! Calculate once after: 850 S less 15 percent – that is 723 p. Do you know that this is below the price? Make Take a look at the newspapers: 730 S is the current course. You're giving the small shareholders worse than the usual course value that can be read in the newspaper! The second example is the legal-state deal, which Mr Stummfully describes as a great deal, with the reversing. If you accept this 17-point programme, which you have included here and which is to be decided today, you will find it difficult to violate the Constitution and the Austrian legal order if you implement it. You can only deal with a billion deal back with a Constitutional Act. Forced can They are no longer the Bank Austria to issue this package – whether the SPÖ stands for the pact or not. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to give you an example where the ÖVP has recognised with us that the largest bank in the country, namely from the National Bank, should finally remove the parties. You can't find a sentence of that in your program today. I read in the APA with great amazement that Michael Häupl, for the SPÖ and Bernhard Görg, determine the trustees for the ÖVP. Ladies and gentlemen! So much on the subject of depoliticization. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] – You will find a completely depoliticized trustee. They will probably drive it up in any monastery, as I know the two gentlemen. For the innocence of the land is sought. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Mr. Nice!]] Mr. Nice to have? Yes, this is a particularly "independent" and "innocent" trustee who is at the disposal. Federal Minister! You no longer take yourself seriously if you try to sell such a thing to the Austrian public. You need mouthwater, believe me! You need a proper blue mouthwater if you want to be taken seriously again in the Austrian public. You can't sell anyone in this country that on Saturday at night you didn't fall by the Socialists to be pulled over the table! And today, you're trying to sell the Austrian public the opposite of what you've taken with us. That's how it looks, Minister of State! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That is why I say to you: What we have developed here as a brochure is harmless, sweet, nice and friendly compared to what you are currently offering to the Austrian public.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e7286	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Hazelsteiner. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e7308	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Maybe we can get back from the oral hygiene to the banking landscape. If I have correctly understood the meaning of this urgent request, or even the special session, then it is, in a simplified way, as follows: The ÖVP says there would have been a much better solution, ours with the EA generali. The solution that has been taken is overall bad, but because 17 points have been met, it has at least become acceptable at once, in order not to say good. – That, very much simplified, it is. I understand that, after such a defeat – and I simply can't say otherwise – as a party needs at least to lubricate and kitten the wounds, and therefore does this "event" here. Federal Minister! I would also like to address these 17 points which you have negotiated and which you have said are the merits of the ÖVP that they have been agreed in this way. Point number one: The withdrawal of the state from politics and from Bank Austria by the privatisation of the AVZ. Today, we already have 1st place. Agenda item. What I would like to resist you is the following: What has moved you to agree to these deadlines for God’s sake?- Oh, my God! Five plus two years – this is an eternity in economic life! They know that in five plus two years, a board, owner, trustee or non-fidelity, a member of the association has every opportunity to set up the structure as it should serve him for the next 20 years. With this, I believe, you have not done a good job for your party, but also for those concerned. This would have been reversible at least: Two plus five years – I liked it more than I did. Five plus two years – this is not a performance! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Federal Minister! I would really appreciate it if we could talk about how to guarantee jobs in the credit institution, but at the same time agree on their influence – they call it De-Investment. It is quite clear that there will be unloving job consequences in the credit institution if this company, which has market-leading positions in the control bank, investment credit and other important areas, is forced by this package, this Eleven-Hour Negotiation Laboratory, to withdraw from it. At the same time, you "guarante" the jobs there. – Minister of State! Policymakers cannot guarantee jobs. You can't even try it so often. They say by ensuring that the good do not go away. Do you think Mr Randa has no immediate interest in his remaining the good? It's not normal. Only targeted management will be able to keep job losses to the minimum possible extent. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] And only when synergies really grasp and if, indeed, an additional volume of business, such as on third markets, for example, in the new reform countries that are also growing in staff, for this new Austrian large bank – do we call them silently! – if these opportunities can really be used, then new jobs will also be created or existing jobs will be secured permanently. The next point: Retain CA's independence for another five years. I've already told you: They have given an additional dramatic paint to the whole thing. You've really "wrongly spoken" the takeover. They have made them an enemy, almost military act. Now you're saying, For five years you've been saved as a brand "CA"! – I think the Board of Directors of Bank Austria or another reasonable bank manager would have always done this, perhaps not five years, maybe only three, but perhaps eight, because it is in the interests of the owner that he does not throw away this valuable brand bought by 17 billion schilling easily and says: Now we'll all merge you in! It is in the interests of the common organization that the brand... [[Abg. Dr. Stummvoll: At the Landesbank – Central Savings Bank it was exactly the opposite!]] Dear Lord! You will remember that the brand "Landesbank" was more than damaged at the time of the merger, which was broken! That's why she was merged. Or don't you remember the scandals? Don't you remember the losses in New York and London? Do you no longer remember that this Landesbank was seriously damaged at the time and was therefore merged? A little hasty, as we said at the time; I am not yet a politician, but an interested outsider. But there was a completely different condition, Mr. stupid. Five years – may be that's right. But I don't think that's a subject where you can say: I am particularly proud of that, and that is a political concern. This is an economic concern. To the comprehensive new privatisation law. Federal Minister! We will still register the ÖVP in its voting behaviour today. There are some motions for resolutions tabled here by the opposition parties, all of which go in this direction. We'll see if you trust to agree. With regard to the protection of small shareholders and the creation of a right to take over, there is a question from last year to the Minister of Finance as he intends to deal with this matter. There is also a proposal for an initiative on this subject today, and I hope that you can go along with it. It is aimed precisely at this minority protection. This is a reasonable measure. To withdraw the AVZ from the GiroCredit I can only say: No, Mr. Federal Minister! This is, in addition to the withdrawal of the AVZ from the bank in general, the second measure, which is, of course, a political decision. That's something I have to say: Yes, you have negotiated that, but on the other hand, Mr Federal Minister, this has been settled for many weeks. Even the SPÖ has seen that it cannot push this game to the top and can not, so to speak, throw a network over the Austrian banks and say: We'll take them all as SPÖs to the chest. The broad distribution of the Bank Austria and the Bank-Austria package to the Federation: We discussed this on the occasion of the transfer to the post-holding, i.e. on the occasion of parking of these shares. On the other hand, we have no objections, although we must point out that the question of hen or egg has to be resolved: Do you first need a functioning capital market for small investors, in some cases the support you have so pass into the discussion today, i.e. the guarantee that the fear will be reduced, because we have no or only a small tradition of looting the savings book and buying shares, or do you first need issuers? We are willing, however, to consult with you constructively and to implement a corresponding law. The star hour or the Gretchen question, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, will be: Are you willing to design not only the municipal savings banks, regardless of their coloring, but also the association savings banks in a second step to a bank? And are you prepared to gradually transfer the cooperative sector to a powerful bank? The Austrian economy wants more than one large bank, it wants several large banks. It needs an alternative, and I believe that this concern must apply all our strength. We must also put it there, and that will not be without resistance, it will not go without political ques tions. But that's what you're going to do, isn't it? Ladies and gentlemen, in particular you are being measured by the ÖVP. You will be measured whether you really mean what you are celebrating here as a victory of your group, but which is nothing but a bit of a tactic of confusion and fogging. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e7362	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. He's got the floor. Speech time: 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e7384	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We now have a urgent request for negotiation. I say this in the event that someone should have forgotten that. It does not seem as if the concern we are negotiating here today is very urgent. Minister Farnleitner! I am grateful for the fact that you have duly pointed out that you are not responsible for some of the questions that have been raised in the context of the urgent question. You then, in your opinion, have actually refused to answer all other specific questions. That's what I see. I do not think it is possible to answer anything that goes beyond the state of affairs. I am sorry, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, to have to say that, as a matter of urgency, this question that has been put to us here is at most the corrections that have been added to this request. The question is referred to itself as "necessary", although the concern it has on the subject has already been dealt with, namely by the consensus of the one who made the request with another. Such a request is not urgent, ladies and gentlemen. You can't secret this either by trying to ask for longer-term prospects. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! If you really wanted to know what this purchase could have for the longer term, you could have asked yourself this before you reached this agreement with the partner. What we have experienced here today, not only in the urgent question, these were "scenes of a marriage" and "scenes of a disappointed love", which our colleague Trattner presented to us very nicely and intrusively. Ladies and gentlemen! The mockery of what has happened here in Austria in recent weeks in the face of the privatisation of the Creditanstalt Bankverein is safe for us in the international public. Whether we are going to suffer a damage to whether the banks involved will suffer a damage, this is likely to occur in the next few years. This will depend not least on the development of this merger. I would have liked, ladies and gentlemen, that sometime during this debate we would have discussed only once about the reason which this merger might have, namely the development of an industrial policy perspective for this country. No sentence has been lost on this aspect of the merger of two large banks in Austria. It also does not appear in the agreements between the two government parties. "Asset-tripping should be avoided", as it is so beautifully dressed in. – But what does that mean? What will happen to industrial policy participations? I just heard from Mr Novotny: All jobs are worth a lot to us. This is contrary to what is contained in the agreement between SPÖ and ÖVP: The jobs of these two banks must be guaranteed for five years. But what happens to the jobs of those involved in industrial policy participation? What about them, ladies and gentlemen? It would be good for you from the S & D Party, but also for you from the Austrian People's Party, all the more so, to point out and work out what Bank Austria has done with its industrial policy participations in recent years. What perspective has Bank Austria pursued with the rejection of its industrial policy participations? – There has been sold on one side the share of the Hallein paper. There the Perlmoser cement has been sold completely to a foreign cement group. There the electro-acoustic company AKG has been sold. And now Bank Austria is buying again in paper factory shares over this deal with CA. Ladies and gentlemen! Explain to me what it means at the level of industrial policy perspectives and options for this country, when Bank Austria acquires a "moist shop" and what the industrial policy perspective of this banking deal is. I would have expected someone to tell us at least with a word about whether it really is the perspective of a large banking empire here in Austria that the porcelain factory Augarten is merged with some other interests. It can't have been! I would have liked you, ladies and gentlemen on the government bank, to explain here what your option was, what you have imagined, where the journey is to go. It can't be all that you stand out here and explain: Yes, we only have very small Austrian banks, and internationally we need to put them together to make us somehow competitive. They know as well as I do, ladies and gentlemen, that our Austrian growth is limited: through the resources in this country, through the population and through various other factors. We will not be able to create a huge bank over the next few decades. If you are looking to growth in the banking sector and if you call it your perspective, then you can only achieve that Bank Austria is already being prepared, here and today, for the acquisition or participation by a foreign investor, by another bank. But you must say that is your perspective. If it is your perspective that Bank Austria is operating industrial policy here in this country, then you have to express yourself accordingly. They will not only take note of the fact that we now have a large bank and can do and leave what they want in this country. I hope that, with all the evidence that politics does not intend to interfere within a bank, in what the Bank has in mind, you are willing and able to develop political visions for industrial policy in that country. That would have been the only thing that made sense. A sentence of the colleague Auer has been very remembered. He said: Whoever last laughs will be decisive. And then there's Mr. Luke's sentence: All 17 points must be fulfilled. Is one sentence related to the other? ==References====External links== That's point? Is that what you want, ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party: All 17 points must be fulfilled, and: Who last laughs will be decisive? Do you think that the Bank of Austria must be bought back, that the bank deal must be reversed? - It can't be! Ladies and gentlemen, above all from the Austrian People's Party, but also from the Social Democratic Party! What you have offered us in recent weeks and months was a political game of mourning. It was a political mourning game not only because no contours have become visible at all, what you want, what your perspectives are, but because you do not know what you want today. You don't know what you want to do with this banking deal today. You don't know what you're going to do with this bank today. You do not know today whether industrial policy should be linked to it or not, whether it is all that this deal has now gone over the stage. One is glad that one can show 17 points, hopefully, so I would say the 17th. That's not the point that's going to be fulfilled. One of the reasons why politics has "excelled" in this country in the last few weeks and months is in no way intended to happen: that they are re-implementing retroactive contracts. They have already pre-executed this in the contract regulations and in the Structural Adjustment Act. Deciding retroactive laws, that was your quality of policy that you have pre-executed in recent weeks and months. Mein Ladies and gentlemen also from the Social Democratic Party! They have, after all, come to a point that allows this option, namely that a law will be passed which will reverse this banking deal, that a valid contract will be terminated. This is your joint work, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democratic Party and of the Austrian People's Party! You're glad you brought this deal on stage. But a success for Austria, for employment in this country, for the economy in this country you have not reached.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e7464	The next speaker is Mr Kröll. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e7485	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! It is clear to me that there is no particular dimension for all the speakers today. The speeches – otherwise again and again very flammable – of the liberals have also made this clear. On the one hand, by agreeing on Saturday night, of course, the air is outside for all those who wanted to be more secret in this matter or expected other results. On the other hand, it is clear that the quality of speech is reduced, but at the same time, top representatives of other parties are caricing and deficient. However, there is no need to wonder about the loss of quality in the speeches – I have to say that quite honestly – because if you throw someone with galle or breath, you must not slander when you smell the result. I therefore believe that there is a connection with urgency, although the agreement with the accompanying 17 points in the case of the sale of the Federal Shares of the CA to Bank Austria has already gone politically. But it's the connection to see. Some of the debates on the sale of the CA shares were about the associated opportunities or non-opportunity for the economic location of Austria, for an industrial policy, for a banking policy, for competitiveness from the European point of view, but also about the competitiveness in its own country, in the regional area, and finally and finally – we do not pretend to play a role – in the confidence of customers. I share the opinion of Mr Hazelsteiner: The customer is certainly not interested in the fact that the same Director-General looks out for each bank window. It is therefore very likely that this will be a question of the market, of opportunities, of opportunities to build on. The withdrawal by the People's Party and finally by the Government of government of state participations or dominant participations, as they were given in the case of the CA, is in the sense of "less state, more private!" And if you add the 17 points, you can say very well that the direction is right. It is now, of course, a matter of being taken seriously and, as agreed, taking further steps. This, of course, requires further structural reforms in the banking sector to go hand in hand. It has already been pointed out today. There are Austrian-wide cleanings. Regional banks and savings banks are affected. This is certainly just a start and has not ended. The credit and financial economy must therefore meet European criteria today and at the same time include a response to general government, country and regional requirements. After the CA regime in the form of this compromise in the government, the result is the exit of the federal government from Bank Austria with its 19 percent shares and other important measures to develop real privatisation. These 17 points serve them in a decisive way. However, all measures can only make sense of strengthening Austria's economic location in general, securing jobs and creating new ones. In this context, the special efforts made by the EIAs in the case of the CA may be seen to indicate that a good brand such as it represents the CA with so many jobs in the bank, but above all also in the factories and in the establishments. It must be safe for people to rely on something. One must not only see the figures alone, but must see the whole of the economy – including jobs, both central and regional. Of course, fiscal consolidation is a major task. And there has certainly been a great success in this regard, as 17 billion Schilling has been granted to the budget, which is very positive for taxpayers, for Parliament and for the government. However, we must not ignore the short-term, medium-term and longer-term consideration. In the short term, the current proceeds are certainly to be placed above everything. That's what people understand. When asked: In times of the savings package can we give up to 2 or 3 billion?, they will say: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, In the medium term, however, one must already question: Is it also structural policy and synergies and market opportunities really the best solution? And if she's not, then two or three billion schillings are back. Because if you play it on the other hand, you must not sell it as the very big solution, as the media do now. The victory is certainly not that great! Ladies and gentlemen! Apart from the purely financial aspects, every small businessman knows today that the work climate is also about voluntary cooperation. Do not be angry with me if I have to make some critical comments on this. I have missed the real will to make consensus, the involvement of employees, the consideration of a partner almost equally strong in a major financial policy deal as he did. In the case of the settlement of business CA – BA there was very, very much, very bad running. Thus, there was no consensus on the main concerns: neither the board of directors of the two major companies nor the works councils nor the staff. It was not possible to prepare for confidence-building here, so that those concerned can also see the benefits. It is therefore not surprising that the uncertainty has grown, and I believe that lessons for the future must be drawn from it. We have often heard that further structural measures are needed. The example CA must certainly not be used as the example number 1. High house! With confidence said: The example is that in our small community three years ago we agreed with each other in a merger of the municipal savings fund, that these measures only take place in accordance with the board of directors of the savings bank, the staff and the municipal council and the mayor, and not against each other, although we have talked there for many years, shows that sometimes the small ones can show the big ones that not only the brand counts money but that more belongs to it. I hope that this aspect will be given a similar importance in further measures, because the customer as a third party is very likely to consider whether to give his trust to such a large institution or to an even larger institution in the future, is very likely to consider whether people there are properly motivated to manage and use his money and advise him on the best possible means of charge. I very much hope that those measures contained in the 17 points of the agreement will promote this confidence. As mayor, I can say on point 13 of this agreement: The savings banks are included. Ladies and gentlemen! Today it is still about 47 municipal savings banks in Austria, no more. There are 65 municipalities involved here. This is to the balance of concern, which the municipal savings banks arrive at. And if not only talk now, but also act hard, one must be clear: It is the municipal autonomous decision whether they also have savings banks, whether they are seeking liability fees or other arrangements: It is necessary to talk and negotiate with those concerned and reach an agreement. This has to be taken into account from the outset so that confidence can grow again. To this end, there will be and must be negotiations with all those concerned, including those representing interests, with the municipal and the municipal associations. It will now be very important to see whether the 17 points of the ÖVP/SPÖ agreement are appropriate, on the one hand, to safeguard the chances of this large institute, which was generally recognized as necessary for Austria, and on the other hand to avoid the risk of too large a moloch in order to achieve the best together. We are called on to take care of this in the accompanying measures and, above all, the management of Bank Austria is to a great extent required to establish such confidence. This is the only answer to the current situation. – I hope it goes well for Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e7571	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Schreiner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e7592	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Federal Minister, if not since this Saturday night, you have certainly been disqualified since today as the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs. You have informed us today when answering this urgent request to you that you would see the capital market strengthened for the future if shares – which is risk capital – were not to be subject to price fluctuations at all. Federal Minister! That's not possible in itself. A share is quite simply risk capital, and risk capital goes up once and for all. Second, Mr. Federal Minister: I would have expected today, in your answer to your question, to include a single sentence or a single provision, at least in the case of trust with regard to the central savings bank or Vienna holding company, and to remind you of the freedom of guidance. Federal Minister! This is probably the least we can ask for if we politically agree to such a solution. But you didn't do that, Minister of State. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I'll tell you: A trustee is obliged to his trustee for so long, i.e. every day and every hour he can get orders from the trustee as long as he is not set free of direction. How can you imagine that what is stated in this item 1 concerning voting rights shares AVZ and Wiener Holding is to be done without political influence if you hear that two people who are, so to speak, professional politicians, namely, chief and Goerg, almost choose these trustees!Unknown term type: "%s".? Mr Lukesch said today that good financial policy and good capital market policy would also improve Austria's economic location. Federal Minister Farnleitner! As long as You have to answer this chaos around the toll pickerl, this chaos with which we have made ourselves ridiculed internationally, as long as you are a member of a federal government that has to answer for a removal of loss talks, in view of which the international investors say: How is that really going to happen? What security do I have if I invest in Austria? as long as you have to co-responsible a minimum corporation tax, which is currently being reviewed by the Constitutional Court, as long as you have to share in the work contract and a tax rate of 43.7 percent, for which you are also responsible in this government, which makes every Austrian up to 16 years old. In June of the year for the State for which the local authority has to work and only from 17 June. As long as the best-balanced financial market is of no use to itself and his family, Mr. Federal Minister, this will not strengthen Austria's economic location. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! One of the last issues in this debate is: Can a reasonable privatisation be carried out in Austria? I say to you that it is only possible to privatize reasonably if potential investors can rely on politics not to be surprised without interruption with retroactive laws, if they can trust that these companies can make profits, and if they can trust that everything will not be called into question and changed incessantly. – Minister of State! This government really does not give investors this confidence. Federal Minister! In my opinion, the chaos surrounding the toll pickerl should have been the subject of a really urgent debate today. If you order to protect the interests of Austrian businesses and their workers, toll pickerln in Chicago, which cannot be delivered over the Christmas season even though they are needed in Austria, you disqualify this as the minister responsible. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! That is why I put forward the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e7701	Mr Schreiner! Paragraph 55 (1) of the Rules of Procedure allows for motions for resolutions relating to the subject-matter of the negotiations. I've been looking at this now: The subject of negotiations is the acquisition of the CA shares by Bank Austria. This motion for a resolution concerns the chaos of the toll picker. I really can't find a context in this regard. I would ask you to tell me whether you agree with your motion for a resolution and bring it to Parliament's attention in this way. According to § 55 para. One last sentence, if only one Member objects, I have to decide, and I really cannot confirm a link between the sale of the bank-austria and the sale of Mautpickerl. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Business treatment!]] Please, Mr Haigermoser.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e7731	Mr President. Without wishing to intervene in your decision-making competence now, I may ask you to read perhaps again the item 4 of the urgent request, in which it reads: "What legal measures are needed to protect small and minority shareholders in order to improve the financial market and thus the economic location of Austria?" Until now, it has always been that this passus, which you quoted, has been interpreted very far, and the economic location of Austria is very likely to have something to do with whether a toll pickerl is placed accordingly or not.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e7769	It is true that we are always very generous with a 'run on the matter', and if a Member of Parliament is cutting another item of negotiation in an urgent debate, then the 'run to the matter' is treated very sparingly. But in the sense of § 55(1), the last sentence that the President has to decide, I take the decision that this relationship is not given. I would ask Mr Schreiner once again to agree to what his right is or is not right to grant the request. The next speaker is Mr Dr Kier. Speech time: 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e7800	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! At the beginning of my brief remarks, I need to highlight the point that we are dealing here with a urgent question at a special meeting, both - special sitting and urgent question - by the same group, and we must note that the group which has caused both of them to do so is not really very interested in it. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum as well as on representatives of the SPÖ.]] I believe that this is not very pleasant. You can now use different interpretations in this regard: One can, for example, apply the interpretation, which the colleagues of the ÖVP protest against this special meeting by demonstrating a greater number of distance stays. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] But I don't assume that's unlikely, but theoretically it's possible. Perhaps such a certain inner-party displeasure is evident, for one thing I must say: The leadership of this group has been at least critical in recent days. – So that would be one way. Another possibility would be that colleagues from the EIA would not really be interested. That would be possible, too. Mr Lukesch has raised a question to Mr Farnleitner – but the debate on this is uninteresting because the expected response of the Federal Minister is already there. The result is already printed as an advertisement in tomorrow's daily newspapers. Why should we really stop in plenary and perhaps listen to some kind of debate contribution? – That actually says everything you can say about the importance of this urgent request. The question is one itself, but one is not interested in one's own request and the debate caused by it. At the same time, however, we are told that this is all great success, that everything is wonderful, for example, that the job guarantee in the CA is a very excellent matter. In my opinion, the job guarantee, which is also contained in this Convention, will have to be further analysed. That is to say: Preservation of jobs in CA, personnel reduction only through natural exit. However, we must know that there is a very sensible restructuring programme in the CA. There has been an internal reorganisation – with the aim of reducing the workforce. In this respect, complicated negotiations have taken place with the works councils and a certain solution path has been agreed. Is this solution path, which was called making CA slimmer, more efficient and more modern, now frozen by this warranty, or is it included in this warranty? Is that what was negotiated with the Works Council suspended by this guarantee – or is it still applicable? That would be of interest, and I also tell you why: If this solution path is frozen by this guarantee, although at the same time it was assured that the CA would remain an independent institute for five years, this was a very classic political intervention in the management of CA, which is still in the wrong mood of job security. This is political dirigism, so to speak, at the stage of farewell, and at the same time the current management of CA has been disavowed with it, because the ladies and gentlemen concerned have thought something when it was negotiated. But that is perhaps something that the political mandates of the EIA are not really interested in, because there is something else to understand about these internal banking structures, and that seems to be too much to demand. After all, it's a "black" bank, it seems to have their own friends sitting there anyway, and you can rely on them anyway, and otherwise we don't need professional expertise either. [[Abg. Horngacher is attacking the forehead.]] – Mrs Colleague, you can still be so hard on your head! I will not misinterpret this gesture, although it represents a certain rudeness. But it's like this: Policy without expertise is an adventure, not necessarily to be taken into account. [[Call to the Freeman: Of course, this does not apply to you!]] – It would also apply to me if I were to move in areas where I lack the technical knowledge, but I avoid doing so. [[Abg. Großruck: You are an omniscient!]] No, I don't know everything, you say. Mr Grossruck, that is what you think, perhaps from your point of view, it may look like that, but that is your personal problem. That's what I'm saying quite clearly. [[Cheerfulness and applause at the Liberal Forum.]] But I have no problem with admitting that there are quite a lot of areas where I do not know myself so well. I know that there are many who know much better in many areas, but I know at least to ask the relevant questions. You know, Mr Großruck, it can sometimes be useful to ask the right people. That can be very valuable. The approach I have just described is therefore a classical political-drigistic intervention, which is served as a "privateization" and "success" for us – and that of a party called the Economic Party, which is rude to it in the form of a parliamentary request addressed to the Federal Minister himself, who belongs to its own political group, in the form that hardly anyone is present to you. These are not good forecasts, because we have some other problems to solve in this field of privatisation, restructuring. We have to restructure the energy industry and, as a result, we may have to privatise what is privatisation. But I am afraid we will not create this restructuring if the same policy understanding is used to address the restructuring of the energy industry, which has now been dealt with by CA and Bank Austria. This was a relatively simple problem in relation to what is happening to us. There it was simply proportion between red and black, and that among banks. In the energy sector, we will be confronted with federalism in its negative form, namely a cantonist. There will be federal states that have special positions – like Vorarlberg, the colleague Mother is just waving me. I'm just calling the Ill works, where something was praised as privatization, which was actually a transfer to another public hand. We will have countries such as Upper Austria, whose Landesgesellschaft is also involved in the Salzburger Landesgesellschaft. We will have TIWAG, which will play its special role in the North-South Association – necessarily against Austrian interests. We will have the EVN, which makes gas and electricity from a single source and is a monopolist of a special kind. And all these societies will be still different in color. If we do not jump over the shadow of the proportion in this problem and do not realize that it is one of the major infrastructure tasks in this country, then we will suffer shipwreck. I would like to mention this here today, because if the Minister of State is in the House and if his own group does not show any interest in the question addressed to him, then I will use this opportunity to deposit it here. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. If we cannot jump over party egoisms and proporz, it will become quite unpleasant. Then we will fail, and then there will be a real infrastructural sale. Finally, I would like to make a comment from the point of view of Vienna, because today ÖVP and SPÖ, which reaches the area Bank Austria – CA, have partly praised each other in this way. If after the last municipal election on the occasion of the election of Dr. Häupl as mayor in Coalition with the ÖVP this Vienna city government would have decided a serious privatisation concept for Bank Austria, then today we would not have this debate. The ÖVP has failed to represent in Vienna what it has made a question of flags today. It has not made the privatization of Bank Austria a lot more than just to rule in Vienna, and this double morale should also be recorded by this speaker's mouth. If the subject of privatisation had been so important at all times, Mr Goerg could not have signed his pact with Mr Häupl if the privatisation of Bank Austria had not been included in it. . I mean, a party that acts only after opportunity is not a state bearer.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e7876	I declare that I can accept the motion for a resolution tabled by Members. Schreiner and colleagues on Chaos um die Mautpickerl, who is properly supported, in agreement with the honourable Member Mag. Mr Schreiner will be assigned to the Building Committee. The next speaker is Mr Haigermoser. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e7904	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister of State Dr. Farnleitner! In your introductory sentences to these "individuals" – under quotation marks – have It gave it to the House and to the public in favour of some positive statements of intent. Only: You have to think politically realistically. At least since today, Federal Minister Dr. Farnleitner, you no longer have a partner for the implementation of this will, because the comrades will only drop more broms from the table. That should be clear to you. Therefore, your statement of intent, what you intend to do in the banking sector and in the economic field, was just a letter to the Christian Child, Dr. Farnleitner. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That should actually make you think about it, even what these urgent ones are about, ladies and gentlemen, who have not taken the EIA itself seriously, as my previous speaker has already said. The ÖVP has only made the unsuitable attempt to launch a distraction maneuver for the "rohr crepier" as it was drawn by the caricatureist in the morning "Kurier" and to raise fog-swords. You can break so expensive ad campaigns from the fence, ladies and gentlemen: The Austrian people have looked through this Austrian People's Party. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! They also did not get through with a scurvy request – and I did not suspect that the two signatorys Auer and Kröll had designed this request, which I think was rather Dr. Lukesch. And I would not like to quote Mrs Cordula Frieser now as regards her test intentions. One might ask for that in itself, but I'm not. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I am not doing this because the matter is too serious in itself to be treated as ball-horned and in such a bad way as the ÖVP has tried. I do not want to torture you again with the Vignette, Mr Farnleitner, Federal Minister. There will be plenty of opportunity to do this. But the SPÖ does not need to break out in haema, because the head of the so-called logistics company, Mr Wallhütter, a solid red man, is responsible for what happened. So once again party book economy of red and black par excellence! The said chaos is not only the indebtedness of Dr. Farnleitner, but at least half the indebtedness of the comrades who send their party guests – no matter what qualifications they have – into such institutions. This is the problem we have in this country too. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: That's it!]] That is to say, this "threatful" – under goose feet – is the attempt of a distraction maneuver of a capital political belly spot that you have landed, ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Now you could break out as a freeman here in heme. We do not, however, because we believe that it is necessary to improve many things in the banking sector – and not just in this. That is why we have made an attempt to regulate this together. But they weren't ready to do that. They have signed a signature, but, before the cock crowed, they have become punctual three times, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP. That's the problem you have. And the questions you originally designed in this urgent request, which were then crossed out, speak volumes. If you look at the original question 6 only once, which was then deleted by the superior of the ÖVP club: "How can the sale of CA to Bank Austria be assessed from a competitive perspective?" – You are now discovering in a request, even if later, the antitrust difficulties that would have occurred. You could have decided to have a proper antitrust right, as it is a duty of freedom and in the form of a request, – but you did not do so. Now you are hiding behind a dubious question, which, in the end, seemed too comically formulated to you. Then the question 9, finally also deleted: "What do you expect from any EU competition procedure in connection with the sale of CA shares to Bank Austria?" – Ladies and gentlemen! You have also deleted this question, because you have left the Courage. That's where you're afraid of your own mirror picture. They have looked into the mirror and have been afraid, but fear is a bad advisor in such matters. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! You've practised a crasher today. Mr. Federal Minister Farnleitner, if you have said that coincidences are also a "political quality", we say to you: The best political quality would have been to prove backbone.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e7972	The next speaker is Mr Firlinger. Voluntary speaking time: 4 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e7994	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, many Austrians asked themselves what was happening this night from the 11th to the 12th century. Yes, it happened. Ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and SPÖ! They've made everything possible, just one not: You didn't think about Austria, because if you had, you wouldn't mind Austria becoming a mockery and mockery of the international press for months around this CA-banking. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] On the night of the 11th to the 12th. There's a lot of stuff going on in the back and a lot ahead. Foreruncingly, this has happened, which beats down in the 17 points and is defended today as a great achievement. Something else has happened – and you have to translate it. In retrospect, Austria has been divided again – for the second time – into power politics. Order was created here, ladies and gentlemen. Behind the scenes, that means: Okay, if there is already a lot of hated Bank Austria on the CA if green light has to be given in this regard, then green light must also be given that now Raiffeisen is moving in a different direction, that the large Raiffeisen group is getting a block minority at Bank Austria, that Raiffeisen is doing a common thing with the Postsparkasse and so on, that the "First" group is so to speak, selecting its cake and empowering itself to the remaining savings bank sector. So there has been a change here, which certainly only goes towards red and black, but is not for the good of Austria, ladies and gentlemen! Everything else that played here was, so to speak, a accompanying music for the reasons of the labels outwards, so that it doesn't look so embarrassing, so %painful, what was done here on a political deal. For the following, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and SPÖ, I must say to you: You would not have needed the Coalition Committee for these points in God's eyes, but you could have managed it differently: in peace, well-informed, well-negotiated with the involvement of all political parties. But you didn't. Although you have made some right points in the goal – quite free demands – you once again did not dare to formulate them in such a way that they are also hievous and firm that they can withstand any burden. What bothers me, ladies and gentlemen: They go the way of the Lex specialis instead of making order and taking the path of the Lex generalis. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You must make it clear to the Austrians why you are now making yourself so strong as to the AVZ as regards the issue of liability premiums, but you must also explain to the Austrians – that is to say, the address of the ÖVP – why the mortgage banks are excluded, for example, for which the countries give significant liability. You have to explain this to the Austrians! You also have to explain many other questions that arise in this context, and I can assure you today: You will have to deal with this issue, which you have agreed to, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, for a long time, and you will also be very angry.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e8052	The next speaker is Mr Krüger. Speaking time: 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e8073	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Taking into account the very short period of time that remains for me, I would like to work out what is for me the Quintessence of this coalition agreement and also the Quintessence of this special session. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that the coalition has assumed that a privatisation in the Austrian banking landscape is a result of politics. The fact is, however, that you have failed. On the contrary: There can be no talk of privatisation at all! The only thing you have created here is nothing but a conversion into the political power structures of the banks concerned. In this regard, there is a wealth of evidence to shed the red light on the fact that in reality only a sham privatisation was carried out, such as the trustee solution. I should like to point out that it is already a contradiction in itself to order a trustee on the one hand, and on the other hand to assume that the trustee has a life of his own. The fact is that, if a trustee is not set free of discretion, he is subject to the instructions of the trustee, but even if he is set free of direction, he must fulfill the final order for the benefit of the trustee. In the present case, it is clear that the trustee will vote in favour of the AVZ and that he will probably vote with it in the same tone. One should not give in to the illusion that the trustee is almost a deus ex machina, acting only in accordance with the principles of the rule of law. He will proceed in the sense of his trust mandate and will undoubtedly fulfill the will of the Trustees – as we have heard – the chief and Goerg. In addition, the AVZ, together with the Wiener Städtisch, will still have a majority of more than 25 percent in Bank Austria even after the Coalition Convention and is therefore overall the largest owner. It is therefore an illusion to believe, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, that social democracy has withdrawn its power structures from the Bank of Austria. But you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, have not really been a privatisation at all. Only yesterday did you prove in Upper Austria that privatisation is only worth your lip confession. At the government meeting, our State Council of Achatz has requested that 51 percent of the state Mortgage Institute in Upper Austria be privatized. Ladies and gentlemen, perhaps you know, I don't want to put you on torture any longer: Of course, this request has been rejected. No privatisation! I come to the conclusion. It has already been said that it is a tragedy that has occurred. Mr Kostelka brought the metaphors with the palm and asked the ÖVP delegates and ÖVP politicians to withdraw slowly from the palm. The ÖVP has complied with this call, but not through a withdrawal, but through the free fall.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e8111	As the next speaker, the Federal Minister has spoken. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e8132	Mr President. I have been asked directly in some cases and would like to reply briefly. On the one hand, Mr Heindl has raised the question of export and the increase in the intensity of possible use of funds. I would like to tell the House that, according to the latest statistics, our real exports have increased by 10 per cent last year, that the financial liabilities of the Control Bank have reached a maximum of about 10 billion and that exports are currently also the real bearer of our relatively large but existing economic activity. That is why I ask you to be allowed to say that. Second point: Mr Stadler referred to the issue of minority shareholder compensation. I can only point out that, according to the rules in force in the countries which have this type of compensation, either a median value of price development is usually assumed and then up to 25 percent discount is given there and there in the case of "take overs" with a dominant character. [[Abg. May. Stadler: There must be a re-evaluation!]] If I assume an Austrian example, I cannot take the closing value or the current price value of the share, but I take the average value, then we are about 650 s, so that according to international standards there is quite a substantial return. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Focus on international parameters!]] Next point: I have been addressed by honourable Members Haselsteiner with regard to job security in the case of banks falling into the disinvestment. I would like to reply to these questions which he and also other Members have asked that the disinvestment has its explanatory statement exclusively on competition policy questions, in order not to reinforce certain concentration effects, there is no negative influence on Bank Austria at all if, with its now almost 80 percent shares in two investment banks – whether it be a control bank or an investment loan – it goes down to a degree as it had before. This is not about special findings, but about the possibility of participation at interesting institutes. On the industrial policy perspectives addressed by Mr Öllinger: With regard to CA, it has been said very well that as a result of this "take overs", as it is so beautiful, it does not come to "asset stripping". It would be understood that industrial participation is suspended at any price in order to obtain the purchase price back. A note to Members of Parliament. He probably didn't listen to me. I have said that in capital market policy we are concerned with bringing about stable investors, non-stabilistic courses in the area of the spread of large population groups. So if you think in this context that I have made a senseless request, I can only really understand that as a misunderstanding. A final reference to Members of the Kier: Finally, it was the offer made by Bank Austria in its last re-examination that it should refrain from taking over due terminations and therefore only seek to reduce stocks. To Mr Firlinger: There are no side-by-side agreements in the deal. It's even reversed. It is not the case that the 17.5 percent parked by the postal investment company go to Raiffeisen or vice versa the PSK to the BA, but vice versa: Both have been clarified by appropriate formulations, namely wide scattering for the parked BA shares and no involvement of BA in PSK privatisation. Thank you, Mr President, Mr Hohes Haus.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e8183	Thank you, Minister of State. No further words are available. This concludes the debate on the urgent question. Short debate on the reply to the question 1439/AB
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e8208	Next we will come to the short debate on the question answered by the Federal Minister for Science, Transport and Art with the order number 1439/AB. The above-mentioned answer has been distributed in writing so that a reading by the author is not necessary. We are going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, pursuant to Article 57a of the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may, in principle, speak for more than 5 minutes, with the first speaker giving a speaking time of 10 minutes, and also the Federal Minister, who will reply to the first speaker. Mr Anschober is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Speech time: 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e8240	Mr President. Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! We are now coming to this current question meeting on Semmering Base Tunnel. It is also almost a billion, but I hope that it will not be as expensive as the revenue that could actually be realized from the sale of the credit institution. Two things have become very obvious and clear at this special meeting and also in this reply to the question. The first is the fact that in Austria, for very important investments and for high political priorities, there is obviously a great lack of capital – I am thinking of active labour market policy, which would be necessary in particular for the most vulnerable groups such as women and young people, I am thinking of basic social security, the expansion of public transport, where we have had many debates in the Transport Committee about the fact that this is not the case, especially in the case of regional railways and public transport, but at the same time, although there is no money for necessary projects, billions are invested in projects whose sense is lacking, their meaning is highly controversial, while at the same time it is not clear what funding should actually look like in detail and what costs are actually caused. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! When reading this answer, I conclude that this is the case with the Semmering base tunnel, but – and I say this very clearly and clearly every time – also in the project of the Semmering highway. Secondly, it has become very clear today – and this is also very clear in the Federal Minister's response to the question – that this government is actually drawing on a line with full force, but in two opposite directions. Rarely will this become as clear in a project as in the Semmering, in the Semmering overall. There are parts of the ÖVP that practice massive criticism of the Semmering Base Tunnel project, and there are parts of the SPÖ that practice massive criticism of the Semmering-Schnellstraße project. What is the compromise of this Federal Government? – If one side criticises the one project, the other side criticizes the other project, then we build both projects and thus create a billion investment as at Semmering with the Semmering Rapid Road and the Semmering Base Tunnel, which will devour at least 11 to 15 billion schilling – depending on the cost calculation, geological situation and cetera – a parallel investment, because clear political decision-making is not possible, while this paralysing of the Federal Government will cost a total of billions instead of investing directly in jobs instead of investing directly in environmental renovation, in regional railways, in transport. I would remind you – to stay with the tunnel projects, because both the highway and the base tunnel are in the main tunnel projects, because there is no other geology for the Semmering Rapid Road project or for the Semmering Base Tunnel; these are quite similar advances and precautions – that all major tunnel projects in Europe in recent years have shown two major effects: firstly, hardly an employment effect and second huge construction costs. Just think of the canal tunnel project, where there is still the major financing crisis, because construction cost development went from estimated 60 billion schilling to 140 billion schilling. So far, we have also had extreme cost developments at the Semmering Base Tunnel: from the initial estimated construction costs, according to the offer of the current company, from 450 million Schilling to an estimated 900 million Schilling, with regard to the costs of the Sindierstolling. Nevertheless, the answer to this question is that the construction process will be completed at the end of January, although the Minister also explains in the answer to the question, in the essential areas nothing or far too little about the detailed effects of current geological difficulties to know about the actual costs et cetera. You know, Mr Minister, according to this answer to the question, not to date the exact cost of the current water collapse, you do not know, according to this current question answer, the actual cost of the probe, you do not know the cost of the use fees for the ÖBB, you do not know the share of private financing, you do not know the construction time and the total cost of the Semmering base tunnel, if you assume that the 6.5 million schilling – estimate one year ago – will certainly no longer apply. At least on one point I can show you that the presentation in the answer to the question is not correct, namely in the point where you claim you could not say anything at present about the actual cost of the current water collapse which has been given since the end of October. ==References== In November of last year, Mr Minister, you presented to the Council of Ministers that, as a consequence, cost of 360 million schillings is to be expected. In the answer to the question now, two months later, you know nothing about the costs caused by it. This is either a sloppy request response, or you don't want to put the cards on the table to the House, what reality actually looks like, or in the meantime new cost developments that go beyond this 360 million schilling. This too should be known by Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. And then we are already at the height – for me – to the negative height of this question response. Some time ago, in this House, I thought one very constructive debate had led to the Semmering Base Tunnel, and at that time at least my understanding of your presentation was such that you at least understand and accept our concerns about the details to be obtained from a probe tunnel. In the answer to the question, you will definitely write for the first time, although you have the great geological difficulties ahead of you, water collapses ahead of you, extreme additional costs are that the construction of the main tunnel can be started regardless of the construction of the exploration tunnel. And that is a very, very essential point. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Minister! What sense does an exploration tunnel have, if not all the statements you receive in the course of the work, in the preparation of this exploration tunnel – the actual cost factor I can only know after the completion of the exploration tunnel – if you do not wait for these questions and these answers and thus the entire construction of the test tunnel, but already start with the construction of the main tunnel, and thus of course create constraints? I think it is precisely this point, ladies and gentlemen, that is not responsible, and that is the main reason why, in addition to the obvious shortcomings and some errors in this response to the question, we have requested this question. Either there is an appallingly low level of knowledge about the actual impact of the project – or we have to do with a situation where a minister tells Parliament very little about what he actually knows about the project. If the second is the case, then it is negligent to Parliament, because here the inspectors sit, and here one should be accountable for the developments of the project. However, if the first point is that you do not really know more than you do in this answer to the question, I believe that the construction process at the end of January – after the water collapse and after the restoration of this water collapse – and above all the beginning of the construction of the main tunnel, even before the probes are completed and the findings are evaluated and assessed, is simply negligent. That is the point, Mr Minister, and we ask you very, very urgently, now to put your cards on the table in your statements of cleaner, correct and with more information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e8321	The Federal Minister has spoken. I'll give it to him. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e8343	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would like to keep in my reply to those points which have been mentioned here by Mr Anschober from the chronology. The first point was that there would be insufficient investment for public infrastructure development. It is true that, at the beginning of this legislative period, a rail infrastructure financing law was passed in this House, which allows for an investment of around 12 billion schillings per year, of which, of course, a good part has to go into urban transport development, and in which – even if not here in the house – we have already been able to discuss sufficiently publicly – investments in the "rolling material". So we do not agree in some respects with the Lower Austrian head of state – as in this specific meeting point, for example – that we were able to conclude a very good contract with Lower Austria with regard to the innovations of the "rolling material", and only a few weeks ago the first double-stock wagons went off the stack. There is currently, in order to bring this to a simple denominator, a more than 50 percent increase in the annual investment effort for rail infrastructure over the past few years, despite a totally non-critical budgetary situation. The second point: There are no clear cost conditions for the Semmering base tunnel. What the chronology is all about, I ask to pay attention in the sequence. The first decision was a transport policy, namely to establish that a Semmering base tunnel is necessary for transport policy reasons, in recognition of what the Pontebbaner axis means in Europe but also in Austria as a transport axis, and in recognition of the economic operation, in particular for the transport of goods on the old Ghega line. The third point was that, for technical, safety and calculatorial reasons, we have started the construction of the probe to achieve essentially three points, namely to gain safety and geological knowledge from the pre-driver of the probe and at the same time to achieve a intermediate performance for the entire project, which means that these probes – as I come to your last point – do not only have a function as test stables, but also as accompanying tunnels perform an important function for the overall project. That is, the probe stollen is not inconceivable when the entire project is realized, but in its existence it is also necessary for the entire project and not only for the purpose of the exploration. The fourth point is that we have signed out the private financing contribution and expect the results to be achieved at the latest by the end of the first quarter of the year just begun – there are currently six groups of interested parties seeking this funding – and of course only then the details of financing are on the table, which in turn – I have never discussed – conclusions – I therefore come to the next question, namely the amount of the use fee, the use fee for the ÖBB – to the benefit fee for operators – whoever will be that; essentially the ÖBB – allows, and which allows for final conclusions on the financing costs. I have always given the impression – and I would like to see this opportunity to repeat it today – that in the public, some of them, in particular those who consider the project to be insignificant in their substance, have been criticized for forecasts based on future traffic in order to justify the project, so to speak, to find argumentation for the project. It has always been said that this assumed around 4 percent increase from year to year for the next decades is too much, that is imagination numbers, the project would not expect at all. We have therefore put in place a very defensive comparison account, one which is certainly too modest in its reserved nature, by not accepting any increase in the volume of transport at all, and no more kilograms in the transport of goods. You will be right to say that it is not likely that there will be no increase in freight transport, taking into account that there has already been 30 percent increase since 1990 alone. So suppose that from one moment to the other it comes from a relatively steep curve to one on decades flat, is certainly too defensive and to be restrained, but it has been shown that even by reference to this completely static bill a comparison between the two projects – expansion of the Ghega line also for future safe freight transport, plus operating costs, plus maintenance costs vis-à-vis tunnel and accompanying Ghega line for regional passenger transport – results in the tunnel project being the economically better variant. I think this is important for this discussion that we finally avoid assuming that the justification for transport policy is, so to speak, a question of the assessment of future traffic. Let's say it again. Even the most defensive form of accepting completely unrealisticly would not have any increase in traffic for decades, the tunnel project represents the more economic project compared to the alternative. [[Intercession with the liberals.]] – Based on the previous costs. However, these already take into account the water collapse, and above all it is that the minimum change in traffic makes this overhang into the billions, and I cannot make a final financing decision, as I say here at the same time, before we do not have the private offerings. I'm just staying there. Transport policy is essential. From the point of view of calculation, the most defensive assumption is still that this project is economically superior, apart from the fact that certain transport increases are in any case acceptable and therefore literally this distance is created in billions between the two alternatives. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Now on the question of additional costs related to water collapse. It is true that I have reported in the Council of Ministers that additional costs of around 360 million schilling are to be expected, and it is also true that in the parliamentary question I said a few weeks later that we do not yet know the final costs – and both of them are right. At the time of the Council of Ministers' presentation, the 360 million Schillings had to be expected of additional costs. The statements we are currently having are all going in the direction that there is no additional cost, but the final assessment of this will only be possible in a few weeks. I have always kept myself very precise in these questions, even though it is sometimes only complicated to explain publicly, because of course it is easier to put placardative numbers into space. But it's true, as I said. At the time of the Council of Ministers' presentation this was the current estimate. It is also true that, according to all the statements we have, it is not to be expected that this estimate is too low, but a final billing will only be available in a few weeks. Now on the question: Function of the probe and construction of the main tunnel before the probe is completed. That's what I said at the beginning: This probe has not only the function of sintering and bringing geological findings, but also, of course, these probes have, as you know, the function of an accompaniment tunnel to the main tunnel. If we assume that we have available the essential geological findings from the probe after a progress of about 30 percent of the total project, and - this is also to be taken into account - if we assume that at the end of March we have finally made private funding offers – you would now tell me that you would be very happy if I could listen to you again - and therefore prove financing costs in detail, then, of course, at the same time, that it would be a commercial and traffic policy nonsense to wait until the project becoming the last meter's accompanying tunnel is reached by an increasing number of probes, from which we can hardly gain any more geological knowledge. [[to the one in conversation with Abg. Wabl Baseline Directed]] If we did not start with the main project, this would have the only result that the cost of financing would increase, that we would lose time and that the transport policy objectives could not be achieved.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e8434	Federal Minister! The opinion should not exceed 10 minutes. I would ask you to take a brief look at this.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e8452	Because of a delay in time, I think that it is pointless from the point of view of transport policy. Let me conclude by saying: In fact, we have only two options in all budgetary, safety, geological, environmental considerations: Either we want this transport axis to be an active, strong one in Austria, then we must equip it accordingly – or we are no longer talking about the priority of public transport. We must admit, however, that in Austria we are unable to create the appropriate conditions. This is certainly not my transport policy. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e8489	The next speaker is Mr Parnigoni. His speaking time is 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e8510	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Let me add a few facts to this discussion. The fact is that the net load of freight trains has increased by 30 percent in recent years, but it is precisely on the Semmering line that there is a limit of 650 tonnes – that is the load that this material holds maximum. This means that before the Semmering we have to share the freight trains and after the Semmering we have to re-connect the freight trains. The trend is also headed towards over-wide containers – an international development – and on the "rolling land road" towards normal trucks of four meters. The latter is not possible in view of the narrow radii, limited light-space profiles of the tunnels and the narrow track distances. Ladies and gentlemen! It was a recent accident due to these narrow radii. Fortunately, it was only a freight wagon with an uncomplicated load. If it were dangerous, this could have led to major complications. We know from a question answer that only the renovation of the current route would cost about 3.2 billion schilling. Ladies and gentlemen! As a fact, passenger transport must bear in mind that this Semmering base tunnel will bring 30 minutes of reduction in travel time, will halve the length of the route and will lead to energy savings corresponding to the approximate energy consumption of 12 000 households per year. That too must be said again. Another fact is that the design currently required – not from Lower Austria – is a major obstacle to the execution of this building. In contrast to the technically and economically optimal variant, which would also be desired by us, we have to expect a twice as long construction duration. Unfortunately, the consent of the state of Lower Austria, especially the head of state Pröll, could not be found. I would also like to clear up a newspaper, namely that this project, Semmering-Base Tunnel, is not supported by the EU. It is supported; it is supported – like other projects. [[Abg. - But how high?]] If this project is presented to the public as if it were to reject the EU, I must say, Mr President, that this is not true. The EU also supports the Semmering project as well as all other projects – but with a small sum. But this means that the recognition of this project is guaranteed in the EU. Ladies and gentlemen! It should also be noted that, in reality, the abandonment of the further advance of the probe would delay the entire building by three years and will be expensive by 1.3 billion schilling. If we could create the counter-promotion from Lower Austria, so if this approval by the head of state Pröll were finally to take place, then the duration of the construction could be reduced by one and a half years and the cost could be reduced by 650 million schilling. That is to say, the head of state in Lower Austria is deliberately wasting 650 million on taxpayers' money. I believe that reason must prevail. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to explain a few more in my remaining speaking time: We now hear and read that the road tunnel is being built. I do not hear of any problems of nature conservation and noise in the country of Lower Austria. There are no water problems. This is where Niederösterreich, colleague Kampichler, is being driven by the Sinnerstollen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kampichler]] There's no problem with the excavation. That's where the Kampichler made room in his "Gartl" for the excavating. The cost of 5 billion, including the financing costs of 15, perhaps 20 billion Schilling, does not play a role, as opposed to the railway tunnel. But that's the way it is. There is obviously a colt there: With the Greens, there is the Anschober and the Steirer Wabl, which are different opinions; in the ÖVP there is the Styrian head of state and the Lower Austrian head of state, who are different opinions. There are also different opinions in the media. In the Lower Austrian "Krone" is the exact opposite of what stands in the Styrian. I mean, the reasonable should prevail, and we should build this building. We should confess to a modern rail infrastructure so that...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e8548	I would ask for the final sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e8563	... the economic location Austria is also secured in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e8592	Mr Kukacka is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e8614	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to say, first of all, that the Austrian People's Party, on the basis of the decisions of the National Council and also of the Council of Ministers, takes a clear stance on the construction of the Semmering Base Tunnel. ==References====External links== The decision to build the Semmering-basis tunnel was confirmed by the decision of the time of its construction in November 1996. We also acknowledge this in the large majority as the ÖVP Parliamentary Group and as the Federal Party. The fact that two federal states – Lower Austria and Styria – have different opinions on the pace and urgency of development is nevertheless legitimate and occurs in many major infrastructure projects. For what is important and urgent for Styria, it must not yet be for Lower Austria for regional policy reasons. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wabl.]] Mr Wabl! We have to decide here in the National Council what is important and necessary from a federal point of view and within the framework of a pan-Austrian and pan-European transport policy. For this reason, we confess to the construction of the Semmering Tunnel and consider this project to be necessary and meaningful in the long term. In any event, I do not believe that these opinions – in particular the prognostic opinion – have been convincingly contradicted by all opponents. Mr Parnigoni has already pointed out: There was no such uniform opinion in all political groups. As long as Haider was head of the state of Carinthia, he was a glowing follower of this project. When he was no longer, he didn't want to know anything about this project. This is not a very credible policy. We don't talk about the Greens at all: Anschober provides a political continuous run against the project; With his Green-Steir Party, Mr Wabl as a steirer has long been a candidate for this project. At least to this day it is not clear to me whether it is actually for or against this project. – Mr Colleague! Only to be wandered around You don't believe me. [[Abg. Wabl: For it!]] For that, bravo, then you do not need to lose a word about the ÖVP if you are in your own party disagreement on this question. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Obviously, there are structural difficulties in probes and accompanying tunnels, but such difficulties and uncertainties exist in almost all such projects. There would be no Brenner-Eisenbahnbahn, no Arlberg tunnel, no detour tunnel Innsbruck, if technology and politics had capitulated immediately before any difficulties. The technical and environmental objections that have been raised so far are also presented in many other major projects. However, they are not of such importance that, for these reasons, a stopover would be necessary or justified. In any case, that's our position on this. I would also like to say quite clearly to the ÖVP – and I would like to stress this: First: There can only be a start of construction for the main tunnel if all the administrative procedures are completed positively. At present, however, the nature protection permit for the tunnel portal is still pending on the Lower Austrian side. Secondly, The overall financing of this project must be clarified. This is also not the case at present, and the question of whether and in what form private financing groups are involved is still open. This question must be clarified by the Minister. In any event, I take note with great interest and also with agreement that yesterday the Minister of Finance said to the APA that private funding is a requirement and that he is not thinking of budget financing at this time. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Minister! In this sense, I would ask you to provide as soon as possible all the basis of decision so that this permanent internal policy issue can finally be dealt with.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e8675	The next speech is by Mr Rosenstingl. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e8697	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kukacka, I would have liked it if you had said that it was necessary to clarify private funding and not all the funding because it leaves everything open. I suspect that you have not known from one year to the other what you want from the ÖVP. I would like to remind you once again of what Mr Vice-Chanceller Dr. Schüssel said on 24 April. It was written by an interested person in January 1996. He says there that either a private financing solution has to be found without the federal liability, or construction is not started. . I hope you will support this, so that you can finally be clear about your line in this area as well. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Is the shark for it or against it?]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Today's reply from the Federal Minister has also shown how wrong and uninformed your answers are. I am referring in particular to the area of financing. They mentioned again both in the response to the request and today that according to the cost forecast of the Semmering base tunnel will cost 6.5 billion. Federal Minister! I think you're the only person in all of Austria who really believes that. Or you deliberately say something wrong, because even your former Secretary of State Dipl.-Ing. Walter Brenner, who now – your invention – holds an irreconcilable dual function as Managing Director and Director-General of two companies, functions which I believe are incompatible, in an interview that he held on 11 November. In January 1997 the "Standard" said that the overall project will be at least 2 billion Schillings more expensive than originally planned. Even if I take your plan seriously, which was at 6,5 billion – which was not voted at the time – we are already at 8.5 billion. So we've already exceeded the 6.5 billion, as those responsible on your side admit. I believe that the cost of this project will be well over 8.5 billion, well over 10 billion schilling, and this project will therefore also be unfinancing. Federal Minister! The Social Democrats have already gone away from private funding. ==References====External links== 11th@item: inlistbox 1996 of the Labour Chamber's Transport Officer. When you read the press reports, you see, it has continually continued like this: On the other hand, SPÖ politicians have said that the Semmering base tunnel should not be privately eligible; it would be useful to finance it from budget resources. The last one who thought in this direction, and also expressed it, was the clubman of the Lower Austrian Social Democratic Bauer, who no longer spoke of private funding, but of funding over the budget. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Reasonable opinion!]] Mr Parnigoni! What you and the Federal Minister, unfortunately, do not consider in this regard, is that if the project is to be properly financed – we assume through private funding – this money should be brought in. There is nothing to do with the fact that the Federal Minister is telling us today that there will anyway be a slight increase in traffic, and by drawing some comparisons this will be expected. Federal Minister! There's a very simple bill: If you finance it privately and if you want to bring it in, you need to increase the user charges. Then the Austrian Federal Railways will also have to pay higher user charges. We must note, however, that the Austrian Federal Railways have a very high grant requirement – in any form whatsoever – that this grant requirement will not be reduced, but that, if it is really calculated in a serious way, it has even increased and that this grant need will continue to rise as a result of higher user charges. Then who pays for it? – Of course, not the Austrian Federal Railways as a company, but it will remain with the taxpayer. The need for subsidies will rise. And that, Minister of State, we reject it. This is also the reason why this project should be rejected. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! It is always discussed that this project is also not as favourable as you would like it to be. I therefore believe that, at last, reason should come to the conclusion that the construction of this billion tomb should be discontinued for environmental, transport and, of course, economic reasons.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e8760	Mr Moser is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e8781	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to say: If this question was to have had a meaning today, then certainly only in the form that the question of the Semmering base tunnel could be addressed once again. I believe that it is necessary for us to have a very intense political debate on this project. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! I am really grateful to you for the answer to the question, because your answers allow the critics to be absolutely right in this project. It appears once again that this project is not really useful for both transport policy and economic reasons, but also for ecological reasons. I think it is a serious political mistake to hold fast to any price. I tell you, it will be necessary to really discuss it very intensively. I would also like to tell you why. Let us begin with the question of transport policy. Federal Minister! From our point of view, this project is not possible in terms of transport policy, because, on the one hand, the utilization of the Semmering track is far from yet to be achieved. You yourself point out in your answer, on page 2, that the Semmeringberg track has a very high capacity and that this capacity has by far not been exhausted. Therefore, for capacity reasons, expansion is not really necessary. Secondly, The emphasis on the extension of the railway infrastructure is certainly not the construction of the railway over the mountains. Federal Minister! In view of the European dimension, I believe it is necessary, in particular, to connect the centres in Austria with the European transport network. In this context, I would like to point out that, in the case of the linkage of the Eastern European transport lines, the main routes will certainly not run through Austria, via the south railway, but primarily through the Hungarian region and through Slovenia and Croatia towards the Adriatic Sea. That means: European-wide, the priority is not to extend the South Railway, but to extend the East-West links, the South-East spange, over the Koralpe. The state of Carinthia should be connected accordingly, but not via Semmering. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edler.]] I'll be right there. Ladies and gentlemen! On another transport policy issue, there seems to be no single solution within the coalition. Within the Austrian People's Party, the country of Lower Austria takes action against the country of Styria, and there are contrasts within the coalition. The ÖVP is state-owned, as Mr Kukacka has explained in his statement today. He said that the project would be necessary from federal policy considerations. But immediately, Mr Kukacka, you said – I wrote it down – that: As long as the nature protection decisions do not exist and until the funding is clarified, we say no to this project. – And many points are unexplained, Mr Kukacka. These were also not put on the table by the Minister for Transport. Therefore, I do not think it is right to stick to this project: It is wrong to speak the word of this project. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that this project does not make sense for economic reasons either. The cost-benefit relationship is not at all correct: We spend over 6 billion schilling for a time profit of about 20 or 30 minutes, but we know that the time gained is immediately lost by the inadequate infrastructure at the railway stations, especially at the freight stations. Furthermore, funding is not ensured. There is a total confusion in this area at all. Former Minister of Transport Mag. Climate has declared that funding from the federal side is not in question. However, Mr Scholten said here: Maybe there's a possibility. – Offers should have been made by the beginning of the year. However, since no one has found himself, because this is linked to great uncertainties, the offer period is now extended: That means: Although the funding is unclear, this project is still a part of it. Ladies and gentlemen, just from the Social Democratic Party! Employment policy:...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e8826	Deputies! The final sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e8842	I would have expected you to pay particular attention to employment policy issues. On the question of Lambach, you have clearly recognized that large-scale projects do not have a major impact on employment policy, because large-scale machinery are mainly used. The same is true of this project. That is why, I think, it would be right to leave your hands on this project. It would be right to have a construction stop in the interest of the country and, above all, in the interest of the future generation, and to put the project ad acta. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e8872	No one has been reported in the word anymore. That concludes this debate. The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e8893	We are now returning to the debate on the declaration by the Federal Chancellor and Mr Vice-Chancellor. The next speech is by Mr Dr. König. Please, honourable Member. You have indicated a voluntary time limit of 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e8918	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Two days ago, last Sunday, the chairman of the Freedom Party, Dr. Haider, at the New Year's Meeting in Linz, said the following about the outcome of the coalition, and according to APA, all reports agree and are therefore probably correct. I quote: "The overall satisfaction of FPÖ-Bundesobmann Jörg Haider was shown today. SPÖ and ÖVP had largely negotiated the proposals for a free solution and demands. ... Haider is not yet satisfied with the agreement on the improvement of the small shareholders required by the liberal vehement." If one reads this and then compares it with what Haider said as the first speaker here, namely that the ÖVP would have prevented a real privatisation and that it would be a naked capitulation before the SPÖ, then one must ask: Did he not know what he was saying in Linz, or did he say something else here than he knows? For it is simply not acceptable and not credible to put such contradictions into the world and to think that they can get away with it unpunished. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Unfortunately, Mr Stadler is not here now, so that I can also address him. I would like to say that it is difficult to understand why you are not actually in favour of the success that Haider has emphasized in Linz. Because we have to admit... [[Abg. Böhacker: Is the ÖVP standing for their sayings? - No!]] Listen to me, I'll be right there. We must admit, after the joint motion for a resolution in the Federal Council, that it was only after the joint resolution that the coalition partner was willing to negotiate seriously those conditions which Haider said in Linz that he and his party had dictated them beforehand and that, as a result of the coalition negotiations, SPÖ and ÖVP had thoroughly negotiated these demands of the F. – So you had a success! Now that the result is available, do not confess to it! Now I come to your requests, which Mr Trattner has mentioned here. If the government agreement contains essentially what you - says Haider - in your demands, in the 17 points, you must, when it comes to you, be satisfied with this success and stand for it! It is totally unbelievable to say at once, only for formal reasons, in the moment when one has achieved what one has demanded: That's nothing worth it! - That's incomprehensible! This is also completely contrary to the state-bearing attitude shown in Linz, which at once, hardly any more, is sacrificed to the old opposition ritual. Mr Trattner! The individual applications are identical to what has been agreed here and concluded in the coalition, with very minor exceptions. I now make these requests individually: Application concerning the amendment of the Savings Act: It is wrong when Haider says that privatisation will only take place in seven years. – According to the agreement, 19 percent of shares in Bank Austria will be to be privatized as early as 1997. Within a maximum of five years, i.e.: Previously, everything that is over 25 percent will be too privatized, and only in recent years will it go down to less than 20 percent. Privatization is thus immediately being used, and it is increasing, not only in seven years! In the same way, savings laws are being amended in the Convention, and it is also in the Convention that liability fees must be paid if one does not prefer to waive liability. The next request concerning privatisation, which has not yet been submitted, but has already been announced by Mr Prinzhorn: On the request concerning the privatisation of State-owned undertakings which have not yet been submitted but which have been announced by Mr Prinzhorn: That is also the same thing in the agreement. The question of minority rights is the only point you can comment on in the direction that we have failed to achieve fully what we wanted together. But some of it has succeeded! Therefore, Haider did not say in Linz that nothing had happened in this regard. He said it didn't happen as the liberals wanted it to, they wanted to go on. That's the only difference. For it is planned that, per person and up to 200 000 S, there is the possibility of exchange or withdrawal in money, at a course that is better than the present, if – admittedly – it is not the same with the discount against speculation as that of Bank Austria. Mr Novotny has given the reasons for this: because of the prevention of speculation. On the other hand, Mr Trattner's last request, which refers to the euro, has nothing to do with it. This is not at all a debate in this context. That means: We have implemented in our agreements what ÖVP and FPÖ have understood as conditions for consent to Bank Austria. We – and this has been explained by our vice chancellor and also by the Minister of Economic Affairs here – were the only ones who have not preferred this solution. We have thought that the consortial solution would have been better because it would have been an Austrian solution with only 20 percent of foreign shares, because it would have brought international interdependence and scattering and would not have resulted in a monopoly. I do not want you to want it to be monopolized. But as a result, you wanted to merge Bank Austria and CA. It was known that this was the maximum bid, if one could also be of different opinion on the question of the best bid. And you said: However, there must be the realization of certain conditions. – These conditions have been worked out jointly, and finally agreement has been reached in the coalition. In fact, I should now turn to you from the FPÖ to ask the question: Will you now jump over the opposition shadow and agree to what you have agreed with us, what the government has now taken over and what corresponds to what is reasonable and what should be realized? Ladies and gentlemen! CA is a truly successful bank, a bank on expansion course, a bank with great international reputation. This development must not be threatened! This is primarily the responsibility of CA Boards and, above all, Bank Austria. But that was also our goal when we agreed on the conditions that are now to be fulfilled by the government. I therefore invite you, as an opposition, to make sure that these conditions are fulfilled on the spot and on the note.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e8963	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn. Please, honourable Member. The remaining time for your club is 8 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e8985	Mr President. Minister! High house! Mr King, it is directly touching – where are you? – as you are looking for the successes of privatisation and depoliticization on this deal: [[Abg. DDr. King: Here!]] [[Rejoicing]] Bank Austria – CA itself missing! This is touching, and I have to tell you: If someone is trying to do this, it deserves recognition! – I have to But tell them: We cannot understand what you want to sell here as your success! The year is quite young, and the "manager of the year" has already been elected. I have to say: It's never gone that fast! The Director-General of Bank Austria is certainly the man of the year already in early January. I just hope that it will not speed up the fate of most men of the year of the "trend" magazine. We firmly press the thumbs that this will not be the case! I would like to say to the ÖVP that it would have needed such negotiators for the Maastricht Treaties, then it might even have received our approval of the Maastricht Treaty. – Because if you send your mandates to the negotiations and say: The CA deal must be prevented, but at the same time, the coalition must not be put in place, then it is as similar as when I go to a customer and say: I must have the order at this price, no matter what the conditions are, but I must have the order. – I have to tell you: It doesn't work! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I also forgive Mr Randa for the word 'Fashingsscherz', since I know how difficult it is to negotiate in this country in half a discreet way, because in this country everyone is negotiating together. I also forgive Randa, because the task ahead of him is to make this cooperation or acquisition – in order to name this deal exactly – a success for Austria, and it will need the support of all. The capital square Austria or the Stock Exchange Square Vienna are undoubtedly required. The huge emissions that will now come to us – and they will have to come to us just so that this can be financed – will certainly be a special challenge. I have to tell you: A great privatisation wasn't that! If the municipality of Vienna does not grow up, then because the money is not there first and because it may be in conflict with the EU – and for no other reason! It will leave its capital participation in Bank Austria the same as it is, and the others will be increased according to the admission of the capital market. The fact is, however, that it will also dominate and lead with 10 or 20 percent participation in Bank Austria, which is, of course, in its wide distribution. It's internationally known. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Nor does the fee represent a large amount of revenue. It is the implementation of a directive of the European Union, and this directive will be transposed, no matter what the Germans do. The Germans are under the same pressure, see Westdeutsche Landesbank, which is also involved. So the penalty is not from you, but from Brussels. This must ultimately be laid down in order to comply with the competition laws. The same applies to "depoliticization": Where's a depoliticization? – This went to the government from the Minister. The proportion is back, but depoliticization can't be a talk! But the nail sample will be: Implementation of the amendment of the Savings Act and the cooperative law. You know that. Let's talk to the First Austrian club savings bank about which has already been discussed today. The Vice-Chancellor is also represented in this association. This club savings bank does not own anyone, 100 percent are owned by no one. You would have had the opportunity to market 51 percent of this association savings bank once and thus allow market-economy aspects to obtain money for a CA acquisition! – All of this, however, has unfortunately come to your mind too late! I have to tell you about the ÖVP: When the businessman Schönbichler was replaced by Mr Schimetschek, the alarm bells were already ringing, so one knew what would continue to happen at this First Austrian Saving Cass. One may be eager to see how the First Austrian continues. This will also be a central question in the new savings and cooperative law. That has often been said enough today. The lobby, which you stand there with your mayors, with your country politicians, but also federal politicians, should withdraw, for otherwise you do not come out of the glass crash, to have to throw stones out of the parliamentary king. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In the first few days of January it was also interesting to see, Mr Deputies, in the lobby community – between saubies and saucy hunting – a bit of who is rising or falling in favor. That's interesting. There with these lobbyists who are close to you, politics is being made. And I'll tell you: As long as this is the policy that dominates you, you will gain credibility neither in privatizations nor in other economic areas! The fact that this association finally made the race for the CA may not be a damage to Austria. I would have liked or recommended a better partner to the First General. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I can only tell you: If you want to cut the red savings bank and leave the black unscrupulous, then make a red and a black savings bank law! That would be so true to your feelings! That would suit you! And I'll tell you: If you don't change that, you can do the same with the savings banks as the CA! Just watch out! Therefore, I can only recommend: Take our privatisation requests seriously! We have distributed today the privatisation proposal and the resolution on the withdrawal of the parties from the National Bank. Take this seriously! Take this opportunity and pull yourself at your own lap – you could! - Out of the trash! We liberals are really just laughing at that very foamy. This may be a political happiness for us liberals, for we will soon be putting the government in this country. And believe me: The sooner we put the government, the less the damage will be to our country!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e9061	Mr Magistrate has now been reported to speak. Merchant. Please, honourable Member. Time remaining: 17 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e9083	Mr President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! The sale of CA to Bank Austria, I believe, is now adequately discussed. It has been found that the taxpayer is the big winner. I would therefore like to turn to another aspect of this issue, namely privatisation. – I am disturbed by the whole discussion that it is as if the participation of local authorities in enterprises would in principle be wrong, i.e. if a company in which a local authority is involved could not be competitive for fundamental reasons. – This argument is wrong, and it is also an advantage to the tens of thousands of employees in this area! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to point out to some examples from abroad that this assumption is wrong. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] I'll come to the country and I'll talk to you too. In Germany, participations by the German Länder in individual companies and companies are quite commonplace, for example in the banking sector, and these companies are going very well. The Westdeutsche Landesbank owns 43 percent of the state of North Rhine-Westphalia, 23 percent have municipal associations there, 33 percent of the savings banks of this country. The Westdeutsche Landesbank is about two and a half to three times the size of Bank Austria and CA. Westdeutsche Landesbank has a stake of more than 25 percent in Preussag AG, and this group again employs 65 000 employees in 240 subsidiary companies and makes a total turnover of 26 billion D-Mark. A second example: At the Norddeutsche Landesbank, the state of Lower Saxony has a 40 per cent stake, the state of Saxony-Anhalt has a 10 per cent stake, and the country of Vorpommern also has a 10 per cent stake. The Norddeutsche Landesbank is slightly larger than Bank Austria and CA together. This bank has a 16.9 percent stake in Continental AG, and we all know that it was an essential strategic advantage for the country of Lower Saxony to have this participation and that the position of the state of Lower Saxony in the case of Semperit was much better, because it has this participation in Continental AG. In addition, the state of Lower Saxony has a 100 percent stake in the Hanoverian Participation GmbH, which again holds 20 percent of Volkswagen AG. Mr. Minister! You mentioned earlier in the urgent request that you are characterised by the economic programme of the CDU/CSU. – For example, from Bavaria: The Free State of Bavaria holds 50 percent at the Bayerische Landesbank Girozentrale, the other 50 percent have the Bavarian savings banks and Giroverbands. The Bayerische Landesbank Girozentrale is almost twice as large as CA and Bank Austria. In addition, the country of Bavaria has a 25.3 percent stake in VIAG AG, which in turn employs 84 000 employees and makes sales of 42 billion D-Mark. . I believe that the German economy is a quite competitive economy, and it is true that there is a good deal of public ownership and the participation of countries. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Even in the Austrian federal states, it is not much different – and I think it is a good thing. You should also create the same scale everywhere. – I would like to mention a few examples from Lower Austria. They all know that the country of Lower Austria holds more than 50 percent of the EVN, the country's energy supply company. The EVN is currently buying up shares of the joint venture – with knowledge of all parties – and at the same time it has bought almost 50 percent of the shares of Burgenland-Holding. - Where is the cry of the ÖVP? Where is the same effort you have made in the case of Vienna? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Further example: In Niederösterreich Volksbanken AG participated in the Hypo-Landesbank. There have been detailed discussions to this end. It was quite clear within the parties of Lower Austria – the ÖVP, SPÖ and FPÖ – that it was seeking and will that the country of Lower Austria retain a decisive influence on the Land Bank. – Where is your eternal discussion about privatisation? Another example: Half a year ago, a Dutch Telekom Service GmbH was founded in Lower Austria. In this way, 50 percent of the EVN and 50 percent of the state of Lower Austria are involved. - Where's the call of the ÖVP? Is this the same scale as in your discussion in the field of CA privatisation? And in the end: The country of Lower Austria holds 11.6 percent of the shares in the German insurance scheme. Ladies and gentlemen! I consider this public participation to be correct and important – and not wrong. However, I want to see the same level applied everywhere. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There must not be something that is right in Upper Austria, Salzburg and Lower Austria, suddenly in the case of the municipality of Vienna. You must either apply the same scale or correct your opinion! – I would prefer you to correct your opinion. I believe that at the end of the day it is important that we have undertakings capable of securing jobs, providing good wages and salaries and good working conditions, and that the question of the owner is put into the background. After all, this is a strategic and not an ideological question. We should see this and discuss it honestly in the future. One argument in one country must also be valid for other countries. Nor should we make a form of ownership out of a spiteful reaction, namely the involvement of local authorities in enterprises, because we will still need this form of participation bitterly necessary! – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e9174	The request previously made by Mr Prinzhorn in his main points was properly submitted, duly supported, was distributed in the hall and is therefore under negotiation. The motion for a resolution reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e9241	Mr Böhacker is now on the floor. Please, honourable Member. You have a remaining speaking time of 1 minute.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e9263	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! In addition to Mr Prinzhorn's comments, I should like to make the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I'm looking for your support.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e9313	The request just read has been properly submitted and sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The next speech is by Mrs Huber. Please, ladies and gentlemen. Time left: 9 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e9337	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! High house! Mr Prinzhorn! I do not share your confidence that with this blue mouthwater you have found the magic instrument for coming to the government shortly. They still have to take a lot of it. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Against mouth smell! Try it once! - What are you rinsing your mouth with?]] The reason why I call you my very rough voice at the end of this debate is not in this... – Mr President, I do not know how much you need to wash your mouth. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You took the wrong mouthwater! – Blue water with long-term effect!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: I can recommend this! Blue water against oral odor with long-term effect!]] I'm gonna take care of it because it looks very toxic. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I do not want to talk about the first, second, or even third winner of the CA sales now, but it is about me – my previous speaker has already mentioned this – that all jobs in this country should be of equal value. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You have taken the wrong mouthwater for your voice!]] I think that we are very well advised in this House when we are doing with extreme care in the reorganisation of the Austrian credit industry. I am very surprised that there is this great euphoria: Privatize at all costs – "less state, more private". I would be wary of such general statements. And especially today's unconditional advances regarding the complete departure, for example the municipal liability for municipal savings banks, I cannot help but mean that it is a question of creating an blatant competitive disadvantage for a particular credit institution group. For me, it is incomprehensible – not only because I come from this area – that a sector is imposed on a competitive disadvantage by law, which may even lead to a breakdown, while other competitive advantages, such as country liability for mortgage banks or capital advantages in the cooperative sector, are actually not discussed. I am of the opinion that Austria needs large banks, the economy needs them, but Austrian consumers also need smaller, regionally connected institutions, because these are part of regional infrastructure and in many ways, in the field of sport, cultural sponsorship, also part of regional and local social life. We will therefore be well advised to have such a discussion with all caution, namely the caution that is needed in the field of money. The Austrian economy, especially the credit economy with the many people working directly or indirectly in this field, and especially the Austrians, who as consumers should have the opportunity to choose their own money institution, have the greatest interest in ensuring that the Austrian banking industry can prepare itself for the requirements of the future without theatre, without turbulence and with the necessary discretion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e9421	No one has been reported in the word, so the debate is closed. We are entering the voting procedure. I would therefore ask you to take your place. I ask the staff to gradually remove themselves from the corridors between the seats. – I can again call on you to take the places. We first come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr. Haselsteiner and Mr Comrades on the creation of a privatisation law in the banking sector. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. We shall also vote on the request for a deadline to be set by the Financial Committee for Reporting on the motion for a resolution 45/A (E) by Mr Böhacker and Mr Comrades on the indirect promotion of risk capital until 21. January 1997. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Petrovic and Mr Comrades on the employment offensive. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Petrovic and Mr Comrades on the reform of the Vienna Stock Exchange. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Trattner and comrades on strengthening the position of minority shareholders. In the event of your consent, I ask you for a sign to be given. – This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Members. Trattner and comrades on the submission of a report by the Federal Minister for Finance on the restructuring of the local credit industry. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. We shall also proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Members. Trattner and comrades concerning the amendment of the Savings Act. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. We shall also proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Members. Trattner and comrades on the reform of cooperative law. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Haselsteiner and others on the creation of a right of readmission in accordance with international standards. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr. Haselsteiner and Mr Comrades on the amendment of the Savings Act. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall also proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr. Novotny, Dr. Stummvoll and comrades on future business in privatisation and capital market reform following the CA sale. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. The request was accepted. (E 39.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn and comrades with regard to the rapid privatisation of companies and parts of companies still in state ownership. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. This request was made by 20 Members, so the vote must be taken. That's why I'm doing the same thing. I shall vote in such a way that Members are called in alphabetical order and that the vote from the square of Members is taken orally. I ask Members to rise from the square for the purpose of the vote after the call for name and to reply loud and clearly either with "yes" or "no". By repeating the name of the honourable Member and by reflecting his voting behaviour, I will add clarity to the voting behaviour. If a Member is not present, I will expressly note this. Ladies and gentlemen! I'll get to the name call.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e9644	For the purpose of counting the votes, I interrupt the sitting. The sitting was suspended. (The competent officials shall take the vote. – The meeting was suspended at 8.40 p.m. and resumed at 8.46 p.m.)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e9673	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote: 44 "Yes" votes and 124 "No" votes were made. The request did not find the majority. With "Yes", the Members voted: Apple beck, Aumayr; Bauer Holger, Blünegger, Böhacker, Brauneder; Dolnschek; Förlinger; Count, Gredler, Grollitsch; Haigermoser, Haller, Hazelsteiner, Haupt, Hofmann; Young; Kier, Koller, Krüger; Lauter; Madl, Meisinger, Mentil, Moser Hans Helmut, Motter; Nut trees; Of which: Partik-Pablé, Povysil, Prinzhorn, Pumberger; Reichhold, Rosenstingl, Ruthofer; Salzl, Schaffenrath, Scheibner, Schöggl, Schreiner, Schweitzer, Stadler; Trattner; Wenitsch. With 'No', the Members voted: Ablinger, Achs, Antoni, Auer, Bauer Rosemarie, Bauer Sophie, Binder, Brinek, Brix, Buder, Bures; Cap; Dietachmayr, Donabauer, Dunst; Eder, Ederer, Edler, Ellmauer, Elmecker, Fekter, Feurstein, Fink, Freser, Fuchs, Fuhrmann; Gaal, Gartlehner, Gatterer, Grabner, Gradwelt, Großruck, Guggenberger, casting builder; Hagenhofer, Haidlmayr, Heindl, Hlavac, Höchtl, Horngacher, Hostash, Huber; hunters; Kaipel, Kammerlander, Kampichler, Karlsson, Kaufmann, Doppelmüller, Khol, Kiermaier, Kiss, König, Koppler, Kostelka, Herbs, Kröll, Kukacka, Kummer, Kurzbauer; Lacner, Langthaler, Leikam, Leiner, Luke; Maderthaner, Maier, Maitz, Marizzi, Mertel, Mock, Morak, Moser Sonja, Mühlbachler, Müller, Murauer; Neisser, Niederwieser, Nowotny, Nürnberger; Oberhaidinger, Ollinger, Onodi; Perfuss, Parnigoni, Pittermann, Platter, Posch, Puttinger; Rada, Rasinger, Rauch-Kallat, Rider, Riepl; Sauer, Schirder, Schrefel, Schuster, Schwarzböck, Schwarzenberger, Schwemmlein, Seidinger, Sigl, Silhavy, Spindelegger, Stampler, Steibl, Steindl, Stippel, Stummful; Tegischer, Tichy-Schreiter, Drinkl, Tychtl; For the purposes of this Regulation, Wabl, Wallner, Wimmer, Worm, Wormitzer; Zweytick.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e9841	We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Stadler and comrades on withdrawal of party policy from the National Bank. I would ask you to take the place for the purposes of the vote. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. That concludes the voting procedure. The next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business communications and allocations, will be convened at 8.48 p.m. This is immediately after this meeting. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00055_d7e9883	I would also like to say that at today's sitting, the self-employed were brought up against 375/A to 379/A (E). Questions 1728/J to 1824/J were also raised. Finally, a request from the honourable Member is Mag. Dr Petrovic and comrades were brought to the President of the National Council. The sitting is closed.
