ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e2346	Ladies and gentlemen! I'll open the 70. Meeting of the National Council. The Official Protocol of 69. Meeting of 10. In April 1997, the Parliament's Directorate remained inconsistencies and inconsistencies. For today's meeting day as prevented, MEPs are reported Dr. Preisinger, Rosenstingl, Dr. Kier, Haigermoser, Schaffenrath, Fink, Gatterer, Dr. Puttinger, Elmecker, Dr. Hlavac, Dr. Salzl, Dr. Partik-Pablé and Dkfm. Holger Bauer. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e2383	The Federal Chancellery issued the following communication for this meeting on a resolution by the President of the Federal Government concerning the representation of a member of the government: The Federal Minister for Women's Affairs Mag. Barbara Prammerwill be represented by Federal Minister Dr. Caspar. Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e2413	We'll get to the current hour. The following topic has been proposed: Modern media in the network of search methods The business regulations are known. I call Mr Barmüller. After him, the Federal Minister for Justice will give an opinion. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e2446	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We have put the current hour under this issue because we are convinced that the debate that is currently taking place on the new media in the political field is very one-sided. In the past, there have been some examples that have shown that political hysteria is obviously responding to new media, which is not necessary – in fact – and that in particular the economic dimension that is in the new media that can open these new media – I am also speaking specifically of the Internet – will be forgotten. We therefore believe that it is necessary to make a change in the focus of the discussion and to come to the legal framework necessary for Austria to be able to reach a corresponding position in the field of new media. The policy of dealing with the new media, with the Internet, focuses on saying: That is something that must be monitored, that is something to be restricted, that is something which must at least be monitored very rigorously! Ladies and gentlemen! We believe that it is wrong to concentrate mainly on grid surveillance and noise attack in this context. It will be a very central question to what extent the new media will be applied in this area and how this will happen. We believe that we should focus on the economic dimension of the new media in the discussion. – This has not yet been perceived here. There are more examples of this not only in the House. It is no different for the social partners, too, because the discussion among the social partners is not one that would have covered the economic dimension, for example, of the Internet. Then: The most recent brochure of the Chamber of Commerce – which came out in March 1997 – is titled with: "Departing into the Age of Global Competition". As far as the use of new information technologies is concerned, you will find a single mention on page 15 and, of course, there is only the indication that there is a reservation system in tourism. – It is true that there are, ladies and gentlemen, but that is far too short. This is not what characterises the new media in economic life. If you have a discussion with economic operators on this issue – take HP, for example; a company that is very active in this field – then you will learn that in this area a proactive approach is required by policy. This is necessary. It is necessary that policies provide for the framework conditions which give the companies that are already in this field a certain amount of investment security. I have here a graphic – it has also been published – that shows you how the number of connections has developed on the Internet [[The speaker shows]] Ladies and gentlemen! Look From 1995 onwards — January 1995, July 1995, January 1996, July 1996, January 1997, you will see that almost 900 000 connections have already been reached from below 100 000 connections. Ladies and gentlemen! That is something we should not overlook in the discussion. This is a clear indication of the fact that this area is in line with the rules which are intended to bring about a continuous and not limited development in this area, as is the case at present. [[The speaker gives the Federal Minister Dr. Michalek and Mag. Lock a copy of the graphic.]] – So that it does not mean that the opposition to information with the government is in the same way as the government in the information of the opposition, I have given it to you right now. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] In particular, it is for me to point out, ladies and gentlemen, that, in this development, it has so far been strongly anchored in the private sector, it is a crucial problem for companies that we still have telecommunications charges and charges in Austria, which are opposed to a truly broad use. We keep going the way of comparison with the Nordic states, we say again and again that these are states that are comparable to Austria. But in Sweden, Finland and Norway, these media are used to a much higher degree. Sweden also has such an extremely high density of mobile phone use – around 23 percent of all connections in Sweden are mobile phones. In Austria, this figure is less than 5 percent. This is something that is not directly related to the two ministers sitting here on the Government Bank, but to the Minister who has been transferred from the Inner Region to the Transport Region. To date, he has not managed to forward a new Telecommunication Act to Parliament, which ensures that we have charges in the field of communications technologies which make it possible for the economy to make real use of these technologies. Ladies and gentlemen! The last point in this context: It is also necessary to build confidence in the security of the new media. That too is something that can only be done with appropriate political treatment. However, I do not want to resort to the example that moved the Austrian media just a few weeks ago. There has been a seizure of computer equipment from a provider, i.e. an internet provider. This action was overwhelming – that is undisputed. And it was an action, ladies and gentlemen, which was not conducive to confidence in the new media. I know that, in this context, an investigative judge, who is also active in the political field, has apparently been given priority to her personal-political profile and not so much the appropriate treatment of the problem. Because, on the basis of an advertisement made in Germany in February of the previous year and which came to Austria at the beginning of 1997, an Internet service provider issued a house search warrant with the order to seize there – this house search order was issued on 20 February. Declared on February 20th and executed on March 20th – is already strange. These computers were then simply taken off the net by the executive – not by storing the data or the like, which would have been more useful to the legal pursuit than the concrete procedure. It is clear that the field cannot really be developed, especially for companies who trust that Internet services are available to them, with such a process by the state towards private operators. That this causes damage, ladies and gentlemen, is not only claimed, but it is also proven. I didn't have to look for long to find someone who, as he himself says, was damaged by this "unplanned out-of-service operation of the computer systems" of his provider. That's something you can find all over. – I therefore mention this example, because it is an example from Styria, it concerns a civil engineer in Liezen. Ladies and gentlemen! They will admit that reading is not exactly the focus of Austria's economic activity. But if there are entrepreneurs there with the help of new media to ensure better access to the market and provide services on which they depend significantly, then then not by the state in a superfluous, hysterically perceived – I say it now – form of grid search and noise attack – new media, very needy of surveillance – these services should simply and simply be cut off without informing the people before. They will also be able to admit that a civil engineer from Liezen, who is associated with companies in Vienna and Graz, makes digitalized plans, sends them over the Internet, has to be able to trust that this will be possible in the future and will not be simply cut off without warning, nor by means of a procedure which was not at all appropriate for the prosecution of law. This, ladies and gentlemen, is measures that are not targeting that do not increase confidence in the new media. In a communication to the Council, the EU Commission says that 27. 11th@item: inlistbox 1996 is the following: Another key factor for the success of the information society is its social acceptance. Ladies and gentlemen! We must create those conditions so that social acceptance is also given in this regard. We must decide what adjustments we need in the Consumer Protection Act to ensure that consumer protection is also provided for trade via the Internet. We need to consider what needs to be done so that financial transactions over the Internet are also possible. Should there be something like a provider's secret, for example, as there is banking secrecy today, when financial transactions are handled through private providers? We must consider, ladies and gentlemen, and legally determine to what extent encryption can be done if there is to be an electronic signature. And we also need to consider the extent to which new media should be accessible to the administration when it comes to authorisation procedures when it comes to registration and cancellation of social security. We could save a lot of money. Ladies and gentlemen! In conclusion: In this House, too, we are constantly talking about the information society, and it is undisputed that we are exposed to it. But the information society is not a challenge of the future, ladies and gentlemen, but it is a challenge of the present.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e2571	The Minister for Justice has referred to the opinion. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e2592	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I agree with my previous speaker that the Internet has now established itself as one of the most important building blocks for a global information society and structure in recent years, but also as a major catalyst for the information society in Europe. An economic sector has developed, which is a powerful, fast-growing industry. At the same time, the Internet also exerts a tremendous influence on social life and also on cultural matters: It makes many information available to our citizens, it reduces the barriers to the procurement and distribution of information content, and it also offers a new level of interpersonal communication. So the Internet is a medium that offers new opportunities to perceive. We must not forget, however, that there are new dangers. As fascinating as the possibilities of a world networked via the Internet may be, this fascination must not lead to the omission of necessary border tensions. Freedom must also be found in this area in any case where it concerns the protection of individual and society from dubious economic practices or even criminal acts. The increasing importance of the new media for our society has also been recognized by the Federal Ministry of Justice. We are particularly concerned about the need for adaptation or the further development of the legal framework. There must be consensus over one thing: There is also a need for a minimum level of regulation with regard to the new media. This does not mean the call for a censorship of the Internet, but takes into account the realization that, with all the freedom of communication and the exchange of information, the Internet must not exist almost in a non-lawful space. In the tension between freedom of information and communication on the one hand and personal protection, property rights, data protection and the protection of public security on the other, there is a consensus of values established by constitutional law as a framework for print media and letter communication. This consensus is also valid in the new field. However, this is also about the free development of new information and communication technologies on the basis of uniform, fair framework conditions. For example, the rules on data protection, data security, copyright or consumer protection will not least need to be examined for their applicability in judicial proceedings. However, the aim is by no means to take a new medium with excessive measures to the kandare, but rather to protect borders from undesirable economic practices and criminal abuse. The fact that such boundaries should not apply to the Internet, which can eventually also potentiate criminal possibilities, cannot be justified. Especially in the context of the media-wide, but completely unilateral, confiscation process addressed by my previous speaker, which, moreover, has led to a strengthening of the suspicion of the spread of child pornography – to say more specifically, I would like to leave to the Minister of the Interior for criminal reasons at this stage of the procedure – the question of any criminal responsibility of the network service provider for the content of the network was raised. In my opinion, this can be resolved satisfactorily, as a result of the existing provisions: If an operator is aware that information with criminal content is offered in his service, and if he accepts such information in his consent, he himself shall carry out the corresponding criminal record. Furthermore, a criminally sanctioned obligation to search the data stocks on the network regularly for illegal content will not normally be given. Therefore, the fears expressed at all levels after an endless expansion of the liability of providers are unfounded. High house! Recognising the new developments, the Federal Government set up the working group "Austria's way to the information society" in July 1995 in order to address the challenges of new information and communication technologies in a comprehensive manner. One of the working groups involved was concerned with the extent to which the dissemination and application of these technologies creates protective gaps and therefore requires legislative action to create specific provisions. In identifying a legislative need for action and in any future legislative steps, constitutional aspects as well as aspects of telecommunications, as well as from the point of view of the Federal Ministry of Justice, are particularly addressed to the security authorities and the legal basis for their action. Consideration should be given, for example, to setting minimum standards for network providers and users as well as sanctions for their infringement. In doing so, self-control of operators will be an important task to complement and contribute to the implementation of existing legislation. Such measures seem to me to be far more appropriate to combat abuses quickly and efficiently than the use of classical criminal law, which in the cross-border field also encounters inevitable practical difficulties. But also in the field of civil law, it is important to resolve a number of issues that the Internet raises as a new medium of communication. Some of these questions have already been raised. For example, the issues of consumer protection – we are currently preparing the implementation of the distance selling directive already adopted by the European Council – or the issues of electronic signature and cryptography in electronic form, as well as of the conclusion of the contract via the Internet. In this area, Austria is following with great attention the regulatory efforts in other countries and at international level. Overall, solutions to this regulatory complex will only be found within the framework of international cooperation and in an internationally coordinated way, in line with the possibilities on the Internet to ask and pass on information worldwide. Austria must therefore in particular take part in the development of the European Union and take action in the European context. Substantial preparatory work has already been carried out for this purpose. The European Commission's Green Paper on the protection of young people and the protection of human dignity in the audiovisual information services, as well as a communication from the European Commission on illegal and harmful content on the Internet, which is currently being discussed in depth by the European bodies. Austria has already submitted its opinion in this context. Ladies and gentlemen! The rapid development of information and communication technologies, which has led to the formation of new media, is a major challenge for society as a whole. The task of the experts in all the sectors concerned will therefore be to examine the further technical development and the dissemination and application of new technologies with a view to any recognizable regulatory deficits. In the national field, the various competences will be coordinated and regulatory efforts will be forced at international level – at least in the European context. In terms of content, I recognise the need to find a balanced way between the laisser-fair of falsely understood liberalism and censorship-like regulation in all regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e2667	Thank you, Minister of State. In the next debate, the speaking time is 5 minutes each. Mrs Dr Schmidt came to speak.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e2695	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! I fully agree with you, Mr Minister, that it is a matter of balance to deal with dangers on the one hand and not to overregulate on the other. That is why we have made this issue the subject of a current hour today. I do not just want to use the word "expressive" but rather the word "opportunity". We believe that the Internet and modern communication techniques are an opportunity for democracy, an opportunity for an open society and for international understanding. Because this is the case, it is necessary to deal with it and reduce fears. For when I say 'a chance for democracy', I also believe that the Internet should be used for the communication of authorities and public authorities with the citizen in order to involve people in will-building processes much more in the way they are provided with information and thus encourage them to participate in democracy. Everything connected with it should be recognized as an opportunity. I also see the Internet as a further opportunity, particularly in view of the fact that it is, so to speak, a white spot on the map of the legislative will of parliamentarians. "Parliamentarians" means the majority of those who agree on arrangements. As long as this "white spot" still exists, there is a chance to make the right measure and, above all, to focus on what liberals are particularly concerned about: the fundamental rights of citizens. Modern information technologies are particularly concerned with privacy and the protection of citizens' fundamental rights. Minister! You have said here that, in your opinion, the operator would, if he recognized a criminal offence, thus carry out the crime to be punishable. It seems to me like you're saying that the letter carrier... [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Michalek.]] This seems to me to be a permissible comparison if you want to make the operator punishable for something that runs over its rails. They do not make the post office, the post office, or the post in any way punishable for what happens to criminal offences via their channels. That's exactly an analogy if you were to act like that. When I talk about fundamental rights, it is to a great extent also about the climate in a society. What You want to reach them with reporting points, is nothing but calling the others to approach. They want to leave to the subjective sense of the individual what is punishable and what is not and what he might think might be pornographic and not what. Please don't misunderstand me: No one here in the high house would probably be so flat and say I would want to make pornography the wall! I am concerned with determining who has to decide and judge what is punishable and what is not. In my opinion, this should remain in the hands of the judges. But as you imagine, it looks like you wanted to involve the whole society. I don't wonder. But I have also spoken about this because I also want to take the opportunity to warn about noise attack and grid arrest again. I don't wonder if you all want to be hostageed here, and if you want to be sure of the help of the others in the investigation of crimes. They make all citizens into potential perpetrators with the noise attack and with the grid search – should they actually come as planned. They're doing the presumption of innocence. I do not want to miss an opportunity to stress this again and again. I have read in the 'Salzburger Nachrichten' about the concern that in the future also in the confessional, lawyers or in the editorial work could be heard, and I hear that the honourable Member Khol rejects this only insofar as he thinks that you will certainly not be heard in the confessional. This fills me with concern, because I know what that means for the editorial offices, for lawyers and for all professions whose practice is based on a trust principle. You ruin the principle of trust by yawning it out by reversing it and running every single risk of being stopped when he talks with someone else who would be protected from trust.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e2743	I would ask for the final sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e2758	Therefore, I appeal to see the Internet as an opportunity for reasonable regulations and the current hour as a warning against noise attack and grid arrest.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e2789	The next speaker was Mr Jarolim. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e2810	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I can follow the remarks of my previous speakers on many points. However, I would like to point out that the two words of the Liberal Forum have given the impression that the Internet would be more or less just a protection of the Liberal Forum. It has been said that in some cases a hysterical debate would be held here and the government of the great coalition would lead to a threat to the Internet. – I would like to keep my mind on that. I do not think that the debate on this subject should be held in this way. Rather, one should try to deal with this subject in a factual way, and one should not be emotionalized by such statements. Mr Barmüller asked to take account of the fact that the Internet is an economic power and that there will be no intensive consultation with this matter and the opening of the Austrian market for new media. This fact is certainly correct, but it is also important to deal critically with a number of other points. It is clear to us that we are moving towards a global information society, so that it is absolutely necessary to open up the market for new media, to inform us by means of new media, to align education and to open up the widest possible range of communication. On the other hand, as with any medium, it can also become abuses. This includes not only child pornography, but also national socialist propaganda, the glorification of violence, evil renunciation as well as competition and copyright infringements. All this is happening again and again. It is not only with the desire to prevent it, it is important to find reasonable international regulations with which to set corresponding barriers. On this basis, it is only possible to underline what the Minister has said. It is evident in a wealth of international agreements and regulations that development is often taking place not only in the legislative field, but also in places where operators themselves are subject to a certain scheme. I am thinking in this context of the example of international civil aviation. There have been attempts for years to revise existing liability schemes internationally, and they have been implemented as voluntary regulations of the aviation industry itself much earlier than this would have been possible under international law. – In the present case too, it should be possible for providers to get through to certain self-regulatory schemes internationally, thus minimizing most of the real problems and dangers from the outset. If you want to discuss this, you have to explain to the public the form in which the Internet is already used worldwide. It should be pointed out that a total of 70 000 networks in more than 100 countries already have 40 million participants worldwide and that in Today, the United States of America is already 7 billion schillings per year from purchases over the Internet. As a result, it is necessary to deal with this – an appropriate EU directive already exists – how purchases are handled, which protection mechanisms exist and how consumer protection is respected. With regard to the question of whether there is a legal space or whether there are already rules, it can be pointed out that there is already an extensive regulation regarding secret data – e-mails – through the telecommunications secret, which is secured by the State Basic Law and the Convention on Human Rights, as well as in the simple legal area by means of provisions in the Criminal Procedure. The present incident has shown how to avoid dealing with provisions of the Criminal Procedure: for example, one year after an application has been made, to carry out the plug out of the computer network. To sum up, I would like not to conclude from this individual occasion that there is a huge need for regulation in a empty space. It's not like that. There may well be an instrument at national level which must be aligned accordingly. In addition, there must also be an international regulation with the involvement of the providers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e2861	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Fekter. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e2883	Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, High house! The increasing importance of the network is undisputed; it has already been said today. Abuse which happens on the web is persecuted and therefore it is entitled to apply arrest methods. Mr Barmüller! I do not think that the proper application of arrest methods is a threat to the network as a whole. But I agree with you that the confiscation and search of the house is evidence of a lack of knowledge from my point of view of the executive and the judicial system in terms of how to deal with such things. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Pulling out the plug is usually the wrong variant; that is the once-one of a user. I would like to see executives and justice as soon as possible deal with the possibilities of the network and the new media in order to apply the right measures in law enforcement and in law enforcement methods. The right measures can be of a variety of nature, because this depends on whether they are secret or public, whether they are homepages or newsgroups that are accessible to all or more users, or whether they are e-mails for which, as my previous speaker has already noted, we have telecommunication law and letter secrecy as a protection mechanism. There must be a different approach. The search on the network is highly problematic because it is not limited to Austrian users or Austrian providers, but because the Internet is characterised by internationality. Tracking methods can only meet the provider himself with Austrian providers and do not use them if, for example, the Austrian provider is used to reach users and consumers abroad. This is why international cooperation is of particular importance. I therefore ask Mr Schlögl to comment on the following facts: As early as September last year, we adopted a resolution that would have been a central reporting point which would have been intended to show reports of child pornography or other criminal offences on the Internet. It would be interesting to know what has become of it and how many cases have already taken place and then have led to another persecution – except for the case that has obviously been handled very spectacularly, but, internationally, has done more harm to the reputation of our prosecution than has benefited. In this current hour, of course, the question must be raised as to whether our current legal situation is sufficient. . I believe that in the medium term we cannot avoid supplementing some of the rules we have in individual legislation by means of concrete measures relating to the Internet. In connection with this, I would like to point out that Austria does not allow arrests on the basis of the search term alone, because this would be an exploration certificate but is prohibited in Austria. Germany knows the search on the network very well. I believe that we have to deal increasingly with the question of how we can make regular access to the network not only possible, but also secure, because the economic importance of the network is undisputed, especially if the law in force in criminal proceedings, telecommunications law, letter secrecy, data protection and whatever is not enough. As the need for action will increase, I believe it is undisputed.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e2940	The next speaker was Mr Krüger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e2961	Mr. Federal Minister! Mr President. High house! I am going fully in line with Mr. Dr. Michalek, who believes that we must approach the problem of liability for Internet providers with utmost care from the legislator, but also from the government side. Finally, it is about safeguarding fundamental rights: On the one hand, we have the fundamental right to freedom of information, the fundamental right to freedom of communication, on the other hand, freedom, as Mr. Federal Minister Dr. Michalek correctly stated, cannot be boundless and naturally has its limitations there, finds its end where other fundamental rights are involved. That is already the principle of the unity of our federal constitution. Ladies and gentlemen! If I correctly interpret the words of Mr Michalek's Federal Minister for the above-mentioned criminal case and consider that, as I know, the Minister of State tends to be more careful to explain matters relating to a ongoing procedure, then I am not unaware of the fact that, in a specific case, the suspicion of the spread of child pornography was a matter of concern. In other words, the measure put forward may well have hardened the suspicion of the spread of child pornography. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! What bothers me, in particular, in the debates of the Liberal Forum, but also in other debates, is that, while everyone is strong in the protection of Internet providers, there is very little talk of protecting young people and protecting them from child pornography. Ladies and gentlemen! This is the essential element, that is to say, this is the occasion, namely that a serious case of child pornography must be combated. Ladies and gentlemen! The legislator cannot now simply reject it, and the less the courts may do so on the grounds that: There can be no liability for the content of this modern means of communication! If you allow it to be used, child pornography is fully approved. That can't happen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It also constitutes a clear recognition of the situation of the law when it is mentioned that the investigation measure was not legally covered in the case in question. Mr Barmüller, look at the provisions of the Telecommunications Act! It states that the network operator must take all appropriate measures to prevent the misuse of the telecommunications system. That means, ladies and gentlemen, Let us take up the prejudice that we are in a completely legal space! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There are very specific stocks of protection. – However, I do not know that there is a need for action – the empty ferenda. Let us look at the United States of America. There is a distinction between the liability of the access operators and the liability of the content operators or providers. Access providers provide only telecommunications. Of course, there is no limitless liability for the content. But otherwise it is in the case of the content providers. Ladies and gentlemen! It is very important that this problem be discussed, but it is completely incorrect if one believes that the legislator and the courts have to be completely contained there, just because some Internet providers let the muscles play. Where youth protection is concerned, where protection from child pornography is concerned, the level of care cannot be set high enough. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is not that we all have to capitulate. It should be checked whether a selective barrier to the dissemination of child pornography is possible. If there is a positive knowledge of the provider that child pornography, that criminal content is broadcast, the legislator cannot withdraw and capitulate.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e3031	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Stoisits. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e3052	Dobro jutro, poštovane lady i gospodo! Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! I am astounded at the fact that a lawyer as successful and intelligent as Dr. Krüger in himself has given us such a one-sided and so populist short address. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] It is actually your business with which you earn your living that you protect providers to whom you just pull the plug out as a lawyer! And here, in my eyes – at least from the legal point of view and from your profession – you make such a sad idea. Dr. Krüger, this is a question of freedom of expression! [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Mr Krüger understands more than you do!]] This is the centre of this case, which the Liberal Forum has initiated to discuss today. It is really incredible if you want to put some of the colleagues of the National Council here to defend child pornography. For God's sake! Were you not present when we decided here two years ago to take very sharp measures against child pornography, which were removed from the legal system that was then in force? But, Dr. Krüger: You don't protect children by pulling plugs out of computers. There are very different measures needed to actually and effectively protect children and young people. That is where the National Council is called on to act! But these are two things that need to be done in parallel, and that is what we call for. [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] I am grateful to the Liberal Forum for this initiative, because now we have the opportunity to show how bizarre this whole thing is. Mrs. Fekter said: Appropriate application of safety authorities is required here. – It would also be fair and intelligent to take action not only by security authorities but also by judicial authorities. I have read that one year after these suspicions occurred, the competent examiner, who is by chance also a member of this House, has adopted this measure. This does not seem to me to be just an appropriate and efficient approach. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! This is a matter in which the Internet is to be considered as a mass communication device. This is something – I admit – where both the authorities and politicians are still on white ice, so to speak. The Internet, a mass communication device, is not yet in the minds of all inside – even in the minds of legislators. In my view, therefore, it is a priority concern that we do not rely on the Ministry or the security authorities to act now, which have already proved that they do not understand much, but little, of proper application of plug-out. We here in the House should be active and act in a similar way to what we did in the genetic engineering complex a few years ago when the National Council set up a committee of inquiry, which at that time did valuable preliminary work. We should become active and here in the House deal with this new challenge and with the new dangers associated with it. It is also a question of preventing censorship, because we believe that the right to freedom of expression and the safeguarding of the secret of the editors must be taken into account. On the other hand, we are moving in the direction of saying: The censorship must remain in the hands of users. This could be a directive for the now necessary action. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, this is also interesting in relation to other measures which have a lot of activities in the National Council and in the public authorities, namely in relation to grids and noises. When it comes to suspending citizens to the "great noise attack", politics is very imaginative. There is a very intense discussion, and nothing can go fast enough. Ladies and gentlemen! Child pornography and Nazi propaganda are things that we must take extremely seriously. But I also plead to keep cool heads and....
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e3101	Talk time, please!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e3116	... to initiate appropriate legislation.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e3146	The Minister of the Interior is next to speak. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e3168	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to try to highlight this problem a little bit from another side and also to defend the official acts that have taken place, because I am convinced that they are to be defended and that the procedure has been correct and correct both by the judicial authority, by the judge and by the security bodies. Many of you have correctly noted that the appeal of the Internet is its diversity and that the immense amount of data is the high value of the Internet. That is why I think it is so urgent that wherever serious criminal offences are detected, the executives will take counter-measures within the framework of their legal requirements and on behalf of the judicial authority. This is especially necessary in the current cases of child pornography, but also of right-wing extremism. The search by you, Mr Barmüller, in Vienna on 21 January. February 1997, was not something that suddenly happened to the provider concerned, but something where many contacts and talks had previously taken place with the providers; it was clearly pointed out. In close cooperation with the Court of First Instance, the administrative action of the Economic Police was carried out with experts specifically trained for this purpose. There have been precise measures to ensure proof. I would strongly reject the accusation of pulling the plug out of the can because we had no alternative at all because it was only possible by the interruption of the grid-dependent power supply that sensitive data would not suddenly be lost. There is a danger that this will be done by appropriate orders. The security authority could only proceed in such a way as not to destroy necessary evidence. The stored data, which was secured, show that the evidence justifys our actions that we have set. It is true that Mr Krüger said that the suspicions were more than hardened in this official act. Ladies and gentlemen! In my opinion, this recent case also clearly shows the shadows of the new Internet medium. Our common task must be to combat these contradictions and repugnants, which in part are offered there, with extreme force and with all the hardness of the executive and with all our possibilities. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] But we must, I say quite openly, work together with the providers to find new methods to prevent criminal acts on the Internet. I believe that in the future the providers will have to be taken into account and we will have to work together to develop a preventive system in order to get some of the shadows of the Internet under control. I believe, for example, that it is the duty of a provider to immediately understand a central body in the Federal Ministry of the Interior in the suspicion that his services are being misused into illegal acts. I also believe that it is necessary for a provider to identify a private person who publishes content, such as in the form of a newsgroup or a homepage, and to ensure that identification of such a user is possible at any time. I also believe that the provider should be obliged to provide the relevant information at the request of a security authority in the future. However, it must also be clear that such obligations must ultimately be imposed not only on Austrian providers but also on international operators. That is why I will also try to achieve, at least at European level, an accord in the process in this respect. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Mrs Fekter referred to a resolution of the National Council. I should like to tell you that at the beginning of this year the required notification office was set up in the Ministry of the Interior, that three specific cases have so far been received, which have also been persecuted by the authorities. We have also found ourselves and have taken the appropriate measures. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In conclusion: Information and opinion diversity are an essential prerequisite for a democratic country. I see our task in creating the technical and legal conditions for the democratic use of all information. However, we must protect the rights of citizens, especially those of the weakest in our society. We must also take action in the field of new media against extremism, racism and child pornography with all the hardness and determination.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e3237	The next speaker is Mrs Gredler. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e3258	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It is really strange that one leads negotiating objects into ways to possibly really capture a criminal process, and on the other hand it is as if one had never worked with this new medium. Mr Bundesminister, on the question of plug-out: I learned this differently when I changed my ordination to computer system, and I was told: Always keep data first and then pull out the plug, should be something, for example an abundance. That was inculcated at the time. Federal Minister! To the need, if you are afraid that data will be entered so that information disappears, just abduct the keyboard, then that is no longer possible. [[Cheerfulness and applause at the Liberal Forum.]] In any case, it is true that you at least had to have the data secured in advance in order to get a truly comprehensive picture. So it is, I fear, so that some very serious data have been lost. Now something I would like to ask for clarification, Minister of State Schlögl: The EDOK has the address you just mentioned, where you can report and where you have been three times since the beginning of this year. But this is actually just the passive method to become the master of the situation as you would wish. Use active methods, too! I assume that you are probably not burdened with three notifications within four months. Maybe you could send us some information here. I would like to say the following to the statements made by my predecessor from the Freedom Party: They called the Telecommunications Act – and thus you actually allowed the interpretation that all providers, including post, are potentially criminal, because the Telecommunications Act is so comprehensively formulated that you can interpret everything in it. You can't see that. To prevent them from coming into the suspicion of spreading and supporting child pornography, the providers themselves have imposed that they select data and newsgroups and thus protect themselves. You, Mr deputies, have put in the room that providers are in themselves a very strange group of persons or group of companies... [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: You didn't listen to me!]] It would be good if you would recognize that these themselves have started mechanisms to be able to overcome some problems, such as child pornography. But there are still quite other problems. I was in the U.S. and have been working on new technologies in the Gore Group, which are actually about protecting against terrorism at the expense of the data in the private sector. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Krüger]] This means that privacy is completely abandoned there, that this new information system, which is very valuable in countries where one cannot simply articulate freely, is very valuable. And precisely in the country where one can freely articulate, namely in the USA, this is beautifully slowed down, controlled and led to a network in which people are caught who have absolutely nothing to do with a criminal crime, but who are quite honest citizens. These cannot be protected at all because they themselves are not informed that they are caught in a ring warrant. This is a problem that we do not even get to grips with in Europe – and not even the information systems, as they are planned in Europe in the future. We all know that monitoring the system is impossible. We also know, however, that criminal acts have to be pursued. But this should not be done by regulating everything that the freedom of technology enables us to do.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e3308	The next speaker is Mr Rada. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e3329	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have followed this debate with great interest, especially with regard to the legal approaches that might exist to prevent such things that happen on the Internet. Personally, of course, I consider myself to be free media, but I also see the dangers – and I would like to stress that everything must be done to prevent such excesses, such as pornographic representations, extremist political slogans or bomb-building instructions. However, I would also like to add another aspect to this debate. We have tried so far to get hold of all this about laws. You will certainly not be surprised that, as a teacher, I am concerned that many children who have free access to such media in their parents' homes, who have the opportunity to surf the Internet, are also unconsciously in contact with these propaganda matters, or can even become infected or even enthusiastic. A new challenge opens up for the Austrian school. Although there are the subjects of political education and media education, I do not seem to consider this new technology at all or far too little consideration. When it comes to media education, it is mainly in the third and fourth level of secondary education that these new technologies should be dealt with – and above all in the subjects of German and Finer Education – I do not want to devalue these subjects, but that seems to me to be too little to be able to address these dangers. To recognize dangers, that is not to say that we are coming to a new "machine storm age". – The example with the plug-out has already been stressed several times today. It is important to prepare young people to deal with these dangers. Care must be taken first for all operators. That is where I give a hundred percent right to all those previous speakers who have called for it. We must not act as if it were a small thing. We must not be impoverished. We need to prepare young people for it. I could therefore imagine – but we do not have the right contacts on the government bank today – that media education and political education are increasingly geared towards these issues. There is still a lot of information work to be done – and this requires a clear, new order for the school to be formulated.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e3368	The next speaker is Mr Kiss. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e3389	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! This current hour, the topic of which was proposed by the Liberal Forum, in particular the statements made by the Liberal Forum club, gives us the opportunity to bring the position of the ÖVP to the modern methods of search. I am grateful to you for this, Mrs. Schmidt, because it is also something similar to a balance sheet. It is important to me that you, as a clubwoman, once again express your concern about the noise attack and, ultimately, the problems you have with it. I accept that. In the past, however, we have again and again unmistakably deposited the crystal clear position of the ÖVP: The ÖVP was in the past, it is now and we will also be in the future, a party that has called for or called for these arrest methods for our executives, always in cooperation with justice. We have not changed our opinion, we remain in it, and we know that this is the right way forward. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intercom calls at the Liberal Forum.]] I understand, Mrs Klubobfrau Schmidt, that you are concerned about what is now happening to the secret of confession, whether there could not be certain derogations – possibly even for the churches. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: You should have this worry! You're going to confess!]] The fact that you have problems with the churches – both with the Catholic and with the evangelical – is quite obvious. They say, among other things: Get away with religious teaching, with ethics! But we say: Religious teaching is a pillar of our Christian society, our Christian evening country, that must remain. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You, Mrs Schmidt, say, among other things: Get out of school with the crosses hanging on the walls! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Barmüller.]] [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: Go confess! You beg, we're listening! Go to the Khol first!]] We say: The crosses are an identity-making symbol in our country; they have to stay! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Because we are aware of this responsibility, both Mr Schlögl and Mr Michalek, Mr Khol and Mr Kostelka, spokespersons and the security spokespersons at the level of the Coalition in order to discuss new arrest methods. Mrs Schmidt, I can calm you down: A hearing of conversations in confession chairs, yes, will not exist. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: Willn't be there!]] You can rely on that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You, Mr Haselsteiner, are more interested in this matter. This behavior only documents to me that you want to insist with it; that you do not care whether there is the Catholic Church or not, or what the Catholic and the evangelical Church have to proclaim or not to proclaim. You want to achieve only a resolution of these values with what you bring in. On the other hand, let us keep our mind on the matter. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] They interpret "liberal" in a way that we can never identify with. [[Interlocutory calls from Members. May. Barmüller and Dr. Petrovic.]] But it's your right to do that. – Be assured that we always have in mind the Constitution and international law when it comes to the sensitive subject of confession. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: What about the fundamental rights? Are they also part of the Constitution?]] We know that the secret of confession is secured by the Constitution, we know that it is secured by international law, and we know that it is so secured by contractual provisions – the Concordat with the Vatican – that we will also put in place the relevant legal measures. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Just the confession secret? That's little!]] Please note! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] So that means in summary: The government is aware of the fact that we have a way to go with regard to the methods of search which are not easy. We're going to get him. The government is aware that we do what the faithful people do, what Christianity demands, what the commandment imposed on us, exactly in those areas that, for example, concern the secret of confession.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e3537	The next speaker was Mr Graf. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e3558	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr. Minister! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Today's debate gives us the opportunity to highlight the distribution of pornographic materials on the Internet. You hear here in the high house the conjugation that this is a "new medium". I've been here in the House since 1994 – and since 1994 we've been dealing with this topic of "new medium". It is no longer new, and we have talked about this very often and thoroughly in this House and have also put in place legal measures. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: The Federal Government does nothing!]] I would just like to remind you that, with the agreement of the Liberal Forum, § 207a was also introduced in the Criminal Code in 1994, so that the pictorial representation of child pornography is punished. Not only the production or distribution is punished, but also the one who introduces, carries, carries out, or offers, provides, leaves, presents, or otherwise makes accessible. This is a fact. If the authorities have toughened suspicions and requests are made in this respect, a judge has not only the moral but also the legal obligation to initiate prosecution measures in this regard. I see no sin at all, even if one tries to beat political change. In the past, children's pornography has always occupied us again and again. In addition, in this section 207a StGB we provided for stricter penalties in 1996, and this was quite simply necessary. I can also remember – and this is not even half a year ago – that an urgent request by the ÖVP, namely on 19 March. September 1996, here in the Hohe Haus was treated. In the course of this debate there was also a motion for a resolution, which was supported by all the parties. I would like to remind you of this: It was decided that the Federal Minister for the Interior would be asked to set up a central reporting body in the area of the Directorate-General for Public Security, indicating that data would be provided via the Internet for the conduct or promotion of criminal acts. As we heard, this body has been set up. Information and suspicions are also included. You, Madam President Schmidt, say suddenly that you do not want to have anything to do with sedition. Then you should not have carried this resolution back then. It is obvious that all information is also made available to the competent authority. The second point, which has also been supported by all the political groups, but which still has to be dealt with today, is far more important. In this, the Federal Minister for the Interior was asked to prepare, in agreement with the Federal Minister for Science, Transport and Art, a federal legislation allowing the security authorities to submit providers to prohibit access to such data. – That was, as I said, a will-making out of the whole house. However, there is still no such regulation. I hope that this will soon be made accessible to us through the respective ministries – and then we will have to discuss how to significantly limit access opportunities in such matters. Some of my thoughts to Mr Barmüller's statement that there is a lot to be considered in this context. I think there are a few hundred groups around the world that offer and distribute negative material – whether it be child pornography, representations of violence or extremism. That is, as users on the Internet, you know where to look if you want such material. Of course, the provider also has the opportunity not only to make these groups available via his computer, but of course he can do even today, if he is technically familiar, so that things of these groups that he knows according to the name – that must not be forgotten – can not be read on his server. I mean, the situation is clear; you really don't need to talk about it. When it comes to such things, one has to make use of these possibilities. I also believe that there should be a legal obligation for the provider to allow access to pornographic material only to a closed user group, that is to say defined people. Then he can control the age of those who seek such things in a sample way – this possibility must also be given to the provider. The provider also stores who retrieves data. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Such a scheme can be applied to any provider, and it should already do so. That means, a provider...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e3593	Please pay attention to the speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e3608	... should also know his customers. We must give him legal control if the fight against child pornography is to be won. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e3641	The last speaker was Mrs Petrovic. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e3663	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! I do not come out of amazement, which I believe is a very important debate on the new media and the necessary protection and control mechanisms in ideological flowers: Between a confessional chair and a now again very fiercely flickering concern for our children, everything is to be found here. But I miss a really professional debate. I share the view of the Minister for Justice that the new media require a minimum level of regulation. But that's the question. What is this minimum measure, and what content should these regulations have? One talks about the negative growth of the Internet – for example, it was a lot of child pornography here – and of course no one dares to speak in any way such representations on the Internet, but I miss the sharp rejection of the quantitatively substantial brown greetings on the Internet, the Nazi propaganda, which is operated, the recruitment of young people for criminal purposes and goals. I also miss out on the part of those who are now so concerned about what the Internet can do to poor children, social commitment in many areas, and I also miss the willingness to make money for it. What about women's houses and children's houses? What about a modern divorce law that allows women to escape violence in other areas as well? All of a sudden, simply to locate the great possibilities of protection on the Internet seems to be very little. Ladies and gentlemen! But it's a lot more. If, in this House of the Member of the European Parliament, the opportunity is now taken once again to advertise violently for the purpose of raison d'être and similar arrest methods of police state-of-the-art, I must ask him how much he has sought to clarify criminal acts in the past with conventional methods. We are now experiencing a debate on the "Mykonos" judgment in Germany, in which questions relating to Austrian politics and the Austrian security authorities are raised. Are you prepared to clarify these questions – or are new methods of detention introduced before it is clarified whether the police are at all willing to devote themselves seriously to the fight against crime? If suspected murderers could simply leave the country, I wonder how it is about conventional arrest methods and the willingness to exploit them. Another example would be the investigations in the various letter bomb series. My experience alone would now be enough to write a book about warrants and the like. It was anything but professional. I wonder who's using this and if the whole thing doesn't have a method. Ladies and gentlemen! In my opinion, when it comes to a minimum set of rules for the Internet, we should be based on some principles: Firstly, the safeguarding of existing fundamental rights. I even claim that we need new, additional fundamental rights. It is not about the confessional, but about the rights of citizens in our country, which are now massively threatened and which cannot be restricted to confession, because these would be impoverished citizens' rights. [[Assured by Dr Gredler and Mag. Barmüller.]] Secondly, We need to ask for the appropriateness of protection and control mechanisms and for who can at least be delicately responsible. If one attacks the provider and practises the prime method of plug-out, it seems to me that in any company one would make the boss or a general contractor responsible for any action anywhere in the company. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]] I think that in this House too we need more expertise in this matter.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e3723	Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e3738	I therefore strongly urge that, within the framework of a permanent committee of inquiry, we deal rapidly with the issue of effective protection, without limitation of fundamental rights.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e3769	This concludes today's current hour. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e3790	I refer to the written communication distributed at the meeting room with regard to the negotiating items and their allocation. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e3936	I would like to sum up the debate on points 1 to 3 and 6 to 10 of the agenda today. Is there any objection? - That's not the case. Then it's so decided. Requests for deadlines
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e3963	Before entering the agenda, I can inform you that a request for a brief debate on the request of Members may be made. Barmüller and Comrades are present to the Justice Committee to report to Parliament 210/A of Mr Barmüller and Mr Comrades on a federal law amending the Gegentechniksgesetz 1994, a period of time until 14. ==References== There is also a request for a brief debate on the request made by Members Scheibner and Comrades to report to the Foreign Policy Committee on Amendment 152/A (E) by Dr Jörg Haider and Comrades on the opening of negotiations with the Contracting Parties to the North Atlantic Treaty on the accession of Austria to the NATO Treaty for a period of time up to 4. In July 1997, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to turnover taxes. As a urgent question has not been raised at today's sitting, the request for short debates in the order in which I have listed them will be called and negotiated at 3 p.m. in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. The vote will take place immediately after the debate. Announcement of an application for the establishment of an investigative committee
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e3993	Deputies Hans Helmut Moserund Comrades have, according to § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure requested a committee of inquiry to examine the political responsibility of the Federal Government and suspected illegal influence by political agents in connection with the murders on 13 December. ==References== In this context, the request made by five Members within the meaning of the Rules of Procedure is to hold a debate on this request. According to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure shall be debated and put to the vote after completion of the agenda for today's sitting. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e4020	Let us now go into the agenda. Consensus was reached at the Presidential Conference on the following: Accordingly, a total term of eight "Vienna hours" is to be provided for all debates, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ 120 minutes, ÖVP 112 minutes, Freedom 104 minutes, Liberal Forum and Greens each 72 minutes. The Hoge Haus has to be on top of that. Is there any objections to this proposal? - That's not the case. This means that these speaking times are unanimously decided. 1. Point Health Committee Report on the Government Template (110 of Supplements): Federal Act, with the regulations on addictions, psychotropic substances and precursors, as well as the AIDS law 1993, the pharmaceuticals law, the pharmaceuticals import legislation, the Chemicals Act, the midwife law, the prescription law, the criminal code and the criminal procedure 1975 are amended (652 of the supplements) 2. Point Health Committee Report on the Government Template (125 of Supplements): United Nations Convention against the illicit movement of addictions and psychotropic substances and Annexes and Declarations (653 of the Supplements) 3rd. Point Health Committee report on the Government template (147 of the supplements): 1971 Convention on Psychotropic Substances, Appendices and Declaration (654 of Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e4078	We come to points 1 to 3 of the agenda. The debate is being held under one. I do not have a wish for oral reporting. Therefore, it does not take place either. We are going into the debate immediately. The first speaker is Mr Dr. Ofner. Please, honourable Member. As a voluntary speaking time, I was introduced 15 minutes. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: I hope I can keep her!]] Then I'll set the clock to 20 minutes for safety.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e4107	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Poison: What is the situation in Austria in 1997? The market is flooded with heroin – so cheap, as pure and as dangerous as ever before, for all drugs have come to us in much shorter ways since the opening of the eastern borders. The headquarters are no longer located in other parts of the earth, but a few dozen kilometers from Vienna, for example in Prussia. In addition to the "classical" drugs of heroin, cocaine and the like, there are more and more new and more dangerous fashion drugs on the market, which the professionals hardly know by name, let alone have their distribution under control. The number of addicts increases radically. Those affected are getting younger and younger. A few years ago, it would not have been believed that this was possible at all, but it is now not only young people in the drug business but more and more children who are being led to become drug addicts. A few years ago, when you asked students in a small town about which schools there were drugs, they were all quite able to list them. – If you ask her today, they don't understand the question and say: "All over!" Anywhere, if not, you can come to drugs before school or in connection with schooling. If you have children and grandchildren, you really fear what can happen to them when they get into this dangerous age. I have three children myself. I thanked the Lord God when the critical phase was over. Now I have two little grandchildren and I'm worried about what's going to happen if they get a little older. I know that, like all grandfathers, I have the most beautiful and the most successful grandchildren, but all of them probably have similar concerns. For weeks, the media have been dominated by reports on the detection of a drug scene among celebrities. I am a little disappointed that the partly sounding names of the persons concerned do not appear. They're being kept secret completely shamefully. In my view, there is no room for consideration. The case is covered with the coat of the mysterious and thus gets almost a positive paint. Ladies and gentlemen! One should go more far and put things on the table! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] A Vienna daily – it is the "Kurier" – titled on the first page: "Vienna: 1.7 tons of heroin per year!" There's probably no need for any comment. 1.7 tons of heroin a year! What misery this means for the victims and their families, I do not need to explain more closely before this body. In other words: Those responsible do not at least control the problem of drugs! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Against this background, the old drug law should now fall, a law which for about a dozen years has fulfilled its task – in some ways capable, in others, on which I will come to speak, not suitable. It is not a coincidence – I am convinced of that – but a signal in the completely wrong direction if the new proposal is not from the Ministry of Justice, where this matter is traditionally located, but from the Ministry of Health, if it was not transferred and treated in the Committee on Justice, but in the Committee on Health. This is one, actually the most dangerous sector of serious crime. The threat to the most serious drug offences has been doubled by the law now to be abolished, it has been lifted from ten to 20 years. However, it is not only about the need to provide legal support for serious crime, but also about the fact that, in addition to drug crime in the narrowest sense, procurement crime must not be overlooked. A very high percentage of property crime in the country – professionals estimate it at 25 percent! – from shoplifting to robbery, should be regarded as a procurement crime in the field of drugs. Ladies and gentlemen! Such a law, serious crime to a large extent, is dealt with in the Health Committee because it comes from the Ministry of Health! This is a trumpet blast in the completely wrong direction! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But all of this fits the atmosphere of romantic humiliation that we experience in this context in the hands of many responsible, not everyone. And it is appropriate to have this presentation in the Committee, which is still in the incompetent Committee on Health, been whipped through at a single meeting. The opposition parties' requests for the establishment of a subcommittee and the request of the liberals to listen to experts from practice in this subcommittee, police experts, the confiscation departments of the Gendarmerie, the Procuratorate and the Drug Judges have been depleted with the "argument" that all this has been so long and one cannot stop with experts as well. But where is it located? Perhaps in Parliament, perhaps in committee? - No, in the government's lap! It will then be discussed in just two or three hours, as if this were a bagatella law, I consider scandalous, and I will make a request in this context. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Everything is under the heading "Therapy instead of Punishment." – That sounds good, but is not new. The law still in force has also been invented under this premise, during the period of the small coalition. As Minister responsible at the time, I have tried to distinguish between the poor devils who are addicted themselves and deal to meet their needs, and the cold perpetrators who do not hang themselves on the needle and do their business. That was presented under the title "The Two H", namely "H" for hardness in those who lost hops and malts, and "H" for help, for those who can still be helped. But in the twelve years that have passed since then, we have to recognize: The system of the two "H" or, as you now call it, "therapy instead of punishment" just doesn't work. – Unfortunately, I would like to add. But it just doesn't work! In practice, dealers have quickly learned – or already knew before – that it can only benefit them if they claim to be dependent on themselves. All possible tricks are used to make this claim credible. No one is really interested – and it is indeed very difficult – to objectively whether the prisoner is actually addicted or has only a certain close relationship to the drug. However, once this claim is made and is not rebutted, the perpetrator is already on the track towards "therapy instead of punishment" and can expect that at a certain stage of the procedure – I don't need to explain it, since it can be read by everyone – to undergo therapy instead of sitting. Even that is usually very difficult, even if the person concerned really wants it. There are, as we know from practice, in Austria – the Minister of State, Mr Leiner and others will perhaps contradict me – many too few suitable treatment places for people who are ready for withdrawal. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Leiner shakes the head.]] My friend, Mr Leiner, who shakes his head, I will reject with his own words spoken in committee. I repeat: There are not enough treatment places – except for rich people who can go to the sanatorium in Switzerland! There are virtually no places at all for children and young people! The question of funding is unexplained for the healing of drug dependence. People who have been sentenced to justice in connection with drug offences, i.e. procurement crime, and who declare that they want to undergo therapy are comforted for six months. I don't need to put the prognosis for these people, which can be calculated by each individual himself. A family father, who I defended, who was heavily heroin-dependent, whose brother, a gymnasium, had already died of drugs, was ready for withdrawal. He was told that he would be given a place in six months. – The imagination of each individual is sufficient to imagine what can happen to a heroin addict who only gets a withdrawal place after six months. One, two, you ladies and gentlemen, too, Mr Leiner, who said that they can always provide a treatment place to the people who come to them, only confirm my claim. If one has to go to a Member to get a treatment place, that means that there are too few [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: He's also a doctor!]] But you didn't just say that! I'm convinced that you don't have to say this to someone who has an arrhythmia, because he just needs to go to the porter and say: It hurts me. If the porter doesn't do it with the crochet needle, he'll get his bed. But you can't get suitable withdrawal places! I think it has been said by Mr Guggenberger, who is not a doctor, that he has still been able to provide everyone with one. If you already have to go to a Member to get a place for withdrawal, that is a problem. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But no matter what. No one is able to verify whether therapy (instead of punishment) is actually and sustainable and has led to the desired success. Again and again, we must note that traders claim to be self-dependent and prefer to take "therapy instead of punishment" – they also bring the necessary confirmations, paper is relatively patient – but that they are standing on the street again for a short or a long time and sell the fabric, during that time when they should in fact already be in therapy. – It just doesn't work, I'm sorry! It was my idea at the time to put these thoughts in the law. But the facts have taught us that this does not work. There are only two ways to do this – and to do so, everyone who takes things seriously must confess: Either it is the interests of the really or supposedly dependent drug dealers in the foreground and we try to keep them from prison and provide them with a therapy, where and how long, how seriously, and how successful it is – only should it not come to prison, because it cannot be checked at all anyway – but then we assume that in many cases the person concerned continues his corrupt business, thus continuing to turn to his recipients in the circle of students and young people and makes further, ever younger people unhappy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That is, the process in this direction – and I stress time and again that I am sorry for it myself, which I had to recognize – is not humanity, but sublime humanity. And to this sublime humanity we cannot confess to the liberals! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is rather a question of finding a way in other countries which are considered to be very progressive in this field, for example Sweden, that the main interest is that the fate of those who are not yet on the needle or who are always hanging upon it, who are not yet thrown into ruin, and are concerned that the one who is perhaps a poor devil in his historical destiny is the dealer who must be the dealer – most of the self-employed must be dealers in order to be able to satisfy their own needs – is taken out of traffic to ensure that he is no longer able to stand in front of schools, to ensure that his perility is finished, and to ensure that he is also treated behind lattices. That's how he's doing better than he's balling around at Karlsplatz or anywhere. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In other words, we must not forbade ourselves to false humanity by saying: Our interest is for the criminally dependent dealer – perhaps also a poor pig – we want to help him first and foremost, even if it is dangerous for other young people. Instead, we must find to say: It belongs to traffic for safety reasons, so that its danger has ended. The parole should not and must not be: Therapy instead of punishment. She's supposed to say: Therapy plus safety – the safety for the person concerned and the safety for the young people who might otherwise be exposed to his activity. I know what I'm talking about. I am a criminal defender and defender in this area, and I take my business seriously there too, but I realize how things really work. The issue is that drug offences of some weight – trade in hard drugs in a larger style – are to be carried out with investigative detention. It is not the case that, when confessions or cremations are made, the persons concerned are back on their feet after a few days and continue to follow their bad business at a high percentage, I claim. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is also true that in the case of drug offences with some weight – trade in hard drugs to a greater extent, I repeat it – it is mandatory to proceed with compulsory prison sentences, and not with conditional or partial penalties, not to express the fact that the person who has become guilty is a very special evil which must be hit particularly hard, but because he is particularly dangerous to other people and because he has to take this risk into account accordingly. In the interests of children and in the interests of young people, a relaxation in the system of drug legislation is not in place. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] However, it is expected to take place on the basis of the new template. If you look at the template in detail, you will be able to see that many things are to be changed, for example, when it comes to whether or not easing should apply only to someone who acts on the basis of his own addiction, as is the previous demand, or whether he should in the future also experience different benefits if he is only partly because of his own quest and otherwise for profit or whatever he is doing. It should also be no longer subject to procurement crime at a high percentage in the form of criminality that the person concerned really needs to sit in. That is, if a person is dependent and commits property crime up to a certain ceiling, he should also, under certain conditions, save his seat. It's all you have to calculate. There are only easings, there is only sublime humanity, there is only misunderstanding liberality in this template, and we cannot understand for that. There will be speakers coming out – I can already hear that, because one has already seen the forecho in the media – who will explain that some things have also become more stringent. – That’s not true at all, as you have to look at the template and try to take it by word. They should tell us what really has become more stringent: It will be said that nothing has become more stringent at all. Finally, one should stop presenting the fate of people who have become dependent on themselves by celebrities, as it is now the case, as tragic-heroic and the way in which they have shown themselves as a biterl "sick". Actually, this has nothing to do with these things. This only makes it possible to put on the coat of the acceptable anyway, and we have to get away from it. Whoever consumes drugs in the way of abuse, he is despised. Not him himself, but the drug abuse belongs despised! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This must not be considered a romantic matter. – You are a social worker, I know you have to shake your head, but I tell you that from the wait of the lawyer who is 39 years in business and who knows himself. [[Abg. Tegischer: I do this out of conviction!]] The use of drugs is to be disregarded, and it must not be said that it is a loose thing that cannot be caught. I now come in all hurry to an application in accordance with § 53 para. 6 C 2 of the Rules of Procedure. I would therefore like to ask for the fact that the presentation in the Committee has been debated, without any further reference to the matter, for example, by setting up a subcommittee or by drawing up experts, that item 1 should be referred back to the committee responsible, which in my view is more uncompetent, but nevertheless the Committee on Health.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e4259	Dr. Ofner! Could I please have this request? He is not present to the Bureau. I'm going to the speaker list for a while. Next speaker is Deputy Magistrate. Walter Guggenberger. Voluntary speaking time: 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e4287	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! In the debate on the Drugs Act, two strongly opposed positions have become apparent: The Greens and the Liberals advocate a release of hashish and marijuana, and if it goes after the liberals, the only thing to do is to drug addicts with the beating of criminal law. On the other hand, we of the coalition parties have drawn up a law on addiction, which has the following content: The principle of "therapy instead of punishment" should be extended with an eye-to-face and a lot of sense for the feasible. Pregnancies should not be ruined in their existence, but they should be given back life opportunities. But it is to be done against commercial dealers with all the hardness and strictness of the law. We want to develop health policies specifically and efficiently, and the methadone programme should be strengthened by law. Not least, the safety executive should also have significantly improved opportunities in its fight against drug crime. Ladies and gentlemen! In this way, we continue a specific Austrian path: a path that has proved successful, a path which is to find a reasonable balance between health and social assistance on the one hand and criminal policy measures on the other. On this path, ladies and gentlemen, we have done quite well in recent years, and that is why we want to continue and expand it. If you think this line is wrong, you should have a look at it abroad, for example, in the United States, where, as Mr. Ofner suggests, you are based exclusively on repression, hardness and strictness of the law and where you have not achieved anything at all, or on Holland, where you are actually a resignive laisser-fair – there is nothing you can do! – let go, or to Switzerland, where you once let Hü! And once hot! once a more stringent and once a more liberal line rides. [[Abg. May. Head: Wrong! Completely wrong!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Don't listen again!]] . We are simply and simply better driven than other countries, and that, my dear colleague, Ofner, is our best argument. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: That's not true!]] Look, Mr. Dr. Ofner: While addiction crime has tripled to quadruple in the Federal Republic of Germany, Switzerland and Italy over the last 15 years, it has practically not increased at all in Austria between 1981 and 1991. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Only a few flew up! There are others!]] Then there was an intensification of the problem, but in the last two years a clear silver strip has again been shown on the horizon. For example, in 1995 we had only to record a 1% increase. And if you look at the Vienna drug report, Mr. Dr. Ofner, then you will They find that last year in Vienna, ten people suffered less drug deaths than in the previous year. This is a good record, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Go to the street once! Go to an indoor!]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Go to Karlsplatz!]] With this proposal for a law, we will continue this line, which has proved itself well, namely a fight against criminal business-makers, but not a struggle against the addicts, and therapy on a voluntary basis. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Talk to Rudas and Seiler about yesterday's snow!]] Mr Ofner, only such therapy can make sense at all, but not a forced therapy, as you imagine it. This is not only necessary in the sense of a modern human society, it is also the only right approach to address this problem quite effectively. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Go to Karlsplatz and don't go straight from Parliament to Schwechat!]] Mr. Ofner! Locking away has never solved a problem, even the drug problem. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Tell the parents of the affected children!]] For example, we have so far shot cannons at the first daughters in the cannabis area, and that was just too much of the good. We have forced the first perpetrators to visit regularly, and this has sometimes occurred to the employer or school. They were stigmatized, and that's what led them right where we didn't want them. The liberals, however, have complained of the planned removal of this senseless, yes harmful procedure. So in the case of socially integrated first-aids, we want to find out with an instruction in the future, and this principle of building a golden bridge is like a red thread through this whole novel, which will be carried out by colleague Fuhrmann. However, what the Greens and the Liberals see as an intensification, an additional criminalization of this area, that is mysterious to me – with leave. And aproposing Greens and Liberals to release their demand to Hash and marijuana: I don't want to demonize this. There are quite voices from the Tyrolean Addiction Council, from the Tyrolean Caritas, who also mean that. Nevertheless, I personally don't think that's right. There is no doubt that hashish is also a substance that is harmful. He must not be impoverished, even if he is not addicted. He damages the central nervous system, he damages the lungs, he also damages the immune system. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: Alcohol and Cigarettes too!]] Our aim must be to promote, ladies and gentlemen, a society that is as free as possible of addiction and dependence. However, release means increased, unlimited availability, and that, ladies and gentlemen, at least we do not want to have. However, a criticism is very serious, namely the criticism of Mr Ofner that the care and therapy offer is not the best in all the federal states. Here you have to differentiate very strongly. It is quite exemplary in Vienna and Vorarlberg. Other federal states are required to scratch the sleeves, and in this respect I already have a chicken to pick up with my colleague, Ofner. If he complains that the care offer is not sufficient, then one must be kept in mind: We had a lively debate in Tyrol weeks ago, in which it was about installing a treatment station in a place on Lake Achen. The social democratic mayor has tried this massively and has committed himself to it. And do you know who went from house to house to make a mood against this measure? [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: The Ofner!]] That was Maurach's liberal councillor! To complain here at the speaker's desk that there is not enough support if your lakais are making their moods in the places against these care offers, this duality, my dear colleague Ofner, is totally unacceptable! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I'll come to the end. We certainly did not find the stone of the wise by this law. A drug-free society is an illusion that will never exist. But we believe that we can achieve a limit on this problem as far as possible, and that is why we are happy to agree.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e4477	Mr Dr. Ofner, at the end of his speech, submitted a referral request for the submission in 652 of the Supplements. This referral request shall be made in accordance with § 53 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure shall be put to the vote after the list of speakers has been exhausted. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). The speaking time is set at 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e4501	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to start by saying: We Liberals too are responsible for this problem, which exists not only in Austria but all over the world. We also do not want addiction diseases, nor do we want dependent people, so that this is quite clear, but we just have another access, as my previous speakers have explained from their point of view. We clearly look into the facts: 12 000 to 15 000 heroin addicts in Austria with an annual increase of 15 percent. Mr Guggenberger, I do not know where you have your beautiful data. It is a fact that the numbers are increasing. If you are saying that we have been "goodly driven" so far, then this statement, Mr Guggenberger, is self-evident. [[Abg. May. Guggenberger: Better driving!]] You've been talking about "good driving," I've written this down. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] We also know about the strong increase in the spread of so-called designer drugs. In this context, we do not know what new achievements we still have in this area. If we also know that young people in particular are at great risk, we must act as political leaders. We know exactly that the decades-long attempt to eliminate the supply of drugs and the use of drugs from our culture have failed, and unfortunately we will have to live with drug users in the future. In this regard, Mr Guggenberger, we are of the opinion. It is only the question where, in our opinion, we want to settle these sick people in our society, whether at the extreme edge of healing and sickness or in the place of crime and prostitution, or whether we want to get drug addiction to the centre of our health and social policy attention. We Liberals choose this path. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] A drug policy that seeks to combat addiction exclusively by means of criminal law and which requires a complete abstinence of drugs for the granting of state aid is condemned to failure. Ladies and gentlemen! The terrible balance between 120 and 250 – the figures vary somewhat – drug deaths in our country should wake us up. These people usually die, not from the drug itself, but from the unclean instruments they use, or from the accompanying diseases. Drug problems are also based on the illegality of drug use. Criminalisation hinders drug assistance and therapy and also assigns to the police and justice a task that they cannot solve. Mr Ofner, as a former Minister of Justice, you know exactly that, and you also represented a different line at the time. [[Accompaniment at the Liberal Forum]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Yes, Klara, but she was wrong! I have represented a line similar to that which is being propagated today, but I have to realize that it is wrong!]] That's your opinion. I still represent my line, Mr. Ofner. We Liberals welcome the approach "therapy instead of punishment" – that is not true! – which was also provided for in the Government template, but was watered down by the amendment, ladies and gentlemen, by the government parties. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Since when? You've been talking a lot differently.]] The fact that the original liberal approaches have been taken here is not only my assessment, Mr Guggenberger, or that of the opposition, but it has been shared by the Minister of Justice in the Health Committee. This amendment already sets out a failure of the approach in favour of a treatment extension. As usual, § 12 para. 2 in which it is expressly pointed out that the cost of therapy should be kept as low as possible? The Committee's position can only be seen as a kneeling of health policy before the Minister of Finance and the financial representatives of the countries, it is said that the further extension of the treatment offer will only be possible in accordance with the existing budget. [[Call to the liberals: Zero!]] - That's right. Media reports believe that the authorities are already considering how to cover the treatment costs, one must say that it is irresponsible to talk about an "result" in the form of "therapy instead of punishment". Moreover, in many discussions with therapists, doctors and those concerned, I have never heard of the overtherapy in many areas. On the contrary. All those who have already tried to get a treatment place for a drug disease have experienced that it is almost impossible to get such a place in the near future. Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to point out today, as already in the Committee, from our point of view, the consumption of these substances, in particular the substance obtained from the cannabis plant. I like to do this, and I am not afraid of those who will disprove all of this. They too have not yet found a recipe that will bring us forward in drug policy. We just want to try differently. We are convinced that we have here a rethinking and a re-evaluation: an elimination from criminal law, because the danger of these substances is not based on their substances, but rather on criminalisation and thus illegal dissemination. I would also like to dispel the persistent claim made by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy that the situation in Amsterdam is bad. On a closer look, this rumor turns into the opposite. To tolerate pragmatic handling in the Netherlands, the sale and possession of cannabis products up to a small amount has resulted in a decline in the consumption of so-called hard drugs. Statistics show that in Holland 1.6% of the population is dependent on heroin and other opiates, compared with 2.7% in the other EU countries. Ladies and gentlemen! As you know, the Liberal Forum has been working since its existence for the controlled release of soft drugs. In a society that not only approves alcohol and nicotine sauce, but also finds skill, it is simply hypocrisy to criminalise a provenly dangerous substance and to put the cannabis plant under the addiction, as in § 2 para. 4 can be read. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I say that this is absurd, counter-productive and because of UN agreements it is not necessary at all. Therefore, in the fight against the state of controlled delivery of cannabis substances, we do not see any reluctance to engage in procurement crime. On the contrary. We continue to fear the danger of the first consumer slipping into the area of harder drugs, as the market and brutality – I admit – do not separate the unscrupulous dealers from soft and hard drugs. On the other hand, the often argued argument that cannabis should be considered as a drug for entry is only correct insofar as the proximity to other dangerous drugs is brought about by the currently practised push-off of the sale of hashish and marijuana in the illegal market. A separation of markets would therefore also lead to a reduction in the number of drug addicts, which again shows the example of Holland. A similar view has also joined police presidents of many German states who are pleading for the false path of drug policy that has been taken in the past decades. With regard to the need for a differentiated, humane approach to drugs, addiction and addiction, I put forward the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, on this matter, I would like to say that the Liberal Group will continue to support the need for protection, especially of young people, against any kind of dependence and addiction. Mr Ofner, I am quite right if you say that therapy and safety are a priority for young people. I am a mother and I am glad that my children are on this path, but I will also have grandchildren and therefore deal with this problem. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: I'm a grandfather too!]] As far as the consumption of so-called soft drugs is concerned, from a liberal point of view, the central assessment of the freedom of every human being also includes the freedom of consumption of health-requiring foods. It is therefore not the task of criminal prosecution, but of public information and awareness-raising, as well as of adequate provisions on the protection of young people that is not the responsibility of the use of intoxicating and beneficial substances. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Let me briefly comment on another amendment. Important physicians in Germany and abroad have been fighting for some time for the use of cannabis in the pain therapy of AIDS and cancer patients, and there is already enough evidence of the success of this path. Equally undisputed is the use of morphium instead of health much more harmful medicines in pain therapy. This idea was taken into account in the Government template, but the amendments were again weakened. Paragraphs 7 and 8 in the original version of the government template were to be assessed positively in such a way as to finally prevent pain therapy from being mixed with addiction-toxicity. We share this knowledge, and by means of a more precise wording of § 8 we want to underline that the medical use of addicts should not be covered by the provisions of this law. This means that physicians are to be taken into account that they may be in conflict with the provisions of this law in the use of search products for the benefit of the patient. Similarly, scientific knowledge should be taken into account that human addiction and dependence are primarily due to mental causes, which are not given in this form in the case of severely ill cancer patients. Our amendment would allow the exclusively medically indicated use of opiates as a therapeutic agent in addictions. In the event of abuse or mistreatment by the doctor concerned, the criminal provisions of the General Criminal Code and the Medical Law shall be sufficient. I therefore bring the ladies and gentlemen. [[Quoted print version removed]] Finally, let me say why I voted in the debate in committee with the other opposition parties for a subcommittee. The present proposal is a matter to be attributed to criminal law in a wide range of areas. Members and experts from the field of justice have not been heard in this context. In addition, the debate in the Committee and in today's debate showed how uneven the positions of many Members are and how little scientific knowledge has been discussed, particularly in the field of the use of certain drugs for medical use. Prejudices alone are bad advice for such a complex matter. Finally, once again the opportunity was denied to engage in an argument about the psychological, sociohistoric and cultural use of drugs in a society. The use of drugs is to be disregarded, Mr Vanner. But I ask you: Are you also drinking alcohol and smoking? We all consume these drugs every day. They have long become socially capable, and we also know the devastating consequences of these drugs. We Liberals cannot give our consent to a law that is more repressive than forward-looking. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] We will give our support to the Government documents 125 of the Supplements and 147 of the Supplements to United Nations Conventions against the illicit movement of addictions and psychotropic substances. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e4675	The amendment tabled by Mrs Motter is sufficiently supported and is included in the negotiations. The same applies to the motion for a resolution which she has read, and I would like to ask the Bureau to submit motions for resolutions in such a timely manner that I can take part in reading this motion. Mr Leiner has now spoken. – Deputies! You're talking. Voluntary speaking time limit: 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e4702	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! - You have to be happy about it, don't you? – Dr. Ofner's remarks were already remarkable. [[Abg. Böhacker: A beautiful blue tie!]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Excellent!]] Great. Many things can also be considered from my point of view, but I believe that they are already enshrined in the law. My question is also addressed to you as a lawyer: How do you defend a addict? [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Good!]] Don't you use the arguments in the law? You say it was wrong to create such a law. I mean, maybe the paths you've gone are the wrong ones. What was wrong? – Maybe you haven't had the opportunities you have today. Perhaps the health measures that should be taken today have not been adopted at the time. Of course, it is right to worry if you know that over 500 billion dollars are spent on drugs, if you know that there are 40 million addicts in the Western world and 1 million dependent in the EU countries. But we have heard these two extreme positions before, these two poles, namely, total drug freedom and, on the other hand, total repression. I don't think that's the right way. One must find a way of real and just treatment for the patient as well as punishment. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] It's not that we don't want to punish the dealer. You said you can't see that the law has become sharper. In this respect, there are more stringent measures inside, but the one who is really addicted has the chance of getting rid of them. He is treated, as are all the sick. If we let the story go, you have to say: You used to banish the disfellowshipping from the city. You've locked or burned the psychologically ill. Were the ways of treatment? Do you want to continue with the addicts today? That's not the way! [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: It must be prevented from bringing further drugs!]] The path of health is... [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: And where is the pernhead with his people today? – On the alm in a farm, because he has recognized...!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Pernhaupt, with whom I am very familiar and whose drug therapy I also pursued, where I was even some time, has just recorded and realized this theory. I am firmly convinced that we are on our way in the right direction: no liberalisation, but a further decriminalization of the addicts, therapy before punishment, consistently carried out – consistently, I would like to stress once again that there is no addiction to the disease, but a legally safe, medically controlled substitution therapy and treatment – these are the principles contained in this law. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Since addiction occurs at a level of human beings, which involves many processes – there are many reasons for that – social policy alone cannot control the problem of drugs. Any state policy on drugs must be aware of the limits of its possibilities. We must also be aware that there is no general solution to drug problems. But the addiction problem is individually very easy to solve. First of all, there is the need for a drug prevention that is trying to prevent the introduction into the drug scene. The possibilities for this are available, we know. It depends on us, it depends on each one of us in society whether we do something about it or not. Secondly, there is a need for drug therapy which is already in need of treatment and is ultimately considered to be a treatmentable disease. We must recognize this as a therapeutic disease and address it accordingly. Thirdly, drug rehabilitation needs to be facilitated by the possibility of getting out of the drug scene through rehabilitation routes. We need to go this way, in this direction we want to go with the current addiction novels – with an extension of therapy possibilities, with an extension of rehabilitation possibilities, with an intensification of prevention. I am quite provocative of the money spent in Austria on illegal drugs - experts estimate about 4 billion schilling annually - compared to drug consumption in Austria, which is 13 to 15 billion schilling. The use and abuse of drugs is and remains a social problem and only affects young people at first sight. Talking about drugs is primarily about illegal drugs. Every fifth Austrian aged between 15 and 40 has tried at least once an intoxication. The drug addicts in Austria have been constantly estimated at 10,000 to 15 000 people for years. However, when comparing the number of dependent people – 100,000 drug addicts, more than 300,000 alcohol addicts – the number of drug addicts is actually minimal. Nevertheless, we see here a major problem that needs to be addressed. The fact that there can be no black and white painting in the area of drugs also shows quite clearly in the area of pain therapy. I see the punishment of trafficking in psychotropic substances – but with further facilitation of medical treatment with sleep and sedatives – as the essential point of this innovation. I would like to point out the better way to treat pain now. We know that about 5 percent of the population suffers from pain. There are about 80 000 cancers that need to be treated accordingly. In this respect, better conditions have been created, and we now have the opportunity to really help these people. However, the willingness of doctors to prescribe these funds must be enhanced and demanded more. Moreover, it is simply inhuman and medically unacceptable that these people must suffer. I am glad that this pain therapy is now possible. One even discussed whether to give in case of rheumatic complaints or at Ischias Opiate, which was recently mentioned at a pain congress in Salzburg. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: But this will not take place at Karlsplatz!]] - No, but in the ordinations. We need to take precautions in this respect – and I think we are called: we as parents – that we do not give the children already stress-related some sedatives or sleepers. I believe that we should prevent these drugs from already being given in childhood, which is often the case now. Through this law, the drugs created in chemical laboratories on the drawing board can no longer have this composition and thus already fall outside the scope of the addicts, but are prohibited. The current novel of the addiction law is intended to close this loophole for drug manufacturers once and for all. I have always expressed my opinion – and for this I have been more often attacked – that drug addicts should be treated as ills, but that those who do their business with this disease should be caught by the full hardness of justice. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is not a new thing, we know, and it has been going on so far. This law provides an essential prerequisite for improving the fight against addiction crime nationally and internationally, as well as for a further step in combating drug addiction in Austria. However, we have called for this law not only to be passed, but also to be accompanied by: First: to strengthen the information and prevention measures and the budgetary security of such measures. Secondly, Promote basic research in drug therapy and addiction behaviour. We don't know why one gets addicted and the other doesn't. Thirdly, as a legislative measure, we call for the establishment of a Council of Addiction, as is already the case in Vorarlberg. Fourthly, Austria's active participation in the EU's anti-drug programmes. Fifth, you open a bottle Inclusion of school and non-school youth into educational and preventive work. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e4832	Next speaker is Mrs Haidlmayr. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e4854	Mrs. Minister! Minister! Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The Government Template 110 of the Supplements of 26. In principle, in some respects, the Austrian drug policy was liberalised in May 1996. Unfortunately, this piece of liberalisation was brought back to us by the SPÖ and the ÖVP only a few hours before the start of the Committee meeting. The extension of the principle of "therapy instead of punishment" contained in the Government's proposal of May 1996 was reassembled by this amendment, which included 22 pages by the way and by the Committee's establishment of SPÖ and ÖVP. Only that the cost of the health-related measure is now seen only more in relation to success – while maintaining the quality of therapy – and that it should be kept as low as possible shows that there will not be the alternative "therapy instead of punishment"; the more favourable form should be chosen in the case of equivalent offers. Thus, the intention of the government template was limited and basically re-evaluated. Texting, as I have just read, does not allow quality claims to be a priority, but it is only the cost factor that is the decisive instrument for therapy. That there is no quality to ensure, I believe, is understood by itself. The principle of "therapy instead of punishment" can never be fulfilled in this form, not even nearly fulfilled, because if, as you know, it currently looks like 350 dependent people have a treatment site, please tell me how you want to meet this claim. If a dependent person who wants to make a therapy has to wait for two to twelve months for a treatment site, then this leads – you know just as well as I do – to the fact that during this period the therapeutic willingness is substantially limited or a therapy may even have become obsolete, as many people who want to make a therapy die in such a long waiting period. The people who are willing to take therapy have nothing of it if "Therapy instead of punishment" is suggested, because you, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP, know very well that there are almost no treatment places in the western states. In these federal states, judges cannot offer dependent people any alternative to punishment because there is no treatment offer. This will automatically lead to the criminalisation of these people. You are detained because there are no treatment sites – and you are responsible for that. You made promises in your law that you can't keep. I think that's what I'm doing. Once again, you are quite clear how unbelievable you have become. You know very well that there is not even a single record in Austria that shows how many outpatient and how many stationary treatment sites there are in Austria. Such a list does not exist. If today a drug addict who wants to make a therapy ends up at some facility and happens to be no place left, then he cannot even be given a piece of paper to look around where he might be able to find space for him. There are no records of available treatment sites. It is interesting what has been done in the Committee. Mr. Guggenberger said that one could fulfill the right to "therapy instead of punishment", there are enough places, and Dr. Leiner confirmed this by saying: Within three days I bring every dependent person in a treatment site! A few days later, in a press release, Mr Leiner and the ÖVP, Mr Guggenberger made it clear that they can finally make sure that treatment sites are created in the Western Länder. [[Abg. May. Guggenberger: I always said that! I said that first!]] So so much tolerance. You can be credible about your credibility They don't really think of anyone in Austria anymore. I know that you still believe that the psychiatry is the point of departure that makes the treatment places more or less sure for dependent people. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, of the ÖVP and also of the liberals! Haven't you heard that drug sick people are sick to this day? They are not mentally ill, but they are drug dependent and therefore have nothing to look for in the psychiatry. [[Abg. May. Guggenberger: It's about psychotherapy!]] A statistics show quite precisely that only 30 percent of all drug addicts also have mental problems. [[Call the ÖVP:50!]] However, 100 percent of drug addicts are in the psychiatry. That this cannot be a motivation to make a withdrawal, I think, of itself. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Guggenberger: 50 percent, that's every other one!]] Mr Guggenberger! If you have anything to say about this and your speaking time is already exhausted, write it down to someone from your colleagues, but don't talk to me constantly. I'm not doing this with you either. If you are prepared by the SPÖ and the ÖVP to accept that you are unable to comply with this law, which you want to decide today. You can't meet it because you didn't create the conditions and conditions. "Therapy instead of punishment", just as you really want to make it known to the population, is not in the foreground for you, because then you would have to secure the framework conditions, and you didn't do that. They are basically concerned with the fact that people who are drug addicts continue to be criminalised and that people who suffer from a bad situation have no or little opportunity to use an alternative to being imprisoned. I know you can now rely on the so-called deposit in the first time. That's right, there are. But please, Mr Guggenberger, be honest: If, in order to remain free of punishment, I can only smoke a joint every five years, and if, if I used to drink after that, I'm criminal – if that's not ridiculous, I ask you: what else? When I smoke a joint after three years and get caught, I'm criminal. If I have crossed the five-year limit, I can do it completely legally. Such a pass of law as progress is really ridiculous. All of you, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ and the ÖVP, know that the publishers of the regarded magazine "The Lancet" in the November issue of 1995, that is, long ago, found that the release of so-called soft drugs cannot fail at all because of medical concerns. The release or non-mission, the further criminalisation of cannabis is exclusively a political one and has nothing to do with health damage at all. You all, ladies and gentlemen, should actually know that the most harmful drug that we have in Austria, but which is legally, yes, the noble drug, which is alcohol. Second, there is drug dependence, which causes people to suffer. The fact that alcohol and drug dependence are not or are not being punished is quite logical, because I think all the courts would be overwhelmed with it. I ask you: What is more, to release soft drugs when the related health damage, as can be read in The Lancet, is much lower than in alcohol and tobacco abuse? Ladies and gentlemen! It is no longer necessary to maintain that you promote and strongly support the dealer market. Because only the release of the so-called soft drugs at central sites – for example in pharmacies or in so-called coffee shops, as they already exist in Amsterdam – would ensure that a) the procurement crime goes back and b) the conversion to the so-called hard drug will be much lower. There is very clear evidence for this. A study was conducted in Amsterdam between 1982 and 1992. This study states that the change from the so-called soft to the hard drugs over this period of ten years has fallen from the average age of 22 to 34 years, and that now only more than 1.7 percent of drug addicts are under 22 years of age. If you do not see this as a success, I ask you what you want to measure your success and what you see as success. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Mother.]] Another concern of the Greens is to enable the medical use of cannabis. The medical use of the hemp plant is a result of centuries of experience, and until 1974 it was also permitted in Austria for cannabis to be used for medical purposes. All those who have dealt with health policy know that cannabis not only helps people with cancer and AIDS, but that there are many other areas of application where good success has been achieved. This use in the medical field is also again or still criminalised. Ladies and gentlemen! They will not believe that in hospitals people will sit around and smoke a joint. Of course, this will not happen. The release of cannabis in medical fields would only result in people consuming cannabis products in the form of capsules. No one needs to be afraid that suddenly the waiting rooms with joints would be filled with people smoking. There won't be any. Ladies and gentlemen! For me, it is clear why you are still resisting the use of cannabis in the field of medicine, while on the other hand, you are speaking for the legal administration of sleeping tablets and tranquilizers that make strongly dependent – the dependence on these two drugs is much higher than on cannabis, but that is okay for you – because you are supporting the pharmaceutical industry. If you were to release cannabis products, you would take away a piece of the pharmaceutical industry, and you would want that You do not want to strengthen them, and with this law you can continue to do so. I would therefore like to put forward a motion for a resolution which reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] In our view, it would also be desirable if the state-controlled delivery of heroin to heroin addicts would be made possible. I think it would be very helpful to the heroin addict, because if they could get the heroin to the doctor for a fee, they would know what content it has. Today they have to get the heroin on the black market at high prices. Ladies and gentlemen! You can stop me now: We have a methadone programme in Austria, so we do something for the heroin addicts anyway! But all of you, especially the people who come from health policy, would have to know that methadone is missing. But a heroin addict also needs the kick, and he still has to buy it on the black market. The treatment with methadone is no help for heroin addicts because they have to obtain the remaining opportunities to survive on the black market. The state levy of heroin would therefore be a very important point. Only the controlled delivery of heroin in the medical field and a clear regulation of the supply of so-called soft drugs by the state would allow one to starve the dealer market. This would also result in a decline in procurement crime. If drug addicts could make use of clear medical offers without being criminalised, they would also be prevented from covering the goss due to their illness. Ladies and gentlemen! They know very well that it does nothing if sick people are criminalized. Sick people are sick and are entitled to proper treatment, they must not continue to be criminalised. They have the responsibility to decide whether the dealers will continue to have the unlimited opportunity to sell their substances on the black market. This continues to make people dependent and forced to go to crime to control their drug disease. With this law, which is to be adopted here today, the large market of dealers remains fully maintained. It remains true that people who are sick are being criminalised and are not recognized as ill, that people who are drug addicts are automatically put into the psychatry, where they do not belong at all. Ladies and gentlemen! On the basis of the principle of the Committee, the fact that all the treatments that are to be offered in the future or which are already available to take place exclusively in economic terms shows quite precisely that, by this law, you will have your claim, originally in the Government's template of 26. "Liberisation" and "therapy instead of punishment" were not even able to comply with the approach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e4971	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Haidlmayr is, in accordance with business rules, supported and is included in the negotiations. Mrs. Hostasch has been reported to speak. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e4996	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Let me first make some fundamental comments on the law under discussion. I believe that in Austria we can rightly point to the fact that we are pursuing a successful drug policy. This proves all comparisons with other countries and also international studies. The new Drugs Act, in which the latest findings and developments in the drugs sector have found its way, provides a corresponding legal basis for continuing our successful drug policy. Ladies and gentlemen! This drug law replaces the old - you can say now - addiction law. It refers to new developments in so far as addictions, but also psychotropic substances and the related precursors are included in the legal provisions. I would like to draw from this law those key points which, in my view, are particularly important. We now have the opportunity to improve health-related measures for people with addiction problems. We are also able to ensure improved youth protection against fashion and designer drugs. I'm not just about Ecstasy. This law also enables us to see new developments, developments in which we cannot estimate how they will affect at all. Ladies and gentlemen! I consider it particularly important that we have a better legal basis for pain therapy; Mr Leiner has already referred to this from his experience as a doctor. We know many cases of most cancer patients where we suffer. From now on, the doctor has the possibility to use better medicines for pain therapy as part of his freedom of treatment. He can certainly alleviate so many sufferings. Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to refer to the better legal anchoring of substitution therapy, where, in cases where we do not mean that we can achieve real healing due to the current situation, we can achieve at least improve ment by stabilizing the state of health. However, I would also like to refer to the central message of this law, which we say is about therapy instead of punishment. The aim is to be able to take more stringent measures against organised and international crime, with the principle of "pre-punity therapy" in the case of drug diseases always being observed. Mr. Dr. Ofner – he is not here at the moment; but that is also the opinion of his group – has meant that "therapy instead of punishment" does not work. We know from many studies that there is no 100% success in drug therapy. This is a fact that we must take note of. However, all current studies show that the delinquency rate and the likelihood of relapse are falling significantly after drug therapy. Ladies and gentlemen, especially you from the liberals! I ask you: What is the alternative to the programme we want to offer, to the opportunity we want to offer? – The alternative is to lock in. Incarceration, however, produces even more addiction. Imprisonment produces even more crime, even more victims, even more perpetrators, and not least human suffering. I cannot imagine that this can be a reasonable political objective! From our point of view, it is definitely not. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The question of treatment sites has been raised several times. I would like to point out that we in Austria can offer a comprehensive stationary treatment, but at the same time we also say that this offer does not guarantee that we can really provide every drug disease with the appropriate treatment site. There are about 600 treatment places in about 25 facilities in Austria, and these treatment sites, highly appreciated Mrs. Haidlmayr – she is not present at the moment – are mainly not in psychiatric clinics. The federal states each have quotas in the existing facilities where they can designate their patients. In addition to these existing in hospitals There is still the possibility of physical detoxification and withdrawal treatment. For this there are several additional facilities in the federal states. But the hospitals also have their own withdrawal stations. In addition, there are low-ranking facilities such as drug ambulances and ambulances, advisory services, after-care facilities and also rehabilitation centres that round off the offer. It is therefore tried to take account of the different needs of the individual drug diseases. Ladies and gentlemen! I also believe that drug disease is a disease within the meaning of the concept of disease and should therefore be available to them equally. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Amon.]] I would also like to make a comment on the quality claim which Mrs Haidlmayr has raised here. I think that this law is very well suited to the quality claim. I should like to point out that, for the first time, the health measures are laid down by law. In addition, clinical psychology and psychotherapy are included. What I consider very important is the requirement that all bodies in which health-related measures may be implemented should be approved by the body for which I have been entrusted the responsibility. These facilities must define the supply of care, make documentation, report a written report each year and have a doctor familiar with addiction abuse. We have had the opportunity in the Committee to discuss this very thoroughly. I believe that these legal requirements have met a high quality requirement. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would also like to make a comment on the Cannabis issue. This law – I would like it to be used in this statement – does not free or increase the use of cannabis. I think that the accusations go empty from one side and from the other. I mean, with this draft law, it was possible to strike a balance between the claims aimed at total release and the claims that would end in an extreme legal persecution of drug diseases. Ladies and gentlemen! I would be pleased if, by this today's decision, we could successfully continue the development of drug policy and thus be able to ratify international agreements and thus demonstrate to foreign countries how we imagine dealing with this problem of human beings.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e5080	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Fuhrmann. Please, honourable Member, you have the floor. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e5101	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! There are obviously issues that are marked in a discussion by the fact that they are covering those involved in this discussion and, accordingly, the discussion is emotional. This is reflected in a certain degree in the arguments. I think that the issue of "sucht-gift" or "sucht-drug law" is such a thing. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to congratulate all those who have already spoken on this subject and who will still speak on it, that they seriously feel that they are good and that, like us who want to decide this law today, they are carried with the idea that the young people of this country – but not just the young, because all those who are young – will be older, so all the people of this country will not be able to compare them now from the animal kingdom, because for this to be unfair, to protect them from being brought into the addiction environment, to protect the individual from being introduced into the drug environment, to become addicted, and those who intend to refrain from it, but if they do so and do not allow themselves to be caught as much as possible and then to punish them as possible. Ladies and gentlemen! Access to this subject is clearly a different one for the individual political groups in this House – with all the good will I have already approved. I am grateful to my group's access – which is also the access of our coalition partner – that this is primarily a matter of human health, the health of society in this country, which is also expressed by it – something I also support – that in this debate the health speakers and then the Minister of Health and then those responsible for the field of justice speak. There has obviously been an agreement on the government bank in accordance with this attitude. Ladies and gentlemen! We must not be dream dancers, we do not need to imagine that we can get out in this difficult area without criminal law, without criminal law, without security executives, without prosecutors and judges. It would be nice if we could experience such a society! But we shouldn't think about it, because it won't be like that. It is therefore necessary that, apart from the other correct and important points of this new drug law, we deal with how best to deal with the defence of criminals who want to lead people into drug dependence. In this context, I should like to raise the question raised by Mr Ofner in his contribution to the debate: What did you even get worse? It is already when we have decided on the amendment to the Criminal Code on the possibility of levying, an intensive de facto intensification. And by also taking the psychotropic substances and the precursors into the drug law, we are sanctioning, if it is done when people are seduced to take them, is, ladies and gentlemen, the statement that an intensification has been made is quite correct – even though the dimensions of punishment have not been increased in detail. We have the highest level of punishment at the age of 20, so we really don't have to go up. Whether we say "20 years" or "life-long" for the extreme, large-scale drug dealer – I think that would be label-difference. It is very important for me, in my contribution to debate, which unfortunately has to be limited to 8 minutes, to make a comment on what Mr Ofner has said here as President-in-Office of the FPÖ, which, as I believe, is not right, as he has said. We must deal with this from the point of view of justice. I go to his interlocutory call, which may not be in the Minutes; he, as colleague Mother said, called her children herself: I have grandchildren! - I also have grandchildren. We don't need to compete there. I would also like to see not only the young people related to me, but all the young people in this country protected from the dealers. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Second point, my honours. Ladies and gentlemen: It is quite simply not right – and this is not correct even by so often repeating – that dealers are caught by the provisions of the law and are outside after a few days and offer the fabric to young people. - It's not. I would like to ask all my colleagues – Mr Pumberger, you will be able to discuss this, but I would like to ask you to understand that I am no longer saying that I have very little speaking time at my disposal and that the lamp is already flashing – to look at § 35 very carefully and honestly and to consider what we are talking about – this is also a sentence in the direction of my colleague Haidlmayr – namely: It is not supposed to be a "little" – as it has been said by Ofner – who, in order to be able to finance his addiction, which already has it in the claws, is forced to deal, who steals something somewhere, because he cannot obtain it otherwise, when he feels the so-called cold Turkey in his entrails, with the full hardness of the law existentially destroy. We want to give this a chance not to have a chance to exist for life. That is the meaning and purpose of this law. And whether this is done in detail with a provisional remission of the notice or by saying that if it has been condemned for up to two years, the penalty imposed is suspended if the person who has been punished or has been notified proves that he is willing to take part in getting rid of this addiction. – Dear ladies and gentlemen! This is good, right, and that's what you have to do. And to that end, as a parliamentarian, who decides this law, one can stand with full heart. Another sentence in the direction of the colleague Haidlmayr: I know that the discussion on the release of cannabis plant products in a country like Austria in which the socially legalized drug of alcohol is - with all the terrible effects that I know from my professional life as a lawyer - very easily moves in the direction that we are accused of: One who smokes a joint pursues you with all the hardness of the law, and someone who sells a sixteen-year-old beer in a beer tent, although he sees that he is already heavily drunk, does not do anything! Mrs Haidlmayr! In this regard I am on your side, but I invite you to look at § 35, you will find that you have been wrong. It's not like that. The prosecutor may file the ad, but only the first time, in the first joint, he doesn't even need to ask the county captain as a health authority if there is a danger. If it's the second joint within five years, I don't think it's bad if the prosecutor at the district administration office asks as a health authority if the person concerned is in a bigger ring – he can still stop it. The prosecutor has to judge the ad personam, and that's right and important – and I think you can stand for it. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! All that has otherwise been said in this direction is – and this is my firm conviction – very serious to take, in the social debate process, it is not in any way to be shubbled, just because we decide on this law today. Nevertheless, I believe that this drug law, with all the possibilities now available, is a good and reasonable law, from the security authority, from the prosecutor's side, from the judge's side to the individual case, which takes a very hopeful step towards keeping the problem of drugs in that country in a reasonable way and hopefully getting better hold of it than it has been before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e5183	The next speaker is Mr Pumberger. – Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. Since the system does not work, I will draw your attention to the end of the speaking time through lutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e5204	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Fuhrmann, you have claimed here that the poor, pitiful drug addicts who have to resort to means to obtain drugs that have to deal with or commit any other crime cannot be punished, should not be detained, these people must be brought to an understanding. [[Abg. Dr. Fuhrmann: I'm sorry you didn't listen attentively to me!]] – Do you know, Mr Fuhrmann, that you have put a plea here for people like a criminal like Tony Wegas? – This is highly unacceptable, Mr Fuhrmann. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fuhrmann: It's not true! – Raub does not fall under § 35!]] This reflects drug policy in Austria. If Mrs. Hostasch proudly claims: Austria has a successful drug policy!, I can give it right. – The figures speak of this: rising numbers of drug deaths, increasing procurement crime, increasing addiction crime at all. But the Austrian antidrug policy has failed, Mrs Federal Minister, and this law also contributes to it. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] One thing I don't leave on us either: Mr Guggenberger claimed that Justice Minister Ofner wanted to arrest all the addictions. – That’s not our goal, and that’s not what Ofner said either. On the contrary, I would say that we do not want to have the freedom of punishment for Austrians who have become guilty of drug use and also for foreigners who are with us – and there are many who are going to be punished – we do not want to give them a free letter that they can be given a pseudo-treatment, allowing them to go about freely and continue to practice their bad business and threaten our youth. [[Abg. Dr. Fuhrmann: Don't do it!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The current drug law has so far not been able and will be in place until the 31st century. December of this year, until which it is still valid, is unable to reduce the number of addicts. On the contrary. This figure continues to increase with great intensity. This law is also unable to deal with explosive drug crime. It is also not in a position to exercise any influence to curb organized crime in relation to drugs. And it is also not possible to handle the procurement crime. This law only contributes to this, since it is not possible to remedy the continuing destruction of young lives that our children and grandchildren are more easily drawn into the soot of drug use. The de facto de facto release of the hashish policy of devastation further strengthens the trend in this direction. This law also does not help to reduce the number of drug deaths. – Mr Guggenberger von der SPÖ has quoted the Vienna drug report and is famous for having had less than 10 drug deaths in Vienna last year. [[Abg. May. Guggenberger: Ten drug kills less!]] I must say: We had 247 drug deaths last year, isn't that enough for you? If it was ten times less than 1995, do you consider this to be a success? [[Abg. May. Guggenberger: That's 247 too much!]] – 247 drug deaths are exactly as many as we Members of the National Council and the Federal Council together. And every single person has to think about whether through drug policy he does not also bear a slight share of this rapid increase in the number of drug deaths and this dilemma behind them! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This is not just a matter of those who die directly from drugs. The statistics do not include those who die from AIDS because they have been infected in connection with drug use. Nor does it contain those who exercise suicide, not those who die of hepatitis C. Nor are those who as relatives throw away the nerves: the mothers, the fathers, the siblings who are drawn in when a family member is drugged. All these pitiable people are not mentioned in the statistics. Therefore: If we get to grips, we make a proper, constructive drug policy, we do not take legalisation and liberalisation in terms of soft drugs, as you intend to do with this bill. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Tegian: Will you all be locked in?]] For this draft law is a continuation of the way in which Austrian drug policy has been going for years and decades. This is a wrong path, ladies and gentlemen, it is a way towards liberalisation, not an intensification – it is not at all an intensification, all the details go towards liberalisation. And this path of liberalisation we do not go along with the liberals as the only party. I say the following to you, ladies and gentlemen: In Vienna there are 5,000 known heroin addicts who consume heroin worth 2 billion schillings a year – only in the city of Vienna; these are 500 000 s, half a million schillings per addict – and they have to get the money. [[Abg. Tegischer: We would like the solution! - Lock in?]] A new study from the Federal Republic of Germany says that each heroin addict commits an average of ten crimes per day. And we can't get hold of these heroin addicts at all after the new legal situation. [[Abg. Tegian: They're sick!]] All the states that have gone a way towards liberalisation have failed with this path. Sweden has already tried it in 1986, two years later it has again introduced a restrictive policy. It is so in almost all states: Drug policy is being pursued in a kind of commuting movement: Once you go towards liberalisation, then you see that this is not going to increase the number of drug cases, and then you make a restrictive policy again, but then comes again pressure from the left, from the Schickeria, from the Schickimicki society, where it is easy to consume drugs, you go back to the pressure and go towards legalization and liberalisation. Ladies and gentlemen! The principle of "therapy instead of punishment" is basically not bad. "Therapy instead of Punishment" should apply to those who are drug-sick, but not to those who become punishable in connection with their drug addiction. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This law provides that in the future a three - year absolute punishment can be converted into a conditional punishment if only it is claimed that one is accustomed to a drug. There may be criminals saying: Yeah, I'm used to a drug! – You can’t prove it – and this may result in a dealer who is not addicted at all, also using this freedom of punishment, and who will be on his feet the next day and will have a psychotherapist consultation, for which the law does not require proof of success. That's really a bad thing. A Mr. Tony Wegas, Anton Sarkozi, a Schickimicki man who was promoted by Austrian politics, was presented with a 300 million public as a star, who has failed and has become a criminal, according to the new law, if he attacks over 80-year-old ladies, she would be deprived of punishment under the new law. [[Abg. Technically, that's wrong! This is not covered by § 35!]] [[Further calls at SPÖ and ÖVP.]] – He would go free of punishment, that's not wrong, that's what the law says. This law means a free letter for dealers. A wholesaler from the drug cartel is about 500 to 1,000 retailers, because almost every consumer is also a dealer because he has to buy the drugs. And these small-scale dealers, who commit crimes, should not be detained even if they distribute drugs to minors in front of schools when they are a member of a drug gang, which is particularly serious crimes. For them too, the maximum penalty for three years is absolutely essential, which is now transformed into a conditional punishment if they are to undergo psychotherapist advice – even if they do not have to prove a therapeutic success. We have seen that Tony Wegas has not been under control for months, but has remained on the loose. This is then the practice according to the law, which is now legalized. We cannot have this because we take responsibility for our youth and responsibility for the Austrian population in drug policy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I would also like to say the following about the substitution treatment: The substitution treatment is now made possible, not only by means of a regulation with methadone, but now becomes a law and is possible by any means of addiction. It has now de facto enforced Mr Leiner, because ÖVP always says that this law bears its handwriting – Mr Rasinger said that at a press conference. – Yes, it bears the manuscript of Mr Leiner, who, in a press release, requested the therapy with heroin on a health certificate. With § 8 in the Addictions Act, this has now become possible. Mr Leiner, I would like to congratulate you, but you also praise the fact that it is the ÖVP's handwriting if you can issue heroin on a health certificate if you can carry out a substitution treatment with heroin – and this is contained in it, because you can nominate with your head, that is quite possible and no longer punishable – that the ÖVP has enforced, I do not understand because there are great difficulties within the EDP. [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] For example, Mr Rasinger said in a "Kurier" interview: Hairthrowing, this law! In the future, everyone caught will explain that he is addicted, and two years later he will have a treatment success. Mr Kukacka – he did not come today – has said that this draft law does not receive his approval, he will refuse his consent – for all the reasons I have given him. Ladies and gentlemen! There would still be a lot to say, but my speaking time is over, therefore only the following: The liberals call for a drug policy that starts with the advice of pupils and apprentices by professional teachers, by professional doctors and drug leaders, an extension of the drug search, both human and technical, an improvement in cooperation with Europol, adequate treatment places for addictions and no preference for drug addicts against all other criminals. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e5413	The next speaker is Mr Rasinger. - You have the floor. Time limit: 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e5434	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. Minister! My dear! Ladies and gentlemen! Actually, I wanted to start with the theme "The parents' Angst around their children". But, ladies and gentlemen, if you were to condemn the 1985 Act, which your colleague, Ofner, led as Minister of Justice at the time, so far as the ground and soil are concerned, I think a conversation between you two would be recommended. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] If you still spread the fairy tale to this day, that there is heroin on a health certificate, then I have to tell you, I hope you're not so sloppy as a doctor, because the law does not contain a single line of it. [[Congratulations and cheerfulness with ÖVP and SPÖ]] It's only in the law. Medicines may be supplied for substitution purposes. – Heroin is not a medicine, Heroin is not available in Austria... – Even if you're still "braining" so much – it's not a search medium-performing medicine with heroin on the market in Austria and will not be on the market either. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Addiction drugs, not medicines!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But I don't think we should stop such embarrassments. I think the issue is too serious, because it is really real tragedy. Whether it's 240 or 250 drug deaths – it's definitely too many. Whether we are good or not with about 12,000 heroin addicts internationally – from my point of view, it is definitely too many. My aim, the objective of my group, the EIA, is to implement a drug-free life in Austria as far as possible. This is, of course, irregular, but we do not want to resign, we want to come closer to this objective at least one step. How does the path that was drawn here today look like? – Mr Ofner has drawn the one way, he was called "law and order". I say the following to you: In America – Mr Haider, you are often in America – entire districts are de facto abandoned because the mix of poverty, easy availability of weapons and drugs there has so raised the rate of crime. And the punishments – there is even the death penalty – have done nothing, the number of addicts is much higher. California is spending more money on prisons today than on educational institutions. The German police presidents – that has already been said today – have said: Only by means of criminal law and the means available to the police cannot we solve the problem. – So we don’t pretend to be able to solve the problem with even more police and with more prisons. It's just a hell of a deal! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Mrs. Haidlmayr! I very much appreciate you, but if you justify the hashish release with medical aspects, then I must say to you: I think you're confusing two things. In the medical field – in this respect there are even research attempts – Haschian is a blessing at the end stage of HIV, at the end stage of cancer, because it stimulates appetite because it significantly reduces the terrible vomiting. But taking this as a reason that everyone is now smoking is not very good. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Remember the following – in this context Holland is always brought as an example, you have to look at it carefully: In Holland, it has been found that heroin is not far where hashish is. And if you release one, you also have the same distribution route with the other product, and you have to expect it to be a great pressure. Even if you shake your head, Professor Van der Bellen, I have to tell you: Unfortunately, it is, and it is not possible to pass by facts. But Holland has become more restrictive thanks to God. Now for heroin release, whether on a health certificate, in a pharmacy or at a doctor: Mrs. Haidlmayr! I've become a doctor and I'm not a delivery of heroin! I'm worried other than every day... [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Peter: That means you refuse the treatment of sick people!]] I'm enough of those 12,000 hard drug addicts. If you release heroin de facto, I have to ask you – in view of the willingness to be addicted to legal breeding in Austria; there are 300 000 alcohol addicts; there are major problems with them; 50 percent of the 17-year-olds smoke – do you think that this figure of 12 000 remains? – I guarantee you that there will be 50 000 to 100 000 who are dependent on hard drugs. I'd bet with you, but I'd rather not take the bet. The Austrian middle path, which Mr. Ofner left, although he once decided, has proved himself, I believe, to be not romantic and not obscene. It is based on four pillars: first pillar prevention, second pillar repression through justice and police measures, third pillar therapy, fourth column therapy by substitution. We will still have to talk about repression, but if you do not trust the Austrian judges that they can decide to use their powers, which are now modestly extended, then I wonder: What confidence do you even have? If you do not accept that trading with tablets, with Ecstasy, is punishing trafficking in tranquilizers within the meaning of the UN conventions with up to five years in prison, then I must ask you what else is aggravation. I do not understand the world anymore, if you do not accept that the Committee on the Rules of Procedure – in which the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection also It can react very quickly and release maximum quantities, because this is a measure towards stricter! I really don't want false humanity because I think dealers are causing enough tragedy in this country. Second point: Long-term therapy. Of course, more needs to be done in the field of long-term therapy, but we started practically zero in 1980, we moved on through Ofner in 1985, and we are on a relatively good path today. I believe that the number of long-term withdrawals should surely be doubled over the next five years. Next point: Substitution. In this law, the legal grey zone is finally precisely defined and formulated by law, it is actually a protection for doctors. I would like to thank ex-minister Lösnak, who at the time dared to issue this grant of substitution. Germany did not follow until years later. Germany has prevented this for years and has even greater problems today. In this context, Germany has spoken about the "golden shot at state costs" and so on. Today, Germany is turning on the Austrian road in this area, and I thank you for that. We are far ahead of Germany in the area of substitution. We know that through substitution with methadone – you defy this, Mrs. Haidlmayr, but if you spend heroin as the only means, then you can be sure that no man wants to be employed on methadone – crime is reduced by 90 percent, HIV infection rates are dramatically reduced, working ability is increased and long-term withdrawals are made possible at all. But it seems important to me to be the point of prevention. This is at all the most important point, he has hardly been addressed today, he is not part of the law either, he cannot be part of the law. We must, by all means, prevent a big scene from developing, that concerns police action – not Zurich! Secondly, Enlightenment. Please join our proposal to promote a prevention fund! Thirdly, The entry thresholds in the youth, even if no one wants to hear that, are alcohol and smoking, in these areas we really have to do more. There is no need for 37 percent of 16 - year - olds to smoke regularly. Fourth point: Sports. Sports and drugs are not tolerated. Even if this issue was raised by Mrs Vranitzky in Austria – it is right. Fifth, you open a bottle Strengthening personality. The children must learn that there is also a no. It is also about emotional security, it is about the preservation of prosperity. This is family policy; good family policy is probably good drug policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I conclude by saying: It is unwise to achieve the goal of drug freedom, but at least we should have the vision of getting closer to it. With this law, the Austrian middle path, which has been successful, is in any case continued. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e5535	Mr Pumberger asked for an actual correction. Deputies! I would ask you to start with the facts you want to correct. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e5565	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Rasinger, health spokesperson of the ÖVP, claimed that I had not properly interpreted the law and claimed that it would be possible to use heroin for withdrawal and substitution treatment. I am actually correct in saying that, not as Rasinger said, "medicines" are in the law, but that is what it says: Drug-containing medicinal products – which also includes heroin-containing medicinal products within the meaning of the Drugs Act – may be used for withdrawal and substitution treatment. The prescription law amends this in so far as it does not apply the prescription law to medicinal products containing a drug within the meaning of the Drugs Act in Article 7. That is why it has been removed from this legal situation. It can therefore de facto – I hope that it will not be the case – be used in future as withdrawal and substitution treatment in the sense of a press release and the wish of the health speaker of the ÖVP, Dr. Leiner.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e5598	Mrs Gredler has now been mentioned. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e5619	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Ofner has said that the situation is dramatic as long as a Member is needed to get a bed in a withdrawal facility. I would like to give him the right to do this. The situation is dramatic because at this stage there are hardly any other ways to help except with methadone. At this stage, for example, I would follow what has now been very well done in Zurich and also in Germany – I would like to right my colleagues Rasinger, who is now going out: In Germany, a new therapeutic approach is being implemented, i.e. that of enabling heroin to be delivered in a controlled framework. This is like in Zurich where a station was set up in which the addicts agree in cooperation with the doctors what amount they need. Some addicts also agree to reduce the amount in order to allow withdrawals, so to speak, at first. The good thing is that these addicts can be reintegrated into the work process again, that there are fewer infections, for example, because they no longer infect themselves via syringes. They have fewer infections because the opportunities to be infected are no longer given because their health status is much better because they can pursue a regulated life, a regulated bread acquisition. That, I believe, is the approach which is very serious and which we should follow in Austria. It is not enough to provide only more beds, but... – Of course, against remuneration. [[Intercession with the liberals.]] [[Members of the Freemans are talking out loud.]] I do not know, Mr Haider, whether you are upset because of me or because of your party, but listen to me, then you may find ways to better shape drugs policy in Austria! [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You're not that important!]] I really believe that people could be helped by providing them with these possibilities, that is, clean syringes, clean products. In the sense of the development, which is now also taking place in America, we have very much a difference in cannabis. It is perverse to say that, under the Austrian legal system, the first joint is not concerned, but after the second joint, within five years, there will be concerns, and one has to find out. This is a perverse situation. Either one has concerns, then the first joint has to be enough, or one has no concern, and then it is totally irrelevant whether to catch someone the first or the second or even the third time. I really believe that cannabis can make an environmental separation, an environmental separation, which also makes it possible to pursue a addiction. Although we would consider the Liberal Forum a search-free world to be an ideal image, we see that some people want to take drugs. This includes alcohol and nicotine – look She once, who smokes all outside – and among them also now falls cannabis. As long as this is part of our world, it must also be taken into account. One should separate the environment by legalizing on the one hand something which is inconceivable, which is not a threat to entry, and that would only mean a threat of entry if the environment was not separated and therefore criminals controlled the distribution route. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum, on the Greens and on representatives of the SPÖ.]] I do not think that it is a sensible way of dealing with the problem globally, as any previous speaker has said, at a time when we are sniffing at paints and gasoline, total bans can be said at any time. It is now economically interesting to bring drugs to Austria and Europe via dark canals to make a lot of money. As long as the economic component is in the foreground, one will certainly not be able to get hold of this situation in the long run. That's why: environmental separation; Cannabis should be removed. That is why I would ask you to take a closer look at the request made by Mrs Motter, because he is going in this direction. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] As a special pikantery, I think it is only now that we are able to agree to the United Nations Convention against the illicit movement of addictions and psychotropic substances. It took a long time, my lords! Now the United Nations, in particular this monitoring organisation in Vienna, is talking to Austria, why we are not finally taking steps in this direction. If you were to separate economic profit from addiction, drug addiction, you could solve the problem much faster and more effectively.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e5681	The next speaker is Mrs Onodi. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e5702	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If we now consider the health-politically relevant priorities of this law, we also find improved legal anchoring of pain therapy as well as withdrawal and substitution treatment. While addictions are currently prescribed under the Addictions Act only if treatment with other non-drugs promises no success, the new regulation should also work with opiates and prevent insufficient prescription practices at a level adapted to the respective level of pain. In this way, ladies and gentlemen, effective pain treatment should also be possible as an important part of cancer treatment. As a further health-related measure, the anchoring of clinical psychology, psychotherapy and psychosocial advice and care should be seen. Health-related measures and facilities must receive a quality confirmation in the future. They will have to be approved in the future, and this will also provide quality assurance. Thus, it must be ensured that treatment in these institutions is in principle abstinence-oriented and that the social reintegration of the disease is pursued. The establishment must have a doctor sufficiently familiar with addiction abuse and, depending on the care offered, a qualified and sufficiently trusted staff for the implementation of clinical-psychological, psychotherapeutic or psychosocial measures. These staff requirements are designed to ensure that all therapeutic measures comply with the state of the art. These health measures and the objectives of this new Drugs Act, in particular, lay down three principles: Expanding the principle of "therapy instead of punishment" for drug diseases, stricter measures against organised and international crimes and also improving health-related measures for people with addiction problems. Finally, at second reading, I would like to make a motion for an amendment by the honourable Member, Mr Mag. To bring Guggenberger, Dr. Leiner and comrades to the Drug Law. In the key points, this amendment concerns in part citation amendments. It should also, however, make it clear, above all, that the competent customs guard body is entering for the competent security authority and not, as provided for in the Government template, the nearest security authority. Furthermore, the amendment provides for the entry into force of Article 75 of the Schengen Convention only after the 1st Convention. ==References== I would ask you, Mr President, to have the proposal distributed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e5756	The request, which Mrs Onodi has just mentioned in the key points, is sufficiently supported and is included in the negotiations. As far as the extent is concerned, I follow your request and cause the reproduction and distribution. The application will also be accompanied by the Stenographical Protocol. The amendment reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e5871	Next, Mr. Federal Minister, Dr. Michalek, spoke. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e5892	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! For years, it has been an undisputed principle in Austria that the problem of drugs cannot be solved by purely repressive measures, i.e. by the use of criminal law alone. It was always out of the question that addiction and dependence are primarily medical problems, so that it needs medical and therapeutic approaches beyond criminal law. Justice cannot shut down this insight, but must and must develop creative solutions in its area in order to find appropriate answers to an extremely complex and complex problem. So we kept it with the current addiction law, and so it should remain with the new addiction law. Basic consideration of this - rightly said - by no means new concept of "therapy instead of punishment" is that where medical and therapeutic measures are necessary, useful, promising and adequate, criminal law should first step down and allow treatment and care to help the dependent person and to motivate him almost under the demonocle of criminal law to use the aid offer. Only where more serious crimes, organised crime, drug trafficking are at work is to be done with full hardness. The best means for security policy activities is still to prevent possible future violations of the law, even if the law has already been broken. This is particularly true in the area of drugs for the dependent, whose addiction does not originate in the malice of criminal energy, but is a physical and mental illness with social causes. However much this basic idea can also be taken into account by the new Drugs Act, it can be set out on the two criminal-law priorities of the law, in the provision of provisional notices and in the temporary postponement of the execution of the sentence. The provisional probationary adrelation in respect of not large quantities of addictive drugs is extended to less serious cases of criminal acts in connection with the procurement of a addict in accordance with the wishes of practice for the relaxation of the previously too narrow corset. This makes it possible, on an optional basis, not only for the addict who is indicated simply because of the acquisition or possession of addicts, but also for the person who, for example, has obtained the funds for his addiction by means of a lesser property offence or a recipe counterfeiting, not to be condemned with all the resulting consequences, but also to be given treatment and care under certain precise conditions. To clarify: The mere claim of one's own addiction is by no means sufficient, and this is what Mr Dr. Ofner's example of the road dealer is neither yet nor in the future a case of provisional remission. In more serious cases in which the prosecutor raises charges and the court imposes an essential sentence of freedom, the court should not only, as before, delay the execution of a penalty of up to two years before, in order to give the convicted one the opportunity to break out of the vicious circle of addiction and crime, but also in the future – especially at the request of the practice for more flexibility – not necessarily, but also optionally, the possibility in individual cases of including persons who have been sentenced to a imprisonment of up to three years, and addicts who have been sentenced for less severe cases of procurement crime, to give the chance of treatment as a bridge in a drug-free and crime-free life. In this context too, a clarification is made: The current case, set by Mr President of the Health Committee as an example, is neither after the current nor after the future legal situation a case of a provisional penalty. High house! In a few areas, each country is as dependent on international cooperation and solidarity as on the fight against drug dependence and drug trafficking. Early on, the international community met and concluded international treaties to combat the problem of drugs. Vienna as the United Nations headquarters is of historical importance here. Not only have the major UN organisations involved in combating drugs been based in Vienna, but the most important international legal instruments in recent years have also been developed in Vienna: The 1971 and 1988 Conventions provide for widespread international measures in relation to addictions, substances that change consciousness and chemicals, which as so-called precursors are often used for the illicit manufacture of addictions. Today's law on the adoption of the UN Conventions fully implements the measures provided for in the United Nations Conventions, thus creating the conditions for ratification, so that in future Austria as the last member country of the EU will also belong to these conventions as a party. In particular, this will create the conditions for the effective and sustainable fight against new forms of drug abuse – I can only mention the keywords of Ecstasy or Rohypnol. High house! The addict needs our help, the drug dealers and criminal criminals, but without a doubt he deserves persecution and punishment. The Drugs Act takes account of this basic idea through criminal threats to drug trafficking, which are among the highest in our legal order. However, the real range of measures against drug trafficking and organised crime can only be assessed in view of the recently reinforced provisions of the Criminal Code. Think of the new criminal offences of the criminal organisation or money laundering or of the provisions on depleting the enrichment and decay. "Therapy instead of Punishment" is needed in order to have success and acceptance, without a doubt consistent prosecution of drug trafficking. Demand reduction and supply reduction are two sides of the same medal. High house! With the reforms of the last years in criminal and criminal law, on the one hand, and with the entry into force of the new drugs law, on the other hand, we have created the conditions for our long-standing and straightforward and by no means in a zigzag course, as in some other countries, to follow the double approach efficiently and with an eye. I would also like to say a word about the criminality of cannabis consumption: No provision of this law shall be understood in the sense of a release of drugs, neither soft nor hard. Cannabis is also listed in the annexes of the only drug convention and is thus fully covered by the provisions of the Drugs Act and thus also in the criminal provisions. It was the bureaucraticly overcrowded treatment of cannabis first-users who in practice found contradiction. Most of the ad deposit according to the previous § 17 drug law is first delinquents in the cannabis sector, which are forms of curiosity consumption. The need for treatment has generally been denied by the district authorities in these cases. In future, therefore, the prosecutor should have the possibility – in turn optional – of putting an end to the procedure without obtaining the opinion of the District Administration Authority for a period of time, i.e. only on trial, if he has no doubt about the lack of need for treatment of a cannabis consumer within the last five years. If the prosecutor has doubts, he shall, as before, involve the health authorities in his decision. Ladies and gentlemen! After decades of experience in the practice, I have no doubt that the prosecutors and the courts will also deal with the new possibilities for provisional accompaniment and the temporary suspension as before, responsibly and appropriately as before. Finally, a word on criticism of the existing therapeutic structure. Any shortcomings must not lead me – let me say that quite clearly – to pour out the child with the bath and to question the concept of "therapy instead of punishment" which is properly recognized or even to throw it as false overboard. The place of deficits in this area can only mean strengthening efforts in this area. This is why our previously unsuccessful double strategy must not be abandoned and reduced to a one-dimensional drug policy of repression. We must continue to help the addict deal with the reasons for his addiction, the loss of addiction, not least to prevent further criminal acts and thus in the interest of public security. Justice is prepared to take its part in this area of responsibility as well. This is also evidenced by the fact that the judicial system has already made a significant contribution to the cost of health policy measures and will continue to increase this contribution in the future. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e5988	The next speaker is Mr Van der Bellen. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e6010	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! – Minister of State! I quite agree with you on a number of points, especially your statement of initiation, which meant: Police action alone, criminal measures alone will not solve the problem of drugs. Similarly, Mr Rasinger of the ÖVP has expressed himself. I think that's quite right. The question is: Will the consequences of this knowledge be sufficiently drawn? How long has it been since we have to deal with the so-called drug problem in Austria? 20 years or more? How long has the problem of drugs been such a problem in the United States? 40 years? 50 years? How long has it been since the US prophecy was first decided and then lifted? 70 years? [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: 90 years!]] – It’s not 90 years, that was my memory in the 1920s, but it’s a very, very long time. You're right, Dr. Hazelsteiner. Have we learned enough specifically from the experience of prophecy? What happened then? Prohibition has not eliminated the level of alcohol disease. The abolition of prohibition has also not increased the level of alcohol disease. But one thing must have happened: Prohibition has only allowed Mafia to be a serious economic factor and a social factor. The same has happened to drugs such as heroin and so on for 50 years now – only worldwide and on an unevenly larger scale, with an unevenly greater chance of organized crime than at the time with these beer bottles and whisky in the United States. Perhaps you should look at yourself – not what the left Schickeria says about it or any misleading folk singers or the Greens or the Liberals – what the police presidents say about the problem. The police presidents of ten major German cities, namely ten of those twelve where the drug problem is most severe, diagnose first of all: We have also fattened organised crime by the rule of law. - That's what the Bochum police president says. Secondly, the police presidents say as a consequence of what they want, namely a state-controlled delivery of heroin to addicts – because they do not deal with the problem. We must take note of this. I don't want to address the details of this story, and everyone knows I'm not a specialist for it, but the essential thing, I think, has been recognized by the police presidents: We must try to withdraw the organized crime from the market as far as possible, to take the opportunities of profit that exist for it. That is, as has been said, the position of police presidents. This is not a liberalisation, it is a controlled one, if you wish, depowering the Mafia on which it is concerned, and indeed something that the then health speaker of the ÖVP, Dr. Leiner, literally said in 1993. I have the press release, in case you don't believe it. That was exactly four years ago, in April 1993. Furthermore, apart from the economic and criminal reasons behind this measure, it seems to be medical, psychological and social, because the overwhelming majority of drug deaths do not simply die of the drug itself, but die of the wrong assessment of what they are taking. That is, they cannot estimate the "quality" – under quotation marks – of this good because they depend on the incalculable risks of the black market. This is also known to us from the prohibition time: The mixture of whisky with methyl alcohol and with what I know for toxic substances at the time has cost many people life or made them a crumble for life. These are old things, well-known. Of course, this state control of the heroin market with additional therapy and, I add, additional police measures against the residual crime that will exist would cost a little bit. But on the other hand, there are huge savings opportunities in this sector. For example, for Germany, it was estimated that only the material damage caused by the procurement crime – not to mention the personal damage – costs twice as much as the entire police use against drug dealers and addicts. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] Now a few words to my previous speakers from SPÖ, namely Mr Guggenberger, Mrs Federal Minister Hostasch and Mr Dr. Fuhrmann. All the speakers from the SPÖ have commented on the problem of cannabis – with the most strange arguments, I must say. Mr Guggenberger said that although cannabis does not make addicts, it is not particularly harmful either, but it is not really health-promoting either, he believes, and that is why it must be banned. So please, if that's the logic, what about it? [[The speaker holds up a cigarette pack.]] This makes it addictive – I did not dispute in my infamous tobacco speech – which is certainly harmful to health, which has many disadvantages that cannabis does not have. I do not hope that Mr Guggenberger will prepare a legislative proposal that prohibits cigarettes; let alone alcohol. It's not harmful? That doesn't make him dependent? We haven't known that for decades? What about caffeine, what about Coca-Cola? Prohibit everything? Yes, do you really want to raise the mafia?- Oh, my God! That would be the consequence. He can't seriously mean that. Mr Guggenberger can't seriously say that, but why does he seriously mean it in the case of cannabis? The basic problem with cannabis has not been understood by my SPÖ colleagues. The basic problem is not whether it is a bit harmful to health or even health in certain medical applications, but rather something quite different. That you forbid this substance – I say – and the first consumers who are now being penalized – which is very beautiful, but that doesn't solve the problem, force them to turn to the Mafios dealers, that's the problem. The first consumer is, as it were, stopped by the state to go to the drug dealer, if not forced, to buy a harmless drug. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: There's no harmless drug!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] All right, there's no harmless drugs. Again: Cigarettes are in some way not harmless. I'm the last person to argue. [[Abg. Scheibner: You just said cannabis was a harmless drug!]] But then, when I got into this – we don't even talk about it at all – not that harmless drug at all, 30, 40 years ago, I wasn't forced to go to a criminal drug dealer, since I went to the tobacco traffic that is known as the state-led truck and bought me a box of cigarettes there – this special variety is manufactured by Reemtsma in Hamburg – and that was it. That's where I had a quality guarantee. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: Since then do you smoke "Ernte"?]] No, that wasn't "reward" at the time, since then I've probably changed my brand 20 times, but always I had a certain quality guarantee. When I buy "Gauloises", I know what I buy when I buy "Ernte", I know what I buy. [[Abg. Scheibner: You should stick to a pickerl so you can see what you are advertising for!]] This is not the case with heroin. That's a problem. The second problem is that, through this ban policy, the state is bringing young people specifically into first contact with the criminal dealer. That's the problem! Cannabis is not the entry-level drug – show me a single study that is seriously claiming it – but the problem is that the state brings young people directly into contact with the criminal dealer. This is the problem, and § 35 of the present law does not in any way justify it. [[Abg. Wormitzer: This is a one-sided representation! Very one-sided!]] In view of the fact that it is never a pity to be informed in addition, we, Mr Wurmitzer, have tabled an appropriate motion for a resolution, and if you do so, you can then read the study, namely a motion for a resolution on research and documentation of the importance of the cultivation plant hemp. In the light of this resolution, it is not disputed that cannabis is an intoxicating, euphoric – or, as always, You want to call that – it has effect. That's what alcohol is known to have. But cannabis also has a variety of other uses: as raw material for textiles, paper, colors, paints, as food, as fuel and what I know, for what else. This is culturally very interesting. We would therefore be pleased if you could agree to the following request. [[Quoted print version removed]] This does not require you at all, but you will then have a study whose results you can take note of or not. But in principle refusing to see a possible new knowledge in such things would I consider problematic. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In conclusion: The liberals will make a request to refer the matter back to committee. This request will be supported by us, but, of course, I believe that only the Minutes are based on motives which are totally contrary to them. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e6164	The motion for a resolution which has just been read has been properly tabled, is supported accordingly and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs Dr. Fekter. Please, ladies and gentlemen. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e6188	The new law on addiction, which we are adopting today, will not solve the problem of addiction, I believe, all of us agree on it. There can only be a way to solve problems, because a search-free society will not exist, it has never existed, and it would be an illusion to believe in it. However, the legislator must respond to the negative social phenomena associated with the drugs, and these phenomena include, first, self-destruction and social uprooting, second, accompanying crime and thirdly, the breaking-up of market mechanisms, which, as Mr Van der Bellen has said, have led to the fact that we have made the Mafia quite large in this area. In recent times, these market mechanisms have been given particular attention in the drug debate, and especially in the demands of the Greens towards release or just state-controlled delivery of heroin is referred to these market mechanisms. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: That's what Leiner from ÖVP wants!]] Mr Van der Bellen! I know the approach that goes in this direction, but I believe that it is still very, very problematic. There is currently a UN programme in Zurich in which the controlled delivery of heroin to addicts takes place. This research programme will demonstrate the overall impact of this. I believe that the President-in-Office of the Council, who hopes that some problems will be solved, will not be as much than the research results obtained from this programme in Zurich and will perhaps be available in two years' time. Until then, I reject a state levy from heroin, which is because we are reacting to the phenomenon of pressure from procurement anyway with substitution programmes. We have been working for a long time with the Methadone programme – only by regulation, now also regulated by law – and I believe that we have already been able to take away much of the pressure. Of course, methadone also has side effects and is probably not the final result of medical research. I assume that the pharmaceutical industry will soon be presenting better substitute products. The market mechanisms are, of course, a huge problem, and we are also responding to it in this law by covering not only drugs but also precursors. It is striking that the transport of precursor substances goes the opposite way, from the consumer countries, the traditional industrialized countries, to the producer countries: e.g. acetic anhydride, which is needed for heroin production, of which 16,5 tonnes were seized in Turkey in 1996. That is to say, the precursors go from the European industry to the producer countries and the drugs come back. These distribution channels are heavily disturbed in international cooperation. The phenomenon of self-destruction, which one of course has to treat socially, we meet with the principle of "therapy instead of punishment". Today, the Liberal Group has acted in particular as if this new principle would not, in any case, be aimed at. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Not for criminals!]] I would like to dispute this, because this principle has already been incorporated as an essential element in the law, generally undisputed and applicable law. You can't ignore that. But the new proposal is that addicts who have committed other criminal acts for the purchase of the addiction needed for their personal addiction may offer other possibilities. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Even if someone beats an old woman?]] Of course, we have to take into account the extent to which it is indebted. And if you, my colleague, have read the law carefully, you know that the criminals do not go free; so it is not, but it is a provisional deposit by the prosecutor – coupled with a very low debt. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: I did!]] That is, if an old woman beats down, then the blame is not low, then this approach does not take place. [[Abg. May. Stadler: As with the Lord Wegas!]] In the case of Mr Wegas, the act has only taken place after the treatment approach, and that is why the punishment is revived. [[Abg. May. Stadler: He didn't treat himself!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You decide!]] That was also the case under previous law, Mr Haider. That was the right already in force. Especially the Wegas case is a classic example of what you can do as a therapy... [[Abg. May. Stadler: Are not only SPÖler, but also ÖVPler on the hundredth list of Mr. Wegas?]] I'm dealing with the drug law and not with the scandal stories. [[Abg. May. Stadler: The Lord Wegas has a hundredlist! Are there any ÖVPler on it?]] It is true, Mr Stadler: The law in force, applied by Mr Wegas, now means that he has to cancel the punishment previously exposed to therapy and a new one for the handheld loading plants et cetera. You can't mix things. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's where the two old ladies have something of it when it comes up!]] The victim always has little of it when it is involved in a criminal act. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's hateful what you're saying!]] Mr Stadler! I do not really want to interrupt my speech by your polemic calls because they do not contribute to the situation. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's not polemic, that's reality!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: The two old ladies will thank you for what you say!]] The law refers precisely to - the Minister has done it - the fact that crimes are naturally committed and criminals in this scene are punished with the whole hardness of the law, but that we want to prevent the little ones on the front, the poor addicts who are sick, not just from bringing them away, but just from the therapy, so that we can take them away from the addiction. I think that is the right approach. The law, which Austria has had for decades and which is now to be modernised, has also led to the fact that, in international comparison, the problem of drugs has not been scaled to the extent that we have experienced, for example, in Switzerland or in Holland. The bocks between liberalisation and prohibition are counterproductive. That is why I would like to continue to know the continuous, moderate path we have taken. In this moderate way, the release does not fit in and it does not fit into the state administration of heroin, because with it we would grow a scene that would only bring us real, big problems. I don't want this scene in Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e6393	Mrs Povysil is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e6414	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! After 26 years, Austria will now join the UN Drug Convention, the Psychotropic Convention. After 26 years, the government suddenly sees an acute need for action. After 26 years, this need for action is so acute that the Health Committee is voting against the will of all the opposition parties that a subcommittee is set up with expert hearing. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I feel it is a purely arbitrariness of the government parties to go through a law that would not have had the slightest chance in the face of closer lighting and professional discussion of different experts. [[New condolences with the liberals.]] Clearly this law is clearly the paradigm change in drug policy. Not prevention, not restriction of drug use, should be the objective of legislative innovation, but a supposedly controlled treatment of drugs. I do not want to argue with you now whether it is a good drug policy to have 250 or 243 deaths a year. This is not a measure of a drug policy for me, that is cynicism. [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is cynicism!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The standard for me is that we have more addictive and much younger addicts than before. Do you know how old the last addicts – last week or last week it was in the newspaper – were they who took up drug use? – 11 years, ladies and gentlemen! 11 years! They're kids, not young people! Now I'm wondering, How do you get such a law? I am very glad that Dr. Litzka was present before – I think he is still here now – because I would like to quote him. This quote comes from a 1991 magazine: "The amendment of laws," he says, "is in Austria like the constant drilling of hard boards. You can do something, you can liberalize something, but very often you have to put in a lot of repression somewhere so you can buy the liberality. It looks very lying," he says, "but it's all the truer. And I," he continues, "is an expert in building laws and representing Parliament. For a long time." Litzka's "Schäufelchen Repression" in this bill can be found relatively quickly. [[Abg. Meisinger: Incredible!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Incredible, Minister!]] It has simply been substantially expanded to include the catalog of illegal substances. But please, this has already been demanded by the UN for 26 years! In addition to this measure of concealment, which could be taken at first glance as an intensification, however, the draft provides for the widespread decriminalisation and liberalisation of drug use. Some examples – many of them have already been discussed, so I'm just going to take a short look at them –: In this amendment, the possibility is given to prescribe or dispensate addictions under the heading of substitution or withdrawal treatment. It is quite clear that you have this possibility. Depending on the interpretation of the law, it means that there is nothing in the way of a state issue of heroin on a health certificate. If Mr. Dr. Rasinger says something else, he has once again sold this law very publicly, but has not read it exactly – as he has often read. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: He's not here anymore!]] Now you tell me – also Dr. Van der Bellen, who you have spoken so much about the prophecy: Is it not something absurd if the doctor gives the alcoholic schnapps treatment? There's a substitution program with methadone. This is not a question, you can apply it now. The principle of "therapy instead of punishment" is also already included in the current addiction law. It's not new, it's true. But after the new novel, a person who has acquired and consumed addiction will have a claim that his crime will be exposed to probation if there are only a small number of people with whom he has acted or who have consumed, if that person himself is addicted and subject to a possible health-related measure. I would like to stress that it is possible for her to be reasonable, but whose success rate is not controlled by anyone. What is also a small or a large amount? – We set a fine for quantities that have not even been defined! These are only subsequently established by the Federal Minister's regulation, that is, the Federal Minister, the government parties have the final say of how this concept of law really should be interpreted. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Depending on how many drug addicts the Minister of Health gets!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Depending on how many comrades are on the list!]] That's the question. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Probably the whole SPÖ is on the list of hundreds!]] Once again on the subject of cannabis, which has been dealt with by the various political groups with so different arguments. If I read the legislative text carefully, I think that the Greens and the Liberals must be happy, because cannabis and hashish are practically released. Ladies and gentlemen! Nothing happens to you if you consume it yourself in small quantities. Nothing happens, you can take it. So what's the excitement for? What did that bring to Holland? – In the 1980s, i.e. from 1980 to 1991, the number of coffee shops in Amsterdam increased from 20 to 300. Do you want that in Austria? Should we consume hashish in an increasing number of coffee shops in Austria, just because we also consume alcohol, just because we smoke? – You can’t justify one evil by another! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The haschish consumption of young people doubled in Holland from 1984 to 1988 by the release. Any youth psychologist or youth psychiatrist will tell you that if more is offered, the young will also try more. It is quite clear that they will try it if it is freely available to them. This is the most important point of all. If students abuse addiction – I told you that it was eleven-year-olds who had been caught in the last few weeks – then they are to conduct a medical examination. But they can say they don't want, and parents can also say they don't want to. What happens then? – It is then necessary to use the district authority as a health authority. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Meal! It takes at least two months!]] But do you know how long you can prove Ecstasy in your urine for example? - Only two days! But when the urine is examined only after weeks, no one can tell whether the youth has actually taken addiction or not. That is what I have argued in the Committee on Health. As a result, Dr. Litzka (cf. Teh) accused me of a lack of fingertips on the children, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. May. Stadler: He knows how to deal with Parliament, the Doctor!]] I have to tell you, with 11-year-old drug users I really lack every fingertip feeling – I just want to know if the child has taken intoxication! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That's what I want to know, and I don't want to be afraid and not look away from a reality that I may not be able to deal with anymore. I would face the problem with my child! This is also the point of the discussion: The recruitment of this society plays an essential role in the emergence of drug addiction in a society. This very attitude is reflected in the relevant law. The problem of drugs is particularly common in those countries which do not have a clear opinion on the problem of drugs. But that is exactly what I miss in this law. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: There is a more than clear statement! That was a self-fall!]] I would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP and you, Mr Rasinger, who are so attached to this law, something: Do you know what Mr Vice-Kanzler Schüssel said in a press release recently on this subject? [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Of course!]] – I quote: Now use the hardest means against drug trafficking. The use of drugs must not be bagatellised on Schickimicki parties. Social apprehension is possible. [[Abg. Dr. Khol and Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Let's go! It's all right!]] – But now, suddenly, liberalisation of the drug law is to be seen on the flags of the ÖVP and the family party! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: It is absolutely not liberalized!]] Honestly, I don't think so, I can't believe it. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You didn't read the law at all, and if you read it, you didn't understand!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: (To Abg. Dr. Khol) Mrs. Dr. Povysil understands a bit more of it, dear Mr. Khol!]] I have read this much more precisely than you and much more precisely than Mr. Dr. Rasinger, whom I have just rejected. Ladies and gentlemen! Due to the lack of therapy centres alone, the motto of "therapy instead of punishment" is just a public eye-catching! That's what I blame you! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] My motto – and I would like to share this motto with our children – is: Give life more life – and less addiction!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e6721	Mr Lacner is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e6742	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. Minister! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Hardly any other issue – the debate today proves this – is being discussed in such a hard and uncompromising way as the legal treatment of drug abuse. One always sees too much forbearance, the other far too much punishment in dealing with this certainly very sensitive and meaningful question. This question is important because it is closely linked to several basic social principles in our society. On the one hand, the question has been raised as to how we deal with those who are no longer able to help themselves and who really need the living solidarity. At the same time, however, the question has been raised in this area as to how we believe that our society should develop further. Unfortunately, these two questions cannot basically be harmonized with each other, because the questions of individual assistance and social objectives are logically only to be considered in isolation. What's this about? – I hope – and I hope that is also your goal, ladies and gentlemen – and wish me a society in which there are no drugs in which no one feels the urge to escape for any reason of reality. But today it has already been sounded several times: This desire is an illusion, and we must therefore really deal with the fact that there are people who misuse the substances of various kinds in the truest sense of the word. At the same time, we have necessarily reached the first individualising question, which should happen to these persons. – The answer in terms of solidarity and help is clear: Help where necessary and possible, and that is it in many areas of drug use. Penalties where punishment is necessary, especially where it concerns larger quantities of addiction, where it concerns resale, and, of course, where it concerns the manufacture and import of such substances. This also means that the State, where neither aid nor punishment is needed, should withdraw as far as possible with its power apparatus. I can easily answer the question of why we do not release the so-called easy drugs, such as cannabis, as has already been done several times in today's discussion. Individually speaking, there may be a complete release – Professor Van der Bellen, I deliberately say "may" – perhaps make sense, but this would be totally contrary to our basic social goal of a drug-free society. We must not neglect the effect of the signal we send through a release or a non-release. Dear ladies and gentlemen! The S & D Group will now vote in favour of the new Drugs Act. It combines the social policy objective of a no to drugs with the fact that there is drug abuse and drug abuse in our society as a real problem, and that the people concerned need help and therapy instead of punishment. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e6783	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Chief. Please, honourable Member. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e6804	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! Mr President. High house! Today's discussion of the new drug law has revealed many facets of the problem. First of all, I would like to deal with the comments made by the first speaker of the Socialist Group, Mr Guggenberger, because I believe that two things must not remain in the room. First of all, I would like to inform Mr Guggenberger that the freedom councils in Tyrol are not Lakaien, as he meant, but, like all the other municipal councils in Austria, they are committed to the Constitution and are also bound by their conscience in their actions. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] He should ask the Tyrolean SPÖ-Landesobmann Prock (cf. Teh) and the Tyrolean SPÖ mayor in Aurach am Achensee (cf. Teh) why they have not succeeded in removing the concerns of the citizens that the drug scene – like for example at the therapy centres in Vienna – is only right. There are legitimate needs and legitimate desire to protect the children, the locals and tourists at Lake Achen from such unloving conditions as are given in Vienna in the context of the treatment centres in the fourth and seventh districts. If Mr Guggenberger had asked there, perhaps his criticism of the speaker's pulp would have been different. As he said, she must definitely be rejected. It is clear that, from my point of view, the amendment of the Addiction Act will improve, for example in the field of medical pain therapy. I believe that in recent years, medical pain therapy in Austria has suffered greatly from the fact that formalism, but also discrimination through abuse with overly clumsy drug prescriptions, has allowed doctors to prescribe what has been proven in pain therapy for decades, which was particularly well known by the long medical experience in pain therapy also with regard to its side effects. Therefore, new, increasingly expensive, ever more expensive and with regard to side effects, more questionable preparations have been incorporated into pain therapy. I hope that there will be some improvements in pain therapy and the use of products that have been proven for decades by the proposed change in this area. I am not satisfied with the law with all the other points and sections that are under discussion here today. I also think that today's debate has gone wrong in many respects. For example, Mr Leiner said that there are some 300,000 alcohol addicts, 500 000 alcohol-hazardous, 100,000 drug addicts and between 12,000 and 18,000 drug addicts in that country, and that, therefore, everything is intended to make use of the liberalisation measures laid down in this new legislation on drugs. – I would like to keep it from my point of view: Perhaps the situation is precisely because there was no liberalisation in the drug sector, there was a certain restriction on prescription in the drug sector, and in the alcohol sector, because of the social tolerance of this addiction, only the purchasing power of the consumer has regulated access to the market at all. I would like to point out that the different figures are therefore also understood by the status quo, namely the graduated system of restriction, and not by the fact that there is a corresponding need for the elimination of mental and social deficits by drugs. I think that the figures would change quite differently if the different access barriers to drugs were changed in the above three areas. The experiences of those countries that have achieved liberalisation trends – such as Switzerland, and especially the canton of Zurich, as well as some states in America – speak a clear language. Although the total number of dependents has not changed where liberalized, the proportions of drug addicts, drug addicts and drug addicts have very likely changed in the total number of drug addicts, the proportion of drug addicts and the number of drug addicts in the three countries studied. If you look at countries on other continents that have different cultural dealings with drugs, it is noted that the consumption of drugs from there, for example chewing betel, chewing coca leaves (cf. Teh) and similar things are tolerated in the states of South America or also in the Arab region, while there are – for example in the Muslim countries of the Asian subcontinent – violent repressions against the drug alcohol permitted in Europe up to the death penalty. I therefore believe that cultural development cannot be completely ignored in this area, and that every state is well advised to minimise the number of permitted and socially-friendly, socially transparent drugs and not to carry out an extravagant policy in this regard. I also think that the problem that has already been raised by my colleagues in the Committee on Health and Social Affairs, and which Mr Ofner, Mr Pumberger and Mr Povysil have already raised here today, should have been much more important, namely the problem that our children's age of drug entry is getting lower and lower. The fact that the criminals are already becoming massively active in the run-up to the school and in the run-up to the leisure care of our children should all of us here in Parliament and not lead us to discuss, to what extent or as here, liberalisation trends from questionable experiments would be derived, which also, if we look at them, have been in the past for a long time. The situation in the often quoted Holland or Amsterdam is not as positive at the moment as the Greens and the Socialist Group have presented it – on the contrary. There, too, there is a need for massive social care. Although those people who have been pushed into permanent, lifelong drug dependence have been decriminalized to some extent, they have failed, perhaps even deliberately, in the human component, namely in the fight against basic suffering, namely drug dependence, by letting them remain consciously dependent. The criticism of the methadone programmes, the criticism of the other substitution programmes that have been tried, is also evident. All scientific experiments in this field have shown, after four to five years of practice, that they have not benefited. [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: The methadone program has not failed!]] I also quote the English prescription system up to heroin: The English doctors have been free to write all drugs available on the market and in the pharmacies according to their medical consciences from a different approach to the health system, in all countries of the British colonial system and in all subsequent countries: from heroin to morphium to methadone, Mr. Rasinger. I would recommend that you take a look at the London City programs, which for five years has tried to promote all drugs – not only methadone, but also all drugs, including heroin, freely written about a recipe – to improve and decriminalize the drug scene in London. [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: You mix two different things!]] But why did you stop it again in the English system? – Because, first of all, one has remained unsuccessful and second, because one has received the red card from the medical ethics commissions – popularly – because the ethical component, the return of drug addicts to a human world with the possibility of free shaping their future of life with all these systems could not be achieved. But the ethical component must not matter to us! We must not ignore the ethical component in a debate on the liberalisation and amendment of the drugs law. It is not about technical terms, nor is it about the criminal frameworks, which remain the same and do not have any intensification trends – it is also shown here for the protocol. Neither the government representatives here at the speaker's desk nor the two Federal Ministers have been able to explain a single step in this direction. One thing is clear: Since the first UN Convention 1971 and the recasts until 1988, only the Annexes have been increased by the respective market shares of the precursors. If you look at the 1971 UN Convention, you have to say that we are now following an almost thirty-year process by finally taking the annexes into account in the Austrian law no longer only as a addiction law, but now as a addiction law. I think this is a long-needed step. That is why we are giving our consent to these two conventions and also to the money laundering convention, as we have already stated in the Committee. Mr Rasinger! However, we do not, of course, consider that what is being recovered here is now being sold as an intensification. But let us not forget at the cannabis discussion that the cannabis plant that is being smoked today is no longer the cannabis plant of 1968, the hippie movement, or the cannabis plant of the previous or previous century! The most important of 426 ingredients to be demonstrated in cannabis is tetrahydrocannabinol, THC, which has the strongest addiction. The cannabis plants, which existed around the turn of the century, only had a share of not even 18 percent THC in the total amount of 426 active substances. The plants that are on the market today and are smoked have a content of THC of up to 60 percent. [[Abg. May. Stadler: The Rasinger finds that harmless!]] I wonder what happens if, in the countries of the southern hemisphere, where the areas of cultivation are located and where these high amounts of content are to be demonstrated in the plants today, agriculture through genetic engineering successfully increases a content of perhaps 100 percent. We know that by increasing the THC content in cannabis smoking, in addition to the known damage to the lung, in addition to the known disorders of the immune system, psychotic crises with massive personality changes are now increasingly happening and that what has been done for this area in the 1960s and is contained in the studies at that time is now obsolete. I know very well from discussions on other subjects that you, Mr Rasinger, as well as you, Mr Leiner, are so moved that you can read the relevant medical literature and not just the daily newspapers. [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: Even though Mr Stadler says the opposite: I am against the hash release!]] And if you look at the January number of the Chicago edition of the new psychological magazine "Science", you will find that published there. I also know, Mr Leiner – even if you laugh today – that you did not want to have a discussion in the Health Committee on the latest literature, because the most recent literature is depressing. They have closed the discussion and have not allowed any subcommittee of the Committee on Health. I say one to you, Mr Leiner: I will not spare you in public to point out to you and your colleagues in the political groups why this subcommittee was not allowed to take place, because the new medical findings in this area are also depressing and undisputable. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I do not need to wait for new medical findings, as Mrs Mutter has said, but I only need to read what is already present in the English market in 1997 at the relevant top A literature and is considered to be the world's recognised basis of science and research. That is why our request for referral back is not only a moral but also a political obligation to keep the mirror on you and your colleagues in the Health Committee and to conduct the literature discussion that you obviously wanted to save yourself!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e6898	Mr Platter is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e6919	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! From the point of view of the Committee on the Interior, from the point of view of internal security, but especially from my personal point of view, I would like to refer to this new law of addiction, which has been active for many years in the criminal service and especially in the field of the fight against addiction. If you look at crime in Austria, it can be seen that overall crime is, of course, slightly reduced, but the organized crime and, above all, the trafficking of addictions is rising. But especially in connection with drug offences, I warn against statistics that have been used several times today, because it depends solely on the number and commitment of executives, how many crimes are reported. Especially in the addiction area, there are almost no ads against unknown perpetrators at all. However, if statistics on drug offences are declining, this does not mean that in Austria, drug trafficking does not flourish. I even claim that in Austria, as many drugs have never been used, as is the case at present. And I have to say quite honestly: The human misery of those affected and the explosive dynamics of addiction crime are very much under my skin personally. Ladies and gentlemen! The fight against drug abuse is undoubtedly a hard matter. It is very easy to discuss, but there are many measures and also appropriate framework conditions necessary to be successful in the fight against addiction. There is no doubt that there is a key role in this regard in the legislation on addiction, which I now want to address in detail. If, in this House, the reputation of some Members is audible after the release of hashish or, at all, all drugs, I am glad that these principles of liberalisation have not been implemented in the draft new drug law. Such liberalisation, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens and the Liberal Forum, would mean that we would have to expect a soot of addicts from different countries, and that would also mean an increased risk for our young people to come into contact with addictions. And we certainly do not want this. It's not going to be in our best interests. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am also very pleased that these drugs will not be released in the future, and that there is no drug addiction in Austria. I do not know where you have read this, ladies and gentlemen, of the liberals. I also welcome the fact that the inadequate legal situation regarding designer drying has been removed. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Dr. Rasinger.]] The trend towards so-called fashion drugs is very noticeable not only in Germany but also in Austria. In particular because of the current legal situation, drug addicts have had very negative experiences. For example, an uptake of 2,000 Ecstasy pills in Lower Austria was not relevant by criminal law because the chemical structure was unknown to the legislator. It is therefore gratifying that the Minister of Health or the Minister of Health can now include fashion drugs in the ban list by means of a regulation and thus react quickly to new trends in the addiction market. From the point of view of internal security, I also welcome the fact that the criminal threat to the new drug law will be unchanged and, in particular, to dealers, a criminal threat of up to 20 years will be foreseen. This is also proof that this law does not provide for liberalisation. [[Abg. May. Stadler: But, Günther, what about the dealer who depends on himself? He'll be free?]] I now come to this critical body of legislation on which I would like to express my concerns; There are several concerns that I have expressed several times in the preliminary discussions. It is that body of law that is intended to extend the provisional assignment of the notification and the postponement of the execution of the penalty to the procurement crime. I would like to express these concerns on the basis of my previous practice, because I had to deal with people who consumed addiction, that is, victims, and, on the other hand, with people who were dealing with drugs, that is to say, a hundred percent of the perpetrators. I would just like to mention the following very briefly: I watched as a young, 14-year-old, sporty guy was driven into the addiction by a dealer. This addiction not only destroyed the young, awakened boy, but of course also the whole family. Actually, the dealer destroyed these young guys and this once intact family. The 14-year-old needed money for his addiction. Mother and father gave him money, the father no longer, the mother secretly. Finally, they had no more money to give it to him to relieve his addiction. In the end, this once nice young guy broke into his own parents ’ house and stole his parents. I don't want to do anything more, but one thing is clear: The dealer bears the blame for this tragedy, exclusively and solely the dealer! In this draft, we have now extended the return of the advertisement to procurement crime. It is planned that in the case of a drug addict who commits a criminal offence, the execution of the penalty will be suspended if he undergoes therapy, under the motto "therapy instead of punishment". [[Abg. May. Stadler: Most dealers are addictive themselves!]] I should like to speak on this point, Mr President. So that there is no false impression: I don't think it's up to me to lock everyone up, because this certainly doesn't mean that you can't cure people, especially those who are victims of these drugs, but there's something different with dealers. In the future, I will take a very close look at when and in which case a penalty has been suspended or an ad has been filed. [[Abg. May. Stadler: And then what are you doing?]] I have no understanding that dealers who drive young people into addiction are being treated humanely. Such punishment is necessary for them. Dealers are strict to punish, even addicted dealers are strict to punish, and the youth is best able to protect from them. [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is no longer possible according to the law!]] This and only that will be the task of the legislator. I shall certainly look at this matter in the next few years. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: I can't do that anymore!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: (To Abg. May. Stadler) That's not true!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Irrespective of this new legislation on drugs, it must be noted that combating drug trafficking will only have a chance of effectiveness if there is widespread international cooperation. [[Calls and counter-calls between honourable Members Mag. Stadler, Dr. Khol and Dr. Rasinger.]] – This issue was certainly corrected. Mr Stadler! We will take a very close look at these cases. We will certainly not allow this place to take place. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I have known the scene for a long time, I know exactly what is happening there, and I am convinced that these things – seven years – which you now suspect will certainly not occur. [[Abg. May. Stadler: How long have you been with the addiction department?]] Let's return to international crime. I believe that, particularly in the area of organised crime, appropriate measures are needed. Austrian security policy must focus more on crime prevention and control. Border controls at the EU's external borders – I don't have a long speaking time, Mr Stadler – are particularly important in the fight against addiction crime. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Günther, vote according to your conviction and not according to what ÖVP suggests!]] In this respect, structural and humane preparations by the Ministry of the Interior are urgently needed with a view to the implementation of the Schengen Agreement. These are still inadequate. In particular, European cooperation to combat international organised crime must be intensified, especially since Austria is increasingly involved in the network of international drug cartels and being built into the end consumer market. Therefore, more action needs to be taken in the area of drug trafficking at European level. To sum up and conclude: I say to the new drug law because the principle of "therapy instead of punishment" is very desirable. I am referring to the new law on drugs, because light drugs or drugs are still being punished at all and no liberalisation can be determined. I also say yes to this draft because the criminal threat will continue to be severe. But, as mentioned above, I am going to observe exactly to what extent with dealers – even with addicty dealers! – the reimbursement of the notification or the postponement of the sentence shall be applied. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That will be the rule!]] I therefore use this clear language because protecting young people from drug dealers is the most important concern in this sensitive matter.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e7113	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Maier. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e7134	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Main complained bitterly about the fact that in the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection, the political groups in ÖVP and SPÖ did not allow the opposition applications to be set up by a subcommittee. I'm allowed to make a lot clear here already: This government template has been available since mid-1996. It would have been easy to point out, in the form of the President, that a subcommittee would be wanted. It would also have been easy if, Mr Stadler, your chairman of the Health Committee, Mr Pumberger, had agreed with the other political groups that a subcommittee would be wanted. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Since this has not happened, it was not necessary for us to accept this request from the opposition parties either. Therefore, from our point of view, the referral – which I am allowed to clarify on behalf of my group – is absolutely rejected. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The Freedom Party has today succeeded in bringing a new concept into the domestic policy debate. According to the "ordinary employment policy" today, Mr Pumberger spoke about the "ordinary drug policy". And what does this "ordinary drug policy" consist of? – It can be summarized with a word: Her drug policy is to lock up. And I would like to say: On behalf of our group, this is strongly rejected. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is precisely for this reason that we are confessing to this new addiction law, because it allows the first-aids, the little ones, the possibility of getting out of this cycle. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Too many prominent reds would be locked in there! Say the waynas!]] A law-and-order mentality to combat the drug problem, Mr Stadler, is absolutely wrong nowadays. They know that minors and adults – not just those from the Schickeria, but quite normal people from best family relationships – simply slip into the drug scene, fall into misery, become criminal, land in detention, and finally be legally sentenced by justice. After release, this cycle begins again. We confess to this drug law because it gives addiction diseases a chance. We can get them out of this diabolic cycle. [[Call the liberals: Let's look at the statistics then!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! Drug addiction cannot only be combated by criminal instruments. Drug addiction is a physical and mental illness with highly social causes. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Society is to blame!]] That is why, I can say quite clearly here, the draft of this drug law has been dealt with quite rightly in the Health Committee, after having previously prepared it in a working group by officials of the Ministry of Health and Justice. It took into account the need for justice and security policy. So that I can express myself clearly here: Criminal law is only part of the anti-drug strategy. The focus must continue to be on prevention and therapy. This draft, which we are deciding today, will meet these requirements. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The Freedom Party has also made it clear that we would not deal enough with the problems of young people and children. In principle, I agree that this is one of the main problems from our point of view. I too believe that it is necessary to clarify more clearly in the field of education. But I also believe that young people should not be criminalised. And that is why we are confessing this draft that we are deciding on today. We cannot agree that, for example, in Salzburg – it was the "Salzburger Nachrichten" of the 25th century. For more information, please refer to October – members of the country of freedom in a public debate have requested that a list be made of those schools in the country where drug abuse has occurred. What would that mean? – There would be "drug schools" that would criminalise schools. Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! Is that what you want? - We don't want that! [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: "Stormish" applause from the SPÖ!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This draft law already provides for a very clear approach in § 35 – Mr Fuhrmann – also the possibility that persons who have committed criminal offences under § 27 or § 30 may benefit under certain conditions from this new regulation. In these cases, too, the public prosecutor may make the announcement provisionally. I am fully aware of this because this is a question of not criminalizing the minors, those who have slipped into the drug scene from any social circumstances. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Explain this to the gendarmerie officials once, what they say about it!]] In our view, ladies and gentlemen, the most stringent sanctions against drug dealers remain. I'd like to tell you one thing: In a European comparison, look at how the other countries of Europe are punishing drug offences. We have the highest penalties in Austria, and I am permitted to highlight this very clearly. [[Abg. Boy: It's not handled!]] It is a question of maintaining these penalties in order to effectively combat organised crime. However, in order to be able to combat them accordingly, further judicial measures are necessary, and I recognise this. In my view, therefore, it will be necessary, particularly from this point of view, to address the questions of the new methods of investigation of final clarification and regulation in this House. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We must meet the dealers and the wholesalers with all the hardships that the rule of law gives us, but with the help of and therapy. A drugless society, as it was often addressed today, will never exist just as a problem-free society. In an open and, as I believe, democratic society, there will always be drugs, unless we strive for a closed society with police state and repressive structures. However, this is a way that social democracy will not go. In conclusion: We strongly confess to this draft, to this drug law. There are those in need of help and therapy, and there is the strictest punishment for those who act as dealers and wholesalers.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e7257	Mr Amon is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member, you have the floor. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e7279	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Let me begin by expressing the conviction that this is a very good law in itself, because on the one hand it stresses the treatment more strongly – and I believe that therapy is a very essential part of drug policy in particular – but on the other hand it makes very, very clear that there will be no release of light drugs. I believe that this is important and important, and I do not believe that it is possible to argue that the release of drugs is easy to release, that we also have an alcohol problem and that we have a problem with the very extensive consumption of cigarettes. Indeed, it would be desirable to continue to deal with these problems and to limit them further. In any case, this is not an argument for creating another problem and therefore advocating a release. [[Abg. Wabl: Why not apply for a ban on alcohol and cigarettes?]] The fight against drugs is undoubtedly a Sisyphus work, and I therefore believe that we need to focus more on prevention. I think the approach is completely wrong, that young people prefer a drug-free world to tell them that a world in which there is no drugs is imaginable. Because fact is that we live in a world where there are drugs, alcohol, tablets, doping agents in sports and similar things. That is why I think it is good to confront young people very early with the problem so as to give them the opportunity to say no to a drug at the crucial moment. But I thought it was problematic to live in a world where you can buy cocaine at "dm". This is a world I do not wish for, a world that I decided to promise the struggle. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] 11 percent of young people between the ages of 13 and 21 already have drug experience. Therefore, prevention and education are the right approach and not – I would like to say that very clearly to the liberals – a pure law-and-order policy as you imagine it. You're making a helicopter policy here again: They land, they swirl up a lot of dust and then disappear again. That's the policy you're making of the liberals! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I ask you very specifically, perhaps someone can answer me in an intermediate call: What are you doing to reduce the drug problem? Is there any proposal? Tell me! [[Abg. May. Stadler: We take over the mandates of the Austrian People's Party!]] I do not believe that, Mr Stadler, and that is the difference. You start helicopter policy, you swirl up dust and then disappear again. They do not take care of this problem in detail. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We as the Young People's Party, for example, are very intensive in this regard. We have been running the "Fantasy instead of Ecstasy" action for a year, in which we had direct contact with 90 000 young people this year. We are faced with discotheques and we are making an investigation because we believe that a policy of education, a good policy of prevention, is all more useful than a purely law-and-order policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is true that we have problems in the area of treatment places. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Friend Kussel won't sign this!]] It is a difference whether one excludes such a "sensitivity friend" or whether he is put in place in municipal council elections, because he has found accommodation with you. That's a huge difference! I can tell you that very clearly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I believe that this law will force us to strengthen treatment sites because we must also offer this therapy if we are to approach the principle of "therapy instead of punishment". I think the release of cannabis products is clearly false and I believe that this law is the right means: that is, where it is needed, but not the release of entry drugs. Thank you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[14:07]] Announcement of an application for the establishment of an investigative committee
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e7376	Deputies Mag. Stadler according to § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure Act requests the setting up of an investigative committee to investigate responsibility in connection with the failed persecution of the murderers of Abdul Rahman Ghassemlou, Fadel Rasoul and Abdullah Ghaderi-Azar, and with the escape of the further suspects of Ebergassing. This is the case of five delegates according to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure proposed that a debate be held on this request. According to § 33 para. 2 Rules of Procedure shall be debated and voted after completion of the agenda. Next word: Mr Wabl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e7403	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm not a drug expert. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: But addiction inendant!]] I don't smoke. I admit that sometimes I like to drink wine, especially Styrian wine. The one from the Zweytick is particularly good, although I would prefer that the Zweytick be a organic wine maker, but that's still coming. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] He'll still have to figure out what's right. [[Abg. Kiss: What about domestic rum?]] I believe that drugs or addiction can be used in a cultured society. I think this is a psychologically interesting institution when people sit together – and some people only show the truth when they drink a glass. Unfortunately, many people show up after two or three glasses, but that's a problem I don't want to discuss now. I have a very important question, which I would like to explain to the important economists of the FPÖ and also to the ÖVP. I brought here three beautiful things, all very important: A bottle of rum – which I enjoy especially in the punch crab –, a pack of cigarettes, and here I brought a little cannabis for the pleasures of cannabis – in a medicine box. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schwarzenberger]] Ladies and gentlemen, if I deal with the rum, I can become very rich. When I deal with the cigarettes, I can become a rich and respected artificial girl. The Austrian state also earns a fair share of the taxes. Ladies and gentlemen, you will be very, very rich. Mauhart, the head of the Austrian tobacco industry, is a respected man, a highly respected man. [[Abg. May. Stadler: He's been off for a long time!]] He's already in retirement or retired. Probably he sold this addiction too little successfully if he had already been dropped, he was apparently not a good dealer. And when I deal with cannabis, ladies and gentlemen, I can get rich, but usually I get to jail. [[Abg. May. Stadler: But where!]] Now I don't understand one thing: I have heard, according to studies, the damage caused by cannabis is relatively low compared to the two addictions alcohol and cigarettes. There are 300,000 alcohol diseases in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! What this means by social misery, personal misery, only those who are either affected by it themselves, or those who as doctors or nurses have to do with it. This is the main problem in Austria, problem number one: 300 000 people! Prohibition is, of course, the wrong way. Mr Van der Bellen has already documented this. In America, although a presidential family has become very rich in the time of prophecy – it has earned a monkey money with it – many people have died because of the loss of quality, and of course it has not been possible to show those dealers who have sold panned drinks. And since alcohol has been reintroduced, the state deserves everything in order, and there is now even a wine culture in America, which has not been there for decades. Ladies and gentlemen! No one would come to the idea of prohibiting alcohol. Yes, you from the ÖVP and from the FPÖ even put a veto in the Council of Ministers when it comes to ban alcohol while driving! They are even opposed to prohibiting alcohol from driving. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: We are not in the Council of Ministers!]] So far you go, Mr. Stadler: If people are to be banned from driving alcohol in the blood car, you feel that this is a restriction on personal freedom, an economic disaster for the candies, for the wine growers. [[Abg. May. Stadler: We are not in the Council of Ministers!]] Mr Stadler! You are not in the Council of Ministers, but you and the ÖVP – at the time Mr Fischler – have successfully prevented this from happening during the vote. That's your policy! That's the problem number one: 300,000 people. Ladies and gentlemen! With regard to cigarettes, I do not know exactly the number of victims: the death victim, the fellow smoker, the cancer disease. The state thus deserves relatively little compared to what results from economic damage. Nevertheless, no one comes up with the idea – and I say: Thank God – to forbid that. I don't know the cannabis problem at all. I would be very interested in the study, which Mr Guggenberger has presented, that it affects intelligence. I've never tried this before. Once I wanted to try it, I think it was 18, but since I'm not a smoker, I couldn't inhale it. This was an unsuitable attempt, and the wine and beer in the inn tasted much better. But, ladies and gentlemen, please tell me why you want to arrest those people who are dealing with it! Please tell me! What makes sense? [[Abg. Young: Wabl wants to release drug trafficking!]] I understand that if you argue that you should not add to two more evils, but you do not come to the idea of prohibiting alcohol or cigarettes. The problem number two has already been raised several times today. Dr. Leiner said that 100,000 people suffer from drug abuse. That's drug abuse, too. I did not know whether Mr Leiner was going to start with Minister Bartenstein when he said today that all the people who earn their money from the disease would have to expect the hardest punishment provided for by the law, because I believe that in some areas the pharmaceutical industry is well aware of the disease and disregards many things. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Wabl, this is dirt what you give of yourself!]] I know scandals with no number where drug sales are misused. Mr Ofner said correctly – he is not here now – that he is afraid that his children can buy the addiction immediately next door. Has he never been afraid because his grandchildren can buy alcohol from the neighbor without problems, buy cigarettes? I give him the right to worry, but the social problems that cause people to seek refuge in drugs – they become addicted because they are looking for something – are not so soluble, ladies and gentlemen. And I can only tell you one thing: You have to explain this contradiction to me. Mr Amon said he does not want to add another third. Ladies and gentlemen! You know very well that the problems can only be addressed if we give these drugs state-controlled control. Alcohol is given away, because if we forbid it, the state will escape the tax revenue, and it will be drunk as well, then these things will be produced secretly in the basement. That's the way it is. Prohibition is pointless, and I find it inhuman for a country and for a society that distinguishes it in this way. I know some cases in the Styria, where children have been stigmatized because they once smoked a hashed cigarette and then somehow tamed through the streets. And when you're drinking alcohol, you say, Well, he's been having too much at the party today. I am not in favour of people drinking, nor am I in favour of constantly smoking with hashing cigarettes or other drugs. But, ladies and gentlemen, the policy you are pursuing here is either short-sighted, cynical or despicable. I have not found the accusation justified that you are only for punishment and just for blocking away. Mr Ofner has long and clearly stated that there is a lack of treatment sites. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Mr. Wabl, who drowned the rum? Was that a greener?]] That is, of course, right, but that is not the problem. We can only deal with this problem if we place the hard drugs on the pharmacies, prescribed by doctors, if it is not possible otherwise, because then the health system must deal with the sick. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Who drunk him out? Is there a place in here?]] And so, as Mr Van der Bellen says, we would withdraw Mafia from the economic base. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Schwarzenberger says you've drunk the rum!]] And I'll tell you: This serious crime, which you are talking about, is usually closely linked to the crime of weapons, and it is also taking place in Austria. Read the "Süddeutsche Zeitung": Austria is a major hub of this serious crime. I would like you to be here with this vehemence by the liberals when it comes to fighting serious crime in this area. I have no understanding of this, Mr Stadler, if you want the Mafia to become rich. I don't want to, but I'm going to keep my mind on it. [[Abg. May. Stadler: I want to know who drunk the rum!]] – Want the last swallow Still drinking rum? My grandmother used it for cake baking. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You drank him before you talked!]] I do not want to make any negative advertising now, therefore I do not say anything about it and take the rum bottle back to me, but, ladies and gentlemen, please explain this to me. Mr Stadler, I do not know how old your children are. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Very nice little children!]] Very small? Then you don't have a problem with that. I wish you that your children, once they reach out for a drug because of the lack of life, do not resort to rum, not to the cigarette, and not to the hashish, but to the greens. [[Abg. May. Stadler: If you don't make rum advertising in Parliament, they won't do it either!]]
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e7668	Mrs Pittermann is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e7689	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Since so much debate has already been made on this draft law, I would just like to make a few points. It is important to be allowed to use generous analgesicly effective addictions in severe pain conditions. In Austria, less alkaloid consumption in medicine is not due to restrictive laws, but rather to the fact that, unlike Scandinavia, potent non-morphine analgesics are accepted by us and the side effects of the alkaloids are often perceived as unpleasant. The doctors are experienced in the use of morphines and analogues, and only very rarely are treated patients dependent. Some groups complain that cannabis is neither used medically nor freely available in Austria. I refuse to release cannabis as negative effects on the brain have been described in scientific work and the group pressure to consume when released is greater. But let me tell you about "left schickeria" from a newspaper article from the "Kronen Zeitung" of 28th century. ==References====External links== That's what it says: "Steiric fitnest emperors fell into prison, bodybuilders and burglars as compliments. - Sudden drugs in prosthesis. His Kapfenberger Fitneß-Studio had brought him 7.6 million schillings each year to membership contributions, but that did not result in Gerhard Bleiweis (31). In his leg prosthesis, he smuggled drugs to Austria, earned millions. Now he's in prison with two compliments, but the debt is higher than ever before..." Does Mr. Bleiweis belong to the "left Schicki-Micki scene"? - No, he's a free politician! [[Call SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Who is this? I don't know!]] A drug dealer! They are "innovative", no party has a drug dealer in their ranks. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Who is this?]] Mr. Gerhard Bleiweis from Kapfenberg, this is your candidate! [[Abg. May. Stadler: We are waiting for the Wedas list!]] His motto: "As a successful young businessman, I see the need to develop future-oriented strategies." – He did it, I congratulate you on this candidate! You've got some "doll" politicians in your ranks and you're always just talking about the others. [[Lively congratulations to the SPÖ and to representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Mrs. Colleague, we are waiting for the Wegas list! She's got the Wedas list, she says! Where's the Wedas list?]] Talk afterwards! Sign up for a word, and get used to always talking, you rude person! [[Lively applause with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Mrs. Colleague, we are waiting for the Wegas list!]] You're not supposed to talk at last! You can speak, an actual correction is for you. Your eternal three-way speech... – Here you have it, please, I am certainly not on the Wegas list. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Is it true that Zechner is on it? – Call me the Wedas List!]] [[a paper showing]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Tell me: How many red are there? Is it true that prominent reds should be on it? – She has the Wegas list, she says!]] With regard to medical application... [[Prolonged calls of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] Mr President, please take it easy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Mrs Colleague, please, the Wegas list! Which reds...?]] Well, you'll probably have read it in the paper! Report to the actual correction, sign up for a word, and read it!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e7847	High house! I call Mrs Pittermann. I'm asking you to respect that. [[Further calls in the liberals, including recent calls of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] At the word – I repeat it again – is Mrs. Dr. Pittermann. I ask you to respect this. – Ladies and gentlemen, if you please continue.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e7883	I have to say that you are being disavowed by your own group as President. With regard to medical use, I would like to note that a study on the use of a cannabis derivative has been submitted to the Ethics Commission in the AKH. If this drug were to prove and prove particularly innovative in studies, it might be possible to obtain an authorisation. However, before each new registration, scientific reviews are essential. I see neither the need nor the possibility to place heroin on prescription or through therapists, as it is not allowed as a drug. As the methadone program shows, morphine analogues are interchangeable because of the same receptor. Access to treatment sites must be possible for those concerned at any time. As vital as the therapy is, the prophylaxis is so important. A critical prescription of benzodiazepine preparations should be avoided due to the high potential for addiction. It is precisely this target group that is particularly at risk. Psychotherapist treatment is more complex, but more effective than rapid relief of the symptoms caused by tranquilizers or sleeping agents. We Socialists have always represented the principle of "helping instead of punishing". [[Abg. May. Stadler: Oh, that's it? That's what you hear! What about the Wegas list?]] – We don’t have drug dealers as politicians, so we don’t have to give them up. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Can you rule out the fact that a socialist politician is on the Wegas list?]] Not the addict is to fight – lock away, lock in – but the addiction. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Can you rule this out?]] I can't rule out anything at all, but, as I said, you already have yours in the media. You're already in prison. It's a drug dealer, the other one might be a user. You have your drug dealers with you, your "innovatives"! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's not true! Ask the Minister how many red top politicians are on the Wegas list!]] Mr President. Let us see that there may be some peace and quiet! So it is not the addictive person that is fighting, but the addiction, the businessmanship and, above all, the cause of drug addiction. [[Abg. May. Guggenberger: (showing a paper in the direction of the liberals) This is a Vöcklabrucker functional!]] [[Call the liberals.]] We politicians...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e7983	For the third time: Let me perhaps point out that Mrs Pittermann is speaking. The word 'debate' appears in the Rules of Procedure, but in a different sense than it is now. I would ask you once again to respect the speech made by the honourable Members, namely all the political groups. .. [[Other calls]]
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e8004	We politicians must create the social conditions to enable people to live fear-free without repression. We want a society that does not elicit weaker ones, despises, ridicules them, but offers help and solutions to problems. The stronger should not exploit the weaker, but should bear responsibility for his decent existence. [[Abg. Dr. Khol went to the government bank with Minister Dr. Michalek and spoke to him.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: The Khol already asks who is on the Wegas list!]] You still don't shut up?- Oh, my God! Mr President...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e8048	Mrs. Dr. Pittermann! "Keeping the mouth" is also not the appropriate expression in this House, if I may allow myself to comment. [[Complaints and bravails of the Agg. May. Stadler.]] Please make great use of your speech, Mrs Deputies. I would also like to ask the political groups to refrain from making calls. I repeat: The word "debate" is not used in the Rules of Procedure in the sense that it is now "delegated" here under quotation marks.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e8072	If politicians reject those weaker ones as blackmailers who exploit the skilled, hard-working, decent, most likely to send these weaker ones to prison camps, then we must not be surprised by the de-olidarization of society and the use of drugs. But of course: For drug dealers, drug use is ideal. [[Abg. May. Stadler: "Debate" does not mean reading, Mrs. Primaria!]] It is human right, free from concerns about the workplace, home and future, to live equally with the opposite sex, other generations, religious communities and nations. [[Prolonged calls of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] – This perseveration is a little boring. Our main concern is children and young people. So that they do not consume drugs, we must strengthen their self-confidence, teach them to believe in themselves, say no, but we must not destroy their hopes and dreams. Those who feel accepted don't need to escape from this world. Drug - dependent youths usually have a serious fate behind them. It is our duty to help them out of their hell, not to punish them. Every schilling we invest in prevention and help is a well-designed one. In addition to lexicon-like knowledge transfer, the schools should teach communication and problem-solving in order to make people at risk of abstinence able to communicate without the relaxing effects of alcohol, nicotine and other drugs. This law is a step in the right direction: Prevention and therapy instead of punishment. We Social Democrats continue to fight for the social conditions, for a poor society and will continue our humane path.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e8130	To make an actual correction, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl. – Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e8155	Mr President. I put to the vote Mrs Pittermann's statement: The President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Bleiweis, has neither a close relationship with the Freedom Party nor a function, nor a mandate, nor anything else to do with the Freedom Party. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Perhaps you should also check the other papers that are currently publicly cursing in the context of Wegas for members of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e8184	However, you have exceeded the actual correction. Mr Dr. Khol is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e8205	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Wabl! I would ask you to make it clear that there was no cannabis in this box because I assume that you, as Members, also respect the laws. The possession of small quantities of cannabis is also punishable for everyone, for every young person, for every person in the Republic. I would ask you to make it clear that you had an empty box here.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e8233	Mr Wabl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). This is the second word. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e8251	Thank you, Mr President, for taking note of my speech. Mr Khol, on the drama you have spread here: I wanted to introduce Bayer's cough juice here. He was once involved with heroin, and heroin has the known "interesting" effects. These are nostrils – I'm not advertising for the company here – that's quite simple nose drops, and I've thought you're provoking a word message, and we're also hearing from your mouth how you're dealing with this problem. [[showing a bottle]]
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e8292	Please, Mr. Dr. Khol.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e8310	Mr Wabl! I would like to remind you of the words that have once been given in a judgment of the Administrative Court: There is no human being in the rule of law above the law.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e8345	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. A final word from the rapporteur is missing. We are entering the voting procedure. I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to take up your respective place for this purpose. As regards the draft law concerning a federal law on addictions, psychotropic substances and precursors, as well as other laws amended (652 of the supplements), MEPs have submitted a referral request. I would therefore like to begin by voting on this referral request and ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of it to have a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. We now come to the vote on the draft federal law, which lays down rules on addiction, psychotropic substances and precursors and amends other laws, including title and entry into 652 of the supplements. Mr Hiezu has tabled an amendment to the motion for a resolution by Mr Motter, Mr Haidlmayr and Mr Comrades. The Members of Parliament also have power. Guggenberger, Dr. Leiner and Comrades submitted an amendment to Article I, Section 2, para. 2, § 43 para. 5 and § 47 and Articles III to VII and X. I would therefore like to begin by referring to the part of the amendment tabled by Mr Motter, Mr Haidlmayr and Mr Comrades, and finally to the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on, in the version of the Committee's report, taking account of the amendment tabled by Mr Mag. Guggenberger, Dr. Leiner and comrades vote. Members of the Motter, Haidlmayr and comrades have tabled an amendment concerning Article I(8). I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are speaking for it. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule I(8) as amended by the Committee's report. In case of your consent, I'll ask you for an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report, taking account of the amendment tabled by Members. Guggenberger, Dr. Leiner and comrades. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done by the majority. The request was accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to give their approval to the draft law at third reading too, to give an appropriate sign. – This is done by the majority. I note, therefore, that the draft law was adopted by a majority in third reading. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution by Mr Motter and Mr Comrades on the decriminalization of cannabis. In the event of your consent, I ask you for a sign to be given. – This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Haidlmayr and Mr Comrades on the legalisation of cannabis. I'm asking for an appropriate sign. – This is done by the minority. The request is therefore rejected. [[Unrest.]] I ask for a little more rest – or for rest at all if that would be possible. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Petrovic and Mr Comrades on research and documentation on the importance of hemp culture. In the event of your consent, I ask you for a sign to be given. – This is the minority. Rejected. We now come to the vote on the request of the Health Committee to give approval to the conclusion of the State Treaty and its annex and declaration in 125 of the Supplements. In the event of your consent, I would ask you to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. The application is therefore accepted. I now turn to the Committee's request that the present State Treaty be applied within the meaning of Article 50(l) of the Treaty. 2 B-VG by passed laws to be complied with. In the event of your consent, I would ask you to give an appropriate sign. – This is done by the majority. The request was accepted. We shall proceed to the vote within the meaning of Article 49(2). 2 B-VG that the Arabic, Chinese, French, Russian and Spanish language version of this State Treaty must be made known by means of a public consultation in the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this motion to give an appropriate sign. – This is done by the majority. The application is therefore accepted. We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on Health, the conclusion of the State Treaty, the Annexes and the declaration in 147 of the Supplements. In the event of your consent, I would ask you to give an appropriate sign. – This is done by a majority. The authorisation is thus granted by a majority. I now turn to the Committee's request that the present State Treaty be applied within the meaning of Article 50(l) of the Treaty. 2 B-VG by passed laws to be complied with. In the event of your consent, I would ask you to give an appropriate sign. – This is done by the majority. The request was accepted by a majority. Finally, we shall proceed to the vote within the meaning of Article 49. 2 B-VG that the Chinese, French, Russian and Spanish language version of this State Treaty must be made known by means of a public consultation in the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In the event of your consent, I would ask you to give an appropriate sign. – This is also done by the majority. The request was accepted. 4. Point Report of the Health Committee on the Government Template (127 and 127 of the Supplements): Conventions on money laundering and the investigation, confiscation and recovery of proceeds from crime, together with declarations (655 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e8571	High house! We're now on the 4th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The first mention is made by Mr Mag. Listen to me. – Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e8595	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In principle, there would be nothing to object to the ratification of the agreement on money laundering from the point of view of content if the whole complex of money laundering – I must expressly stress this – were not always to be dealt with at times, but would be negotiated in one and put on a suitable legal basis. I think it is essential that we see an integral link there and that not what is opportune is subject to decision-making, but is just integral, forward-looking, in a package. The package solution, it's going off. Ladies and gentlemen! Reality looks completely different. As you know, the question of anonymity has become a case for the European Court of Justice, it is almost a case for the European Court of Justice, a case whose final enforceability will last for a period of one to one and a half years. Although you, ladies and gentlemen, know very well today that the decision of the ECJ will certainly be negative, in other words, in favour of the abolition of anonymity, you remain inactive in this important question and then pretend to be further outward as if everything were palette, as if this question of anonymity were not an issue. I simply refer to this as an unreasonable policy of fact-making, and this policy, ladies and gentlemen, will coincide like a house of cards! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Indeed, the government fractions have better to do than address acribie to the problem solution. The government is currently very concerned about questions of the future single currency, which is not bad at all – only: The government does not make any progress in this sector either. The government has something better to do: It appoints a former Secretary General of the Sparkassenverband, Mr Gustav Raab, as an independent educational body. It is used by the government as a highly official expert, and a few weeks later it turns out that Mr. Raab appears on an official list as a highly official EU lobbyist not to clarify, but to push this question, to generate a pro vote. These are the concerns of the government parties, that moves them. The question of anonymity, the question of a ordinary banking law does not concern it. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Propaganda instead of information!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We need to see this integral context. Not only can we take out a piece, but we can ratify it, because perhaps we are bowing down to international pressure, so I welcome the fact that the organized money laundering system, which is also driving its inconsistencies in Austria, is being persecuted and also criminalized. Ladies and gentlemen! Instead of finally improving banking secrecy in Swiss or Luxembourg, as repeatedly demanded by the liberals and also supported by appropriate applications, you are now putting into force an agreement that, despite a positive basic content, is in fact only suitable for calming Austria's conscience abroad, but more than that will probably not be. And you are negotiating the implementation of the money laundering agreement, for example, not in the Committee on Finance and not in the Committee on Justice, but you are also putting the summit on it and negotiating it in the Committee on Health. So, ladies and gentlemen, it really is not possible! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In my opinion, this procedure was deliberately chosen, and that is why no one can come to the idea of pointing out that there is something missing, namely those protection provisions for savers and investors, which prevent the state from taking an insight into all accounts under the pretext of "money laundering", just because someone expresses a suspicion – whether he is justified or unfounded. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say very clearly: We are free to fight against international money laundering organisations, and in this way national implementation is important. But we also need to talk about the timing of implementation, and I am of the opinion that this can only happen at the same time as the introduction of an improved banking law, an intensification of banking secrecy. Not before and not afterwards, but at the same time, this must happen. Otherwise, ladies and gentlemen of the government groups, you will create a prejudice. But it does not seem to disturb you on this prejudice. For a long time, the Committee on Justice has had an own-initiative proposal from the liberals to amend the banking system. But you don't mind. This request has been sent to the Committee on Legal Affairs only because, as I said earlier, the coalition parties still do not see any need for action. Our deadline request was also recently rejected, because there is no need for action on the part of the SPÖ and the ÖVP. It is impossible to imagine that the liberals work faster, more precisely and more civilly than the government parties. This impression can and will not be made, it is understandable from your point of view, only the citizen, ladies and gentlemen, who does not understand. I congratulate you on this "tire" performance, to move the problems to the Sankt-Nimmerleins day forever and ever. With regard to the example I have just brought, it has been successfully walled. However, we liberties will not stop us from calling for this subject to be a sustainable one. Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! The need for explanation in one or one and a half years towards the Austrian population will not be ours, but you, if Austria has probably signed and ratified the money laundering agreement, but has neither anonymity nor a reasonable banking secret available in Austria and thus sufficient protection provisions against abuse have been created. No one will understand, but you will have to answer that.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e8653	Mr Ing. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, Mr President, at 3 p.m. your remarks would be interrupted if you wanted to speak for so long.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e8674	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The main branch of cross-border crime is, in addition to illegal gambling, order murders, illegal poison care, credit card fraud and interest fraud, as well as the smuggling of drugs, weapons and stolen vehicles, up to women for prostitution and illegal immigrants. The result of these crimes is the sum of black money that will be washed white. Global sales estimates for this amount to up to 10 trillion schilling a year. As a result, this industry achieves a greater overall yield than the crude oil production of all oil exporting countries. The total amount of money washed corresponds to 2 percent of the gross social product produced worldwide. The lion's share of it continues to increase in drug trafficking. The fight against money laundering is the most important task if the vicious circle of drug trafficking is to be broken. Unfortunately, the organized crime of the executive is still far ahead, and that is why the international community must react. The criminals travel, have their base in a country from which they operate in other countries. Whoever doesn't travel is justice. The extension of witness protection programmes or the cross-border exchange of evidence can only be seen as a first step in the fight against this Hydra. It is always clear that a network can only be combated by such a system, which is why cooperation in the fight against crime needs to be extended to a global system of coordinated measures. This includes bilateral and multilateral extradition agreements and similar forms of mutual assistance. Thus, as the only means against money laundering, among other things, the International Monetary Fund and the UN have long recommended enhanced international cooperation with binding international conditions in order to coordinate the global fight against money laundering. An important step in this direction has been taken with the agreement on money laundering to be ratified by us today. The aim is to align the international provisions on money laundering and the identification, confiscation and recovery of delicately acquired assets and to improve international cooperation in this area. The Convention is based on the principle of pursuing a common criminal law policy while applying modern and effective methods at international level. For Austria, positive emphasis has been placed on the fact that the Council of Europe's Convention on Money laundering has succeeded in achieving the same level as on 1 January. March of this year to ratify the Law on Criminal Legal Change. Through the combination of international conventions and the National Criminal Change Act, an effective and powerful instrument for combating this form of serious crime is available to us for the future. All forms of crime, in particular offences, such as illicit drug trafficking, are covered. At the heart of the Convention is the broad concept of the property and the reference to it and therefore the same broad concept of its yield. The aim is to ensure that every economic advantage, whatever its nature, is taken up by a criminal act. It is therefore not necessary for the asset to be in possession of the person who has committed the criminal act. This can also capture and exploit those assets that have been attacked by others who have been attacked by the perpetrator. However, this newly created instrument for the levying of illegal enrichment is intended to cover, in addition to the funds granted to the perpetrator by the crime, those grants received for the commitment of crimes, regardless of whether these crimes have actually been committed. In order to achieve and implement all of this in practice, the Convention provides for a complete set of rules covering all stages of the procedure, starting from the first investigation to the imposition of recovery decisions, and providing for a flexible system of international cooperation at all these stages of the process. It is a clear progress compared to the previous situation, which could only be based on general legal assistance, on agreements between the individual States. An essential condition for achieving this objective is the obligation to create national minimum standards which allow Member States to withdraw the fruits of their crimes from the perpetrators. The Convention seeks to reduce differences between national legal systems. However, equality between national legislation is not a goal and a consequence of the Convention. Ladies and gentlemen! With the adoption of the Convention, we can lay another important foundation in the fight against organized crime. But until the whole building stands, I fear that we will still have a long way to go, which we still have to go, or that's why.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e8739	The next speech is by Mr Dr. Stummvoll. At 3 p.m. I have to interrupt, so you have 6 minutes at your disposal. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e8760	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker, Mr Kaipel, presented the content of this Convention in great detail. I would therefore also like to take a very short look at the interruption at 3 p.m. and highlight just a few points. I agree with my previous speaker that this Convention of the Council of Europe represents an incredibly important further step in the context of an internationally agreed procedure against organised crime. In fact, I believe that there is a need for a common approach by the Western industrialized countries. The Convention is very comprehensive. It includes virtually all offences: Drug trafficking, arms trafficking, trade in nuclear substances, trafficking in human beings and so on. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.]] I would like to return to Mr Firlinger's call. Mr Firlinger has – and I regret it the same as I did in the debate on 27 February. In a European dispute, as a Member of the House, he regretted a position which was not the position of the Republic of Austria. I regret this because in a European dispute the members of the House should actually be on the side of the Republic of Austria and not on the side of the opponent. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The question of money laundering and anonymity is, I believe, very clearly to answer. Mr Firlinger! There are two areas where there is still anonymity, namely the anonymous securities deposits – provided that after 1. However, the identity must be checked on August 1996, and the anonymous savings book. To this end, I must say: Whoever believes that he can carry out money laundering with anonymous savings books is a big mistake, is actually a dreamer, as you say correctly, Mr Auer. [[Abg. Auer: Dreamer!]] Mr Firlinger! Money laundering means that dirty money is fed into the cycle and comes out of it cleanly. Explain You here, like a savings book to be presented at the switch where a little pensioner may have a few thousand schillings to be used for money laundering?- Oh, my God! It is only yesterday that we decided in the Council of Ministers on the opinion of the Republic of Austria to the European Commission, which points out in detail in 11 points what steps we have taken autonomously against money laundering in Austria since 1987. You know as well as I do that Article 189 of the EU Treaty states that the objective of preventing money laundering is binding, but the choice of resources for achieving objectives is free for the individual Member States. Mr Firlinger! You really argue against better knowledge, and I think you are. You argue here against better knowledge against the official position of the Republic of Austria! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I do not think we need to be accused by any opposition speaker that we have started the international fight against money laundering very intensively, through targeted effective measures. – Mr Firlinger, you are taking an outsider position there! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[14:57]] Announcement of an application for the establishment of an investigative committee
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e8819	In accordance with § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure requested the setting up of an investigative committee on the responsibility of members of the Federal Government in connection with the murder of Dr. Abdul Rahman Ghassemlou (cf.Si) and his two confidants. In addition, this is the case of five delegates, according to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure proposed that a debate be held on this request. According to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure shall also be debated and voted on after completion of the agenda. I am now interrupting the negotiations on Agenda item 4 to 15 for the purpose of calling for a short debate. The sitting was suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 2.58 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.) Short debates on deadline applications
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e8861	I will start the negotiations again, and we will now proceed to the brief debate on the request made by Mr Magn. Barmüller, the Justice Committee for Reporting on the application 210/A concerning a federal law amending the Genetic Engineering Act 1994, a period of time until 14. ==References== After the end of this debate, the vote on the motion for a resolution will take place. We are now going into the debate. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the applicant has a speaking time of 10 minutes, that each speaker has a speaking time of 5 minutes. Mr Barmüller is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 10 minutes speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e8891	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We have therefore returned this proposal for a time limit to the request which we have tabled over a year ago on the genetic engineering law, because, after the genetic engineering people's desire and its outstanding success, it has also been said by the government that it is now ready to start these negotiations and move forward here in Parliament. We believe that what we introduced a year ago constitutes a suitable basis for negotiation and that there is no reason to wait, if we have already been told, Mr Leiner, to come to a conclusion until the summer. It would therefore be good to negotiate this request, which is already in the house. The Committee on Health's proposals have also been negotiated, which have been put on the agenda in the run-up to genetic engineering demands, so that it is not possible to give the impression of refusing to do so. The deadline application is as follows: May, there's the next National Council meeting. - I know that's relatively short. Ladies and gentlemen! All that is contained in the proposal we made here in the House over a year ago, you can ultimately read in the report on the Committee of Inquiry. This report was adopted unanimously here in the House immediately before the adoption of the Genetic Engineering Act. I can only make it happen briefly: We demand that there be more protection for the population and for the environment by also granting environmental lawyers a party position and a right of appeal to the courts of public law. We believe that information and control should be strengthened by the Minister of Health, and are therefore designed to establish a genetic engineering register to cover all notifications and applications for approval. Ladies and gentlemen! We believe that a central point will be the very rules of liability. We need our own liability regulations in the Genetics Act. This has, of course, been promised in the debate on the genetic engineering law, as Mrs Rossmann knows. The fact is, however, that the coalition has remained guilty of the environmental liability law, despite the decision of the genetic engineering law here in the house to this day. There is a draft at the Federal Minister for Justice. But he's in the drawer, he's not taken out, he's not being negotiated. The debate on environmental liability in this House has not been pushed forward since the decision-making of the Genetic Engineering Act. Ladies and gentlemen! Again: It is necessary to provide for provisions in relation to the difficult detection situation, which could have been caused by damage to genetic technology, because it is about minimal causalities and because it is simply intended to help individual victims to explain that they have suffered a damage. This is still outstanding, that should be done. That is not enough for those liability provisions that we have today. Ladies and gentlemen! I should also like to remind you that there are already provisions and legal figures in the Forestry Act, which would also be applicable in the field of genetic engineering. These legal figures – I am referring specifically to § 54 of the Forestry Act – have ultimately emerged from the fact that even where forest damage is caused by Immissions and not exactly detectable where the shares come from, other regulations for the damaged, more easily instrumentizable regulations were found. This is something that the Liberals have also wanted to discuss in the field of genetic engineering. Ladies and gentlemen! In addition, we believe that those companies which work in the field of genetic engineering and also make releases should take precautions, and that they should be prescribed by law, so that they can actually satisfy claims for damages if something goes wrong. This is something that is only fair in the cost-benefit distribution. It cannot be assumed that one only wants to privatize profits, but to overturn the risks to the general public. I don't think anyone here in the house, no one else from those entrepreneurs who do that, ultimately wants it. Therefore, we should also take legal precautions to ensure that such safeguards take place, whether through insurance or through the company itself. Finally, a very central point is that we are saying that we want a clear and understandable label on all products that have been shown to have been produced either by genetic engineering or by genetically modified organisms containing genetically modified organisms or parts of them. Even if they are no longer detectable by scientific means but have been very well established in such processes, this should be marked so that consumers have the chance to make a real decision by saying that I want to make this a product produced by genetic engineering, or by saying, no, I want to buy another product, one that has been produced in organic farming, because it is ultimately also a decision on which policies in the field of agricultural policy are to be pursued in the future. If one wants a more industrialized agriculture, then genetic engineering is also a means of doing so, or if, as has often been said in Austria, one wants a more organically oriented agriculture, then another decision must be made by consumers before the supermarket shelf. But we must also enable consumers to make this decision. That is why the Liberal amendment, which has been in the House for over a year now and has not been dealt with, is one of the key points in this clearly understandable and clear labelling. Ladies and gentlemen! The last point of our request is that we say that it is impossible to see that the duration of the procedure within which requests for release must be decided may be only three months. It is generally in accordance with the administrative procedure laws in such a way that a decision must be taken at the earliest possible time, but not later than in six months. We also consider it to be In the field of genetic engineering procedures, it is appropriate to decide at the earliest possible time, but also to allow a period of six months, if it is necessary to provide the relevant documents and form an opinion. Ladies and gentlemen! In all its contents, the proposal as a whole – which has been mentioned here again – is very, very strongly based on the report of the Committee on Genetic Engineering, which was adopted unanimously here in the House. At that time, in 1994, this was not discussed by all the political groups. Everyone has said that these are measures that should be implemented. The fact that they were not taken into law by the then Minister of Foreign Affairs and that it was meant that it would be useful to split this into two laws would be put down. That's shed milk. The fact is, however, that it is high in time – I think the genetic engineering people's desire has also proved this – that we are renegotiating this matter. The corresponding applications have been in the house for over a year. The purpose of this proposal for a deadline is to ensure that this discussion is now being carried out very quickly. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e8963	The next speech is by Mrs Pittermann. From now on, a speaking time limit of 5 minutes per speaker applies. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e8984	Mr President. High house! Genetic engineering causes fears – startled by media, whose argumentation is very much linked to it. It seems to be in the nature of man to reject new things, as every boss who wants to motivate employees knows. Our task is to deal critically with this technology and its use. Socrates already showed insight into our ignorance with the following quotation: I know I know almost nothing, and hardly that. So I admire those who deny everything. The Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection is working on this. On April 1, 1997, the Federal Government, as well as the Federal Government, took part in the debate on this subject. There is no danger in the delay, namely that immediate action is necessary. At the moment, I would just like to address one point of the request which concerns me professionally. The patient of the hospital, but also the physician, of course, is liable for any therapy. Since therapies are almost always an intervention into the integrity of the body, it is necessary to weigh action, risk and necessity against each other before any therapy. No therapy is risk-free and patients need to be informed according to the current state of knowledge. For all new technologies and inventions, long-term effects can only be estimated after years. All those who so often devastate technique, medicine and chemistry and in the Roussauschen call "Back to Nature!" Finally, they have overlooked that they have only made it possible that life expectancy has practically doubled with us in this century. We Social Democrats are also critical of genetic engineering. But we do not want to prevent science, nor to push it into forbidden secrecy. We do not want to panic against our people, nor do we want to make it clear to the Austrians, who are well known for travelling, that they can live free of genetic engineering in this world. In order to be able to deal responsibly, sufficiently and forward-lookingly with this matter, we reject the deadline request.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e9024	The next speaker is Mr Leiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e9046	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to focus briefly on the request. On the first two points relating to the party position of the environmental lawyer, I would like to say that in both cases this party position is required where, after the GTG, a public hearing has already been held. Therefore, an extension of the party's position to environmental lawyers is essential. Otherwise, everything only becomes more bureaucratic. Point 3: The 90-day free movement for the approval of requests for release would be in stark contradiction with EU law, which does not allow for stricter national rules. Point 4: The fact that the time limit for comprehensive reporting of accidents is reduced from 14 days to one week would therefore be rejected because there would be too little time available for an assessment of the impact of the accident. It takes enough time to carry out a serious and good assessment. Point 5: § 55 concerns labelling. As this label is to be seen, § 62 of the GTG is already regulated and described very precisely. The amendment therefore concerns the wrong section GTG, and in substance it does not do anything either. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Point 6: I am against the fact that representatives of the National Council or the Parliamentary Club are being sent to the genetic engineering committees, because the debate should not be conducted Party-politically, but that this Commission should, as far as possible, be composed of experts and object-oriented people. [[Abg. May. Barmüller:... social partners!]] On the genetic engineering register, I would like to point out that the Federal Minister must already present a report. In fact, such a register is not necessary because everyone in the Federal Ministry can ask questions. Liability is something else. One could discuss this even further, but the GTG already explicitly provides for a strengthening of liability: First: It subjects natural products that are GMOs to the Product Liability Act. Secondly, It assumes the liability of the Medicines Act for Gene Therapies by declaring the provisions of the AMG on clinical trials applicable – § 76 GTG – and as a Protection Act, it causes anyone who does not comply with the GTG and thereby causes a damage to be criminally liable under civil law, provided that he cannot prove that he is not guilty. So that means turning back the burden of proof. Since the GTG requires that any damage must always be done in such a way that no damage occurs, in particular in Sections 13 and 45 of the GTG, any damage falls under this burden of proof. It is therefore appropriate to discuss the level of release. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e9084	The next speaker is Mr Schweitzer. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e9106	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We will agree to the deadline. It is a similar request from us since May 1996 in the Health Committee, whose focus is also the question of liability. Mr Leiner! That is the central point, the question of liability. You tried to weaken it. The fact is that this technology will create a large number of uncertainties and there is no risk of risk of allergy, resistance et cetera. Horizontal gene transfer can create constructions that we really can't expect at the moment, and follow-up effects that we can't foresee. The question of resurgence has not even been discussed in the discussion before these two popular desires. The question of long-term consequences is also absolutely opaque and opaque. There is an unexplained number of questions, but still no clear rules of liability. I hope that we will not need them because genetic engineering in Austria will not be in the form of what you may hope or believe. Nevertheless, one should take care of the event and deal with the liability accordingly. This genetic engineering law should be reformed as soon as possible, and that is why we will also agree to this deadline.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e9141	The next speaker is Mrs Klara Motter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e9165	Mr Leiner! Faith You do not also, if you all reject all our demands here, that the opposition also has a right to submit applications which are then dealt with and should not be in the drawer for over a year? [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dr. Leiner: But they should be useful!]] They make sense! I'll explain it to you. Now on the comments by Mrs Pittermann – unfortunately, she is not here. We certainly do not want to startle any fears today, we are dealing with inevitable demands whose realization has long been in place. The popular desire has proved it. The genetic engineering people's desire has been beaten. 1.2 million citizens have signed. Mr Leiner! This is truly a proud success that our responsible politicians are already enjoying to the highest extent, as can be read in the print media. According to our Federal Chancellor, there is now a need for action. Where is it, if not here?- Oh, my God! Where should action be taken if not in Parliament, Mr Leiner? [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Leiner.]] We can discuss these points in the Committee. Of course you should also speak, but we also want to be able to present our argument. We must first have the opportunity to do so. Ladies and gentlemen! I seriously wonder why a popular desire must be started. In order to regulate the difficult area of the application of genetic engineering in agriculture and medicine, the genetic engineering law was already passed in the High House in 1995. In the run-up – and now you take good note, Mr Leiner – this decision dealt with this question by a committee of inquiry and presented the technological impact assessment on the example of genetic technology as a particularly sensitive point. My colleague Barmüller has already carried it out and referred to his request since 22. In May 1996, in other words, for almost a year, the House has been in the House and has been assigned to the Committee on Justice. I can make a request on 23 March. Mr Leiner. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his excellent report. It also honors Mrs Prammer that in the short period of her ministerial activity she has recognized that labelling is a priority. However, the past omissions do not justify these findings, because the 1994 report of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry points out that this has also been called for in the decision-making of the genetic engineering law of all parliamentary groups – I can refer to the text once again –: "The possibility for the consumer to be aware of or to be able to choose a product produced or modified by means of genetic engineering or processes when buying, must be ensured by a clear, clear and understandable label." - Quote. Ladies and gentlemen! This was explained in 1994. Today we write the year 1997. A popular desire has been completed this week, and without wishing to narrow down genetic engineering people's desire, I note that the omissions which once again appear quite clearly are not apologies or apologies for justification. The requests of the Liberals as well as the other opposition parties have long been here in the house. These applications have been and will be ignored. That is why we call for the Committee on Justice to have a deadline of up to 14. May – a short deadline – will be set to amend the Genetic Engineering Act 1994. I also call on Mrs. Dr. Fekter – unfortunately she is not here – to finally carry out her duties as chairman of the Committee on Justice.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e9221	Mrs Petrovic. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e9242	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The Greens will, of course, agree to this deadline request from the Liberal Forum. I am very surprised at what has been done by the government parties here and today under the title of a deadline debate by the speaker and the speaker. In setting deadlines, it is not at all a question of whether the content of the Liberals' request is good or bad, whether it is a technical obstacle, or whether the reference in the paragraph is soundly correct or wrong. [[Abg. Dr. Leiner: It is already about the concrete request!]] It is not a matter of this subject matter, but of the question when we are at last seriously debating opposition applications in the field of genetic engineering in this House. [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] I already regard this very broad scope for the members of the government as a prejudice within the framework of a deadline, which will also take the opposition as an example when we are concerned with the content of a deadline. This is just a note. In terms of genetic engineering and in terms of this application, you will carry out your own argumentation ad absurdum if only a request concerning a modification of the genetic engineering law 1994 is considered. Now we are discussing this request or whether it should be debated in the Committee on Budgets until a certain date; that is the question now. I still remember very well the genetic engineering law 1994. Mr Bartenstein has personally promised us that the environmental impact assessment must also be applied to genetic installations. There were repeated statements from the government in which the question of liability was expressed. Mr Leiner! Mrs Pittermann! These plants are in production. There are private individuals who profit from it. But if something happens – not precisely through evil intent or gross negligence, which I do not want to hope – then we all carry it. That is, the benefit is privatized, the risk is socialized. You decided that three years ago. The debate on the side of the medal, namely a strict, indebted liability, still has time. You don't even want to do that until the 14th century. May be seriously discussed. I ask you: What do you want? Are you talking about it for a long time? There is a final draft of the Ministry of Justice, your Minister of Justice, which is a draft of the decision-making process. The only reason why you do not agree with this deadline is that you do not actually want a regulation on genetic engineering that benefits the interests of the population. In this context, what is to be kept from the statements of members of the government, by the Chancellor himself, when he said in view of the more than 1.2 million signatures: Now there is a rapid need for action! Now something has to happen quickly! The people in Austria must be taken seriously!, is clear. Not even Members of this House, representatives of the people, are taken seriously, with their legitimate wishes, that such a request should be decided after a year. Ladies and gentlemen! You will not be here by us – unfortunately we cannot – but you will be held responsible by the Austrian population, by the many people who are interested in genetic engineering and a better regulation, for this your behaviour in the House!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e9289	Ladies and gentlemen! No further words are available. I declare the debate closed. We shall come to the vote. - I ask you to take the seats. We shall vote on the request from the Justice Committee to report to Parliament 210/A concerning genetic engineering for a period of 14 months. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this deadline request for Barmüller to give a sign of approval. [[Abg. Dr. Schwimmer: Four Liberals are present!]] – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. The next item is the short debate on the request by Mr Scheibner, the Committee on Foreign Affairs for reporting on the request for membership of Austria to NATO, for a deadline of up to 4 years. In July 1997, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to turnover taxes. Here again, the vote on the request for a deadline will be taken immediately after the end of the debate which is now taking place. We are now going into the debate. The rules are the same as in the previous request: no speaker more than 5 minutes, first speaker 10 minutes. The first speaker is Mr Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e9343	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! This proposal, which we want to help with a time limit for discussion, is also a proposal which has been in committee for more than a year and is waiting for the appropriate discussion. We have already found him on the agenda together with the neutrality people's desire, but at that time we wanted to have a comprehensive debate on this request for accession negotiations to NATO. At the time, however, only the alternative had been given to us either the allocation of this proposal to a subcommittee, namely the same subcommittee, which was also set up to deal with popular desire, or to take note of a delay. We have opted for the second variant, because we have seen – and then it has come about – that this subcommittee would only consist of a very short hearing. In fact, there has been no proper accompanying committee advice on the ever-increasing debate on security policy. This debate on security policy is also very interesting. It is always run in the so-called acid cucumber period, when politics comes to rest, such as in summer, in the Christmas season, now to Easter again. There are some people who believe that they can get into the media. This security policy is being built up once again by some government group. Then it comes to the already known Hickhack – they say yes, the others say no. It is believed that a government party is fighting an opposition party, and not that everyone is drawing a line and organizing the change in our country accordingly. Finally, rest returns to the government house. Other confusion remains in the population as to how it should continue; there is also a further loss of reputation in the international community of states. The fact that we have not made any progress in this regard is also reflected in the corresponding news reports. Although something is often said about the same people in the week after that, there is hope that we will finally move in the right direction, given the newspapers. In January, for example, Ms Ferrero, Secretary of State, said that NATO should be replaced by neutrality. The Minister of Defence said that 1997 will be a key year for Europe's security policy and NATO will be European and we should participate in it. The Foreign Minister – he is in charge of our foreign policy anyway – also says, he urges: He wanted to start negotiations with NATO in 1998, and the decision to join NATO would like to be taken by the Foreign Minister in 1997. - As far as the ÖVP. It is interesting that there seems to have been a contemplative process in the SPÖ. Not only does Mr Cap – he never participates in such debates in the National Council – have a clear line on this issue – but also Mr. Ex-Bundeskanzler Vrannitzky suddenly says – since he is no longer in the corset of the government office and apparently no longer has the obligations to his own group: NATO "New" is also interesting for us. It seems that this was an intermediate performance for his new function as Albania coordinator. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Headmaster.]] You are already exposed to the pressure of your colleagues from Germany. The spokesperson of the SPD and former president of the NATO General Assembly, Vogt, says that he does not understand at all why the SPÖ hesitates for so long with a clear decision on the orientation of security policy. Ladies and gentlemen! According to newspapers, there is a strip of hope on the horizon, but in truth the government is sitting and the two clubmen are sitting here, and there is nothing at all about the important issue of future Austrian security policy. There is nothing going on, the Austrian Parliament is not involved, and there are no negotiations in the committees. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Headmaster.]] However, Mr Koppler, the Austrian federal army is being sent to Albania for this purpose, for which all these reservations suddenly do not apply and where NATO states such as Germany and other states stand out for good reason. [[Complaints with the liberals]] Although there are no official decisions at all in the OSCE and in NATO to carry out such a commitment, we are – apparently again on the pressure of Mr Vranitzky, because he wants to make himself a good name among these institutions – and suddenly again model students, although we know very well that the money and infrastructure for such operations are not available and that we have not even created the legal framework for this. Ladies and gentlemen! It would be important for a responsible government to first make the principle of how our security policy will continue. If we take part in an alliance with all rights and obligations, we must also put in place the legal and infrastructure measures and create the appropriate framework conditions. You should organize this in advance before sending our soldiers to such an adventure! It is said again and again that we still have to wait and watch how the security debate develops. But the schedule, the way and the direction are perfectly clear, you know as well as we do! It is quite clear that the European Union will not make decisive progress in the common foreign and security policy, but that NATO will continue to be the only security instrument to give concrete security guarantees to European states and that NATO will be transformed from a purely military pact into a security and peace instrument. Not all steps have yet been taken. But why, ladies and gentlemen, instead of always setting accession conditions, do you not rather say: Well, the direction is right, so as a small country in the heart of Europe, we will join as quickly as possible with all the rights and obligations so that we can bring Austria's concerns into this discussion? You cannot really believe that in the opinion of Mr Kostelka or of other socialist, social-democratic ideologists, the whole of the state community will judge itself! It is about the future of European security policy, and this is about the future of Austrian security policy. Ladies and gentlemen! I do not understand why we do not recognize this opportunity, the historic opportunity, that for the first time in the history of Europe, there is the opportunity to establish a permanent security and peace system for Europe starting with the existing structures. There is a chance that the democratisation processes in the former Eastern Bloc States will be irreversibly made. This would be a viable basis for genuine European agreement, contrary to what the European Union is in store for us. Mr Kostelka! They are the spearheads of those who insist on a neutrality that no one can say about what the future security benefits will be. In my opinion, all these people of the population are going to do something wrong. They will also have to bear the responsibility if, in future, Austria does not have the security guarantees that would be possible if we were involved in these integration processes. If we were to accept our proposal for a deadline for July 1997, the Committee would be forced to start this discussion at last. This would allow us to conclude the Committee's deliberations before the summer and then set the course for Parliament to finally decide on the direction in which Austrian security policy will move. Then we could make our application for membership in the autumn. They know that the train will have left for Austria by the end of 1997. In 1998, only the applications for membership of the former Eastern Bloc States in the European Parliaments, probably four or three, will be dealt with and ratified, and in 1999 there will be these recordings. If we do not decide now if we do not make the principle decision to make a clear application for membership by autumn 1997, then the train has left for us. I hope that in this country we will finally take the ideological suffrages, that we will finally find the Courage here for an open and honest discussion, the courage for a discourse with the population, and that we will be informed objectively so that we can quickly draw up clear guidelines for the future direction of security policy in the sense of Austria. This proposal for a deadline would be a first step towards making these changes in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which is very important to me as a Member of Parliament, and therefore very soon to be taken in Parliament.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e9436	The speaking times in this debate are 5 minutes from now on. MEPs are the next speaker. Please, Mr Schieder.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e9460	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I also asked myself why the liberal club would like to achieve with the resolution that we should go over to NATO. [[Abg. Young: We've been discussing for years!]] Mr Scheibner has now stated on the grounds that, as it were, the train has already almost left, that there is something like a gateway to NATO, which opens only at certain times and for certain countries. This may be true of Easter enlargement. But you yourself know, Mr Scheibner, that this certainly does not apply to countries such as Sweden or Austria. This has been confirmed several times by leading representatives to you and us. My suspicion is: This is more about positioning, as you know that the Government Convention clearly states how and when – in autumn and spring next year – this question will be dealt with. It also says that all further options will be seriously discussed, and that is not said with a cross-sectional finger, but seriously, from both sides. I suspect that you want to position yourself quickly and win a race among those who hope that the story will once call it a pioneer. [[Abg. Scheibner: We've been there for a long time!]] I admit, my colleague, I am not a cavalry expert. But I doubt that someone who is either going through the horse or who is galloping away speedily and uncontrolled is called a pioneer in the professional language. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We need a serious debate in which all the crucial foundations are on the table. We need to know what national issues are being dealt with, and we need to know how high the costs of NATO accession are. This, as you know, will not only be the member contribution to the common budget of the Alliance and the one-time payment by which we will nominately co-owners of the facilities, but also the compatibility of the NATO telecommunications system, the integration of the air monitoring system, the link between data processing and the NATO system and aviation security measures with the IFF system, arms systems connection et cetera. This information, including that on the adapting form of organisation of the army, must be on the table before the decision is taken. But above all, it is important to choose the right time in this dynamic process. [[Abg. Young: This will depend on it!]] I agree that I agree with many of the analyses in your request. But you do not say why it must be so fast. [[Abg. Scheibner: Rasch? Six years we've lost!]] Much more reasonable are the discussions on the line of the government. If one knows what the outcome of the EU Government Conference is, what the NATO Summit has done, and how the agreement with Russia has been finalized, then a much better time will be to evaluate everything in this dynamic process and make the decision. Ladies and gentlemen! The application does not at all address the tension between NATO accession and neutrality. He pretends there's no neutrality anymore. [[Abg. Boy: You'll take her off tomorrow!]] They probably do not know that neutrality is constitutional and international. Of course, a debate on this is permitted, even if we do not think the time is appropriate now. But there is no doubt that membership of NATO, as it stands today, is not compatible with the neutrality and neutrality law. I'm not talking about the station. This would be regulated in its own Treaty, and we would certainly find a suitable solution for that. I do not mean the question of the stationing of nuclear weapons, because these are air- or sea-based, and no one will ask for such a thing from us. But I do speak of what is happening to neutrality, even in its reduction on the inner core: This is Article 5 in conjunction with Article 6 of the NATO Treaty, namely the obligation to provide assistance in the sense of self-defence under Article 51 of the United Nations Statute, i.e. measures before a decision of the Security Council.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e9548	I'm asking for the shot!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e9563	NATO accession under the current military pact conditions of NATO is incompatible with neutrality. That's why we don't want to head over to NATO. We therefore do not agree with this request and want to have a reasonable debate at the right time.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e9596	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Khol. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e9617	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Austrian security, the security of the population of Austria is our top concern. Without security and peace in the country, without security and peace in Europe, the prosperity of Europe and our prosperity are on our feet. A new system of peace is emerging in Europe. Whether we will participate depends on what it will look like. We don't want to act like "the wild man on his maschin" singing about the tormenter of his time: I do not know where I am going, but I am there faster for that, but we want to know first what the European peace order will look like. NATO is in a complete transformation. If NATO took place on 27 May. An important decision-making requirement has been clarified in May, as planned, in the field of security with the Russian Federation. If NATO has decided at its Madrid Summit in July of this year – after the deadline for your appointment – which our neighbours will be invited to join, whether it will be neutral countries such as Sweden, Finland or Austria, if we know whether Slovenia, Hungary, Poland and the Czech Republic will become NATO members and if we know whether and when NATO will have a new division of work with the European Union, then the conditions will be clear for us. [[Abg. Scheibner: Have you been invited for a long time!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: We are not the pioneers, but the pursuit!]] Such a new European peace order would certainly be a better guarantee of security, peace and prosperity for our Austrian people than what we currently have. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We should therefore wait for NATO's decisions in July. We should take part in the decisions of the European Union as a member country when it will decide at a summit in Amsterdam on the future role of the Western European Union. [[Abg. Young: As an outsider we can't co-shape!]] We should also see what will become of the Organization on Cooperation and Security in Europe. After that, we will have the options available, and then we will be able to advise in this House in peace and decide in the best sense for our people. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! I don't know what I'm supposed to think of your deadline request. I do not wish to question the objective you are pursuing with your security policy. [[Abg. Jung: (a sheet of paper in height) Bowl: Decisions in 1997!]] But I remember a similar attitude when it came to membership of the European Union. They were after us the first to say: Quickly, in 1993 or 1994, to the European Union! [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] When we presented to Parliament a report on the options and did just as we now intend, you were the ones who were against them in the referendum. Therefore, all those who hope in Austria for membership of the new European Peace Order and a new NATO should not rely on you, because You will fall back when it comes to the decision! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I don't understand another thing either. We want to decide in Parliament and in government to send 120 men to guard a headquarters of a peacekeeping mission in Albania for property protection. [[Abg. Young: But not within NATO!]] But now exactly the party, which cannot go fast enough, says to enter a military alliance as it is today: We don't want to go with that! [[Abg. Young: Because it's not a NATO deployment!]] You will not be able to explain this to anyone, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[15:48]] Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e9753	Before I give the floor to the next speaker, I declare that a letter from the Federal Chancellor's Office has been received, in which the following statement is made on a resolution by the President of the Federal Republic of Germany: For the duration of the prevention of the Federal Minister for Labour, Health and Social Affairs Eleonora Hostasch for the remainder of the 16th century. The Federal Minister for Justice Dr. Michalek will be entrusted with the representation on April. It shall be requested to take note of the matter. The next speaker is Mr Dr. Haider. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e9789	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! It is touching when the clubman of the Austrian People's Party accuses the liberals that they fall by, even though he himself is one of the leading representatives of the acrobatics with which one can still fall by lying, as his party has proved to us in many areas. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I put this in the position that Dr. Khol, standing here at the speaker's desk, took. [[Abg. May. Mühlbachler: He was very good!]] Shortly after he had become a clubman, he spoke of neutrality in the taboo of history and the European common defence system as having the future. – Today he speaks quite differently. Get your ÖVP into the tabnacle and save the Austrians this zigzag course! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! A commentator of the Austrian daily "Salzburger Nachrichten" wrote today: "Austria's security policy has for some time changed between neutrality and solidarity. Now she tends to be absurd." - That's the case! It tends to be absurd. Khol is blocking neutrality in the taboo, but at the same time does not want a European defence system. Mr President Fischer from the SPÖ is going to Russia and in the Russian Duma is giving a flaming speech against NATO accession and the neutrality of Austria. Mr. Cap is in interviews for the neutrality of Austria. The foreign-political spokesperson says: The NATO accession is not supposed to go as quickly as possible, but it will come sometime, we are approaching, we are robbing there, so to speak. – Hardly Vranitzky is without posts and needs an office, the neutrality is carried to graves in the morning to be decided sending law so that he can make use of Albania! – Ladies and gentlemen! That's your position! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] What will prevent you from making a clear decision on a European security alliance if you send Austrian soldiers for use in a common defence system on any appropriate and inappropriate occasion? Or do you think that's something else you're doing in Albania? [[Abg. May. Mühlbachler: We have the overall responsibility for Europe!]] Yes, responsibility for Europe. Albania also belongs to Europe, now it sends the Vranckky down, and that is why the Austrian soldiers have to go too. [[Abg. May. Mühlbachler: What do you want with Albania?- Oh, my God!]] – colleague, stay cool! But at the same time, it should be remembered that 5 percent of the national defence budget is already spent on such operations. It's more reasonable to go here and say, We're restructuring around! What are you afraid of? Ask the Austrian population! Give her the possibility of a referendum! Say: NATO accession is called professional army, called fundamental renewal of defense. You will certainly get a solid majority for this. But this zigzag course you're going to, of course, we can... [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You're the rabbit, we're the hedgehog, we've been here for a long time! EU-traffickers!]] Mr Commissioner, Easter has been over for too long, so that you can continue your zigzag course like a rabbit! [[Abg. May. Mühlbachler: Not even a rabbit can run as zigzag as you do!]] They have so far remained guilty of a credible line of European policy to the Austrians. I only refer to the question of preparation for the euro. Even your red and black scientists let you sign that if they get money from the EU, they can only talk positively about the euro! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: EU crashers!]] All names are listed on the list that I have been given: Professor Breuss of the Research Institute for European Questions, Josef Christl von der Creditanstalt, Erhard Fürst von der Industrielenvereinigung, Heinz handler of the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs, Dr. Henkel of the Austrian Chamber of Commerce, Marianne Kager of the Bank Austria, Roland Mittendorfer of the Austrian Chamber of Commerce, Karl Obernosterer von der Creditanstalt, Martin Oppitz of the Research Institute for European Questions, Bruno Rossmann of the Chamber for Workers and Employees, Mr. Andreas Wörgotter of the Institute for Higher Studies, Dr. Gustav Raab, the political and project manager of the Federal Government for the Euro. [[Abg. May. Mühlbachler: What about them?]] In the same way, you want to bring people to light in defence policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Mühlbachler: Are we talking about NATO or the euro? Theme missing!]] Dr. Khol! You prove that you are not concerned with appropriate information and decision, but you want to manipulate the Austrians again: With regard to euro, you manipulate with regard to defence policy you manipulate!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e9935	Please note the speaking time!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e9950	A government that does not tell the Austrians the truth must be forced by deadlines to finally confess color.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e9989	Next speaker is Deputy Moser.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e10019	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speakers have shown how urgently a security debate is necessary in this country. I really regret that this urgent debate on security policy is, unfortunately, always being hindered by the government parties. In order not to have to discuss the future prospects of Austrian security policy. It is now a fact, ladies and gentlemen, that a request was made in March 1996 that this House should discuss the question of Austria's accession to NATO. However, this request has not been discussed and debated so far. To date, we have not had the opportunity to talk about it in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. That is why I think it is necessary, legitimate and correct that a deadline proposal be made here. We will therefore support this deadline request accordingly. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on representatives of the Freemans.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that Austria has to change its security policy approach is obvious. Because one thing is clear: Neutrality has lost its function, and the future can no longer be an autonomously formulated neutrality, an autonomously formulated security policy, but the future can only lie in a full integration of Austria within the framework of a European security system, a European security architecture. From my point of view, this European security architecture is clearly on the table. Mr Khol! If you come here and say, We don't know what that looks like, then you really say that against better knowledge. Because you know just as we do, what role... [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Do you know the purpose of the WEU?]] Mr Khol! You know just as we do what role the OSCE will play in the future. You know exactly what role NATO has as a transatlantic alliance. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: No, we don't know either!]] I ask you to read the Berlin decisions, in which a Europeanisation of NATO has been decided quite clearly and clearly and in which it is clearly defined in the direction of NATO. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: This is a programme and not a decision! The decision will be made this year in Madrid!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: This is a programme and not a decision!]] Mr Khol, yes! [[Abg. Arbitrators: This has not yet become binding! This is a resolution of intent! This has not become part of the contract!]] Mr. Schieder! They know that, if such a declaration of intent exists, all further assessments, any further planning of this security alliance will be made on the basis of this declaration of intent and that the final decision will be taken at the NATO Summit in Madrid. Ladies and gentlemen! That's a fact. Mr Khol! I keep it from the process as well... [[Abg. Arbitrators: You learn in the General Staff Course that the decisions must come first!]] You can talk so much in between...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e10133	I call Mr Moser.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e10148	It does not make sense to wait for the WEU to make a decision until NATO has made a decision. I think it would be the right way in the interests of the security of this country to bring in our security interests. But we can only bring them in if we are members of these security communities, and this is now the Western European Union or NATO, Mr Khol. You know that we have had the opportunity to become a member of the Western European Union since the time of Austria's membership in the European Union. You know very well that the actual security policy decisions in Europe fall within the framework of NATO, that NATO is a transatlantic security cooperation between Europe and the North American continent. You know exactly that security in Europe is not possible without the involvement of the United States, without security cooperation with Russia. That's the NATO, and all this is a fact. NATO is now the core area of European security architecture, and I therefore believe that we should also take a clear position in this regard. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] It is therefore not useful and does not make sense to wait until we are invited. We do not need to be invited, but it is to be expected that at the NATO Summit in Madrid an invitation will be...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e10184	Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e10199	Then we also need to know clearly what the prospects are for our future security policy. To that end, we need a comprehensive discussion in this country. We should have this discussion...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e10223	But now the speaking time is over, Mr President. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] The last speaker on this debate is Mrs Kammerlander.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e10256	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. We can see how exciting such debates are, because Mr Khol cannot stop discussing at all, but he has never actually started. If If you had started sometime, you would have dealt with and discussed various applications in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, just as it actually belonged to a parliamentary framework, but not in 5 minutes during a debate on deadlines. That's the dilemma! As you know, I do not at all share the views of the applicants and the Green Group. We think it is extremely shortsighted to believe that the challenges in Europe can only be answered with a military alliance. I think it is completely missing and wrong to believe that the transformation processes in the various Eastern European countries can be supported by this discussion and debate, whether we are joining NATO and when the others join NATO. I think it is shortsighted or wrong to paint dangers here on the wall, of which I still do not know exactly what it is, in fact, that causes you to believe that we must join a military alliance. But this debate and discussion can never be held, except always in such short-term debates. To the SPÖ it is said that their course is extremely doubtful. It was only recently that Klubobmann Kostelka announced, on the occasion of the party's day, that he obviously had to calm down his own clientele, that the decision on NATO accession would not be taken now, but only after the next National Council election. – From what intuition or from which motivation you said that, it is not clear to me, because you do not save anything with it! In one case, I would like to thank all the speakers who have spoken in this debate: The decisions at European level or some decisions, namely pre-decisions, at European level are taken this year! What you wanted to do with this is unclear. Obviously, you believed that you could calm down another spectrum in your own party landscape. There are in your party those who say that we should join NATO, there are those who say we should remain neutral, and there are those who dream that the duty to assist in the NATO Treaty will once fall away and that we could then join NATO as a neutral state. And there are you, Mr Klubobmann Kostelka, who at all says that this question is not for discussion, and when, only after the next election. To the ÖVP: Mr. Klubobmann Khol! If you listen, you might think you ate a package of cream before you went to the speaker's desk. How else can you argue here and say that we must wait until we see what is happening if you know that your own members of the government are going to join NATO on every occasion and say quite clearly what they want here. That's why I'm wondering who to wait here. You have clearly expressed this view in your group, otherwise you would sometimes object to your own members of the government. If you say we should wait for what the others are doing, then I have to tell you exactly that's drawing Your conservative foreign policy assumes that you are always waiting for what the others are doing to go after them and do exactly what the others told you to do. I think it is urgently necessary to discuss what the conditions for a common foreign and security policy in Europe look like and what options we have. In our opinion, it is urgently necessary to discuss the neutral status of Austria, which is very likely to continue to play an important role in Europe. I am not in the opinion of the applicants at all. This also shows the attitude of Finland and Sweden, which are carefully considering and keeping this option open. Even in political conflict cases, as now in Albania, it would show how a neutral state could act if it wanted to. In one case, I give the right to those who apply for the deadline: It's a scandal as you deal with the opposition's requests. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You leave the applications in the drawer for a year because you just don't want to decide! So you vote against, you vote against the FPÖ's request and then in half a year explain why you are for NATO, why you are in half a year for NATO and why you are not now. Do it! But to believe you can put your head in the sand and don't treat the applications, that's really wrong.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e10316	The debate on the proposal for a deadline has ended. We shall come to the vote. We shall vote on the request of Mr Scheibner, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, to report to the Council on Amendment 152/A (E) concerning NATO accession, a period of time until 4. In July 1997, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States I should like to ask that those ladies and gentlemen who vote in favour of this deadline proposal give a sign. – This is the minority. The deadline application is therefore rejected. The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e10355	This will allow us to resume the negotiations on item 4 of the agenda. We continue in the speaker list. The next speaker is Mr Barmüller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e10383	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! As the report by the Committee on Health on the Government template again concerns 127 of the supplements, i.e. the money laundering agreement, one thing has been clarified: The title is, of course, shortened. It is not about an agreement on money laundering, but about how individual national rules can be aligned in order to achieve better control in the field of money laundering, namely money laundering as a whole, as it should be the objective of this Treaty. The identification, confiscation and collection of delicately acquired assets should be approximated. Ladies and gentlemen! That's a sensible undertaking. At the end of the previous year, i.e. at the end of 1996, there have been discussions and decision-making here in the Committee on Justice, how to deal with this matter and how Austria can contribute to a better fight against money laundering. It is therefore not understandable what was said by the first speaker here in the first place that there is no more than a piece of work being done. It is clear that there are measures within both Austria and the international rules which implement them. That must be done! Whoever is always opposed to the fact that there is apparently too little action in the field of crime control, should not close down if, at last, a concrete proposal is on the table, which wants to do exactly that, namely that there is a better international vote. I should also like to point out that all forms of crime are included in this paper, but in particular those who are rejecting significant illegal profits. In particular, we are talking about illegal drug trafficking, arms trafficking, nuclear trafficking, terrorism and also the need to stop trafficking in children or women. I do not understand why Mr Firlinger believes that this is a piecework. For him, it is apparently piecework that we want to work more efficiently in the international field because of these measures. If this is a piece of work, ladies and gentlemen, then I do not understand how to stand here at the speaker's desk and say we have to do more in the area! Perhaps Mr Firlinger is still considering giving his approval to this proposal. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: We're not in government!]] It is not about, Mr Graf, whether or not someone is in the government, but about the fact that we are dealing with good proposals – and this is what we demand from the government. If you think, Mr Graf, that you have to act differently in plenary than in committee, then you have to explain it separately, because the Committee has agreed without debate on the part of the liberals of this proposal as a whole, without amendments and others. Deputies! If, on the one hand, you agree without debate in the committee, because you think it is correct, on the other hand, because it is perhaps media-opportunistic, without real reason for a change of mind, then, I believe, it will not increase your credibility. However, it will not prevent the decision-making of this proposal and the appropriate measures contained therein. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e10420	The next speaker is Mr Deputies Van der Bellen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e10442	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make a few comments on the content of the Convention on Money laundering and so on and on to the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Content: The Convention on money laundering and the investigation, confiscation and recovery of proceeds from criminal offences is in order and without question the Greens agree. It is a progress towards the fight against international crime, in particular organised crime. I would, however, like to draw your attention to Article 4. Here's what it says: "Each Party shall take the necessary legislative and other measures to give its courts or other competent authorities the power to make bank, financial or business documents available or seized. A Contracting Party may not refuse, with reference to banking secrecy, to grant effect to the provisions of this Article." – That is paragraph 1 of Article 4. The explanations on the government template refer to Article 4: "However, Abs. 1 In all, it is understood that the Convention is of course presupposed that credit and financial institutions know the identity of their customers." [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You understood!]] This is, I suppose, a statement by the Ministry of Justice, carefully, politely and tactfully formulated. It is the abolition of the anonymity which is addressed here. A year earlier, the Ministry of Justice was much clearer, namely in the opinion on the banking law Novelle, which was discussed at the time, which was then decided. At that time, among other things, there were opinions from the Bar Association, from the Stock Forum – that is, the Austrian Association of Stock issuers and Investors – by the Industrial Association and precisely by the Federal Ministry of Justice. All expressed a critical view of maintaining anonymity. The Ministry of Justice drew attention to the fact that, in the context of anonymity, it is not only about money laundering, but also about other cases in civil and criminal matters, such as disputes arising in the course of latentries – the unclearness to which the Savings Book has now heard – in disputes in divorce cases, in the context of maintenance obligations and the like. The Ministry of Justice summarizes – I read this briefly to you –: From these considerations, therefore, the Federal Ministry of Justice is also voting independently of the European Union's money laundering directive, which is addressed in the cover-up page, in order to eliminate the possibility of anonymous accounts management. In all its advantages to investors and the credit industry, this institution also has disadvantages which cannot be neglected. In the field of justice, in particular, the problems of inheritance law and family law, the related non-relevant additional burden on the courts and the obstacles to the prosecution and combating of criminal acts are to be mentioned here. I assume that the Ministry of Justice has not changed its opinion in the meantime. The agreement is, of course, incomplete in this respect. The Greens have said from the outset that the anonymity of savings, as much as the heart of the Austrians also depends on not being permanent. This should be prevented in good time, for example by an intensification of banking secrecy. The Federal Government, on the other hand, has the peculiar policy of delegating all unpleasant decisions to Brussels for it and of making it happen to a process before the ECJ. This process will probably lose it, and a campaign will then come to our house to improve the EU's popularity with the Austrians. We have already experienced this many times. That doesn't make any sense! It cannot be expected that, if one is too weak to take measures that are properly recognized, it will rather be deported to Brussels, the identification with the EU will be improved in Austria. This cannot be intercepted by any campaigns. – So much to Article 4 and anonymity. The Committee on Health has been involved in this matter. That's interesting! The reason for this was, as far as I could understand, that many things in money laundering have to do with health issues, namely when illegal money comes out of the drug business. Mr Barmüller has already pointed out that, of course, illegal funds come from the arms trade, from the trafficking of women or from which sources. Let us assume, however, that they actually originate essentially from drug trafficking. Now I know people who regularly have health complaints when filling out their income tax declaration. [[Abg. Dr Graf: They come to the Committee on Budgets!]] You've got fear sweats, heart flutters. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Depressions!]] The depression will come later, it will only come when it comes to the notice. If they get the notice, either depression or anger comes, increased blood pressure – healthly distressing symptoms. After the logic of the procedure discussed before, I will see the next novel in the Income Tax Act in peace, because it will not affect me in the Financial Committee because it is assigned to the Health Committee. This could become one of Parliament's most important committees. You have to consider whether this is planned or not. [[Abg. Dr Graf: The Waffengesetzelle then enters the Agriculture Committee because there are so many hunters!]] We've already experienced all of this. It is basically the second case. A similar case occurred shortly before Christmas when the partial privatisation of Bank Austria was passed under a tax-change law. At that time I wondered why the federal government suddenly transferred its shares to the Bank Austria of Post-Holding overnight, and that in the context of a tax-change law. No one recognized the reason at the time, nor the ÖVP. The background, of course, was that the SPÖ, as it were, prepared the terrain for the sale of the credit institution to Bank Austria at the last second. The ÖVP also did not understand this at the time and expressly approved the transaction in the last second. I would like to mention this in detail, because I do not want that to happen. I am sure that the colleagues of the Committee on Health will not misunderstand me. It is by no means a question of reducing their legitimate employment, but a matter such as that belongs either to the Committee on the Interior or, if financial matters outweigh, to the Committee on Finance. It may also belong to the Committee on Justice, but it belongs to the Committee on Health. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e10521	The next speaker is Mr Kiss. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e10543	Mr President. High house! I give to the colleague Van der Bellen right. I, too, have mounted in the party that this matter is referred to the plenary via the Committee on Health. In my opinion, it is a classical matter of the Committee on Finance and the Interior. That is why I agree with what you said, Mr Van der Bellen. For this reason, I am speaking as EIA's security spokesperson in the framework of a presentation of the Health Committee on money laundering. As an extremely well-founded analysis of organised crime in the European Union, i.e. in the 15 Member States, I have selected this EU report and I would like to quote two passages concerning money laundering. Ladies and gentlemen! The fact is that organized crime – and this is undisputed, no one in the House has argued otherwise – is not an abstract threat, but a very, very concrete danger that we are all aware of. What I do not understand, Mr Firlinger, and with that I am beating in the same notch as Mr Barmüller, is that the Freedom Party refuses to approve of this package, especially the Freedom Party, which is always instigating when it comes to the introduction of the new arrest methods. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: It's all the law anyway!]] It is also one of the instruments that we need, which we must give to justice, the executive, the financial authorities at national and international level, in order to do exactly what we all want together Not a more organized crime, but a classic, strategic, tactical fight. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Stand in EU law!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Not the financial authorities! Let the courts decide!]] I just don't understand, Mr Firlinger! I just don't understand! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] On the other hand, I am pleased that Greens and Liberals, who are so opposed to the introduction of the new arrest methods, say yes to this presentation in this particular case, in other words: Wrong world, wrong time! At any rate, thanks to the Greens and Liberals who have recognised the need for these measures to take a step against money laundering within the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen! I quote from page 75 of the report of the European Union, an analysis of organised crime – you know, there are currently at least 34 groups, syndicates, organisations operating throughout Europe within this organised crime –: The fact that a total of 34 groups often use different methods shows how complex the phenomenon of money laundering is. 13 Groups used financing channels abroad, 21 groups invested in legal companies, 17 in real estate, 15 in mobile assets, and 7 foreign exchange transactions used to wash their earnings. That's worrying enough. But the fact that we do not have to draw conclusions from the general European situation alone shows that the case, from the Austrian point of view on the EDOK, is about power. Lesjak, in this report. I quote again to the chapter on money laundering, in Austria, the following from this EU report: [[Abg. May. Barmüller: You should read this exactly!]] Austria is a transit country for money laundering. Groups from the Community of Independent States and the Camorra play a major role in this. proceeds from crimes committed abroad shall be invested in respect of their transfer. In 1995, some 310 communications concerning a total value of 1,440 million schilling were sent by the banks. The seizures were estimated at 373 million schillings. That says – so that we can get an idea of what it is all about and what sizes it is about – in the Austrian report on organised crime. We still have to admit that this is only the beginning of what is happening to us in terms of organized crime. We parliamentarians, in particular we from the ÖVP, are going that concrete way, for which we are always arguing, very consistently, and I say it again and again in this room: The EIA is in favour of giving the executive the opportunities necessary to combat the organised crime in Austria, which is also active at European level. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is not the case that the criminals travel through the country with the Porsche, but our executive officers. Let us do everything we can to ensure equal opportunities!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e10632	The next speaker is Mr Jakob Auer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e10656	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I have a so-called model savings book, a transporter's savings book, and I would like to ask colleagues Firlinger, who today have raised the accusation that the Austrian government is too little concerned about the true information regarding the euro and the banking law and that it does not say the truth in anonymity, whether, as he has claimed, it can carry out a transaction with this transporter savings book. He is a dreamer, because with such a transporter savings book you can only deposit cash and receive cash something paid out, no more and no less. If he says something else, he's a dreamer! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: That's him too!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I admit to him that he doesn't believe me. But there is an opinion by a well-reserved constitutional lawyer, Mr. Universitätsprofessor Dr. Markus Achatz, who has produced an opinion on the compatibility of the anonymity of Austrian transporter savings books with the money laundering directive. If, on the ground that money laundering is to be promoted, the so-called 'transferer's savings book is to be abolished, then the money must be abolished as well! Ladies and gentlemen! In the so-called normal saving book, identification is necessary – but only with this. This could be separated in any currency and at any rate. This would allow transactions such as transfers, credits and so on to be carried out without the presentation of the book. In order to prevent this and comply with the money laundering directive, the Austrian banks have committed themselves with the so-called obligation to take care that, in transactions of more than ECU 15 000 or, as is now said, Euro or 200 000 S, the identification of the holder is mandatory. The aim of the EU directive on the prevention of money laundering is to identify any bank customer who takes up a permanent business relationship with the bank – that is, a savings account within the meaning of a normal savings book, Mr. Firlinger, or opens another account or securities account. Deposits and disbursements on anonymous transfers savings books in cash are used to avoid the need to keep cash amounts at home for security reasons. And since anonymous delivery savings books can only be paid in and out of cash, money laundering should be fought where other currencies are exchanged in Schilling. But the transfer of schilling amounts to other currencies has nothing to do with the transporter savings book. In the so-called due diligence declaration, to which the Austrian banks have committed themselves, it is necessary to examine whether someone is a foreign currency. The identification of nationals is also required if the amount of the savings is not to be reconciled with the income and assets of the payer. We should not pretend that there is only the possibility of anonymous savings books or anonymous transactions in Austria. In the Federal Republic of Germany, there is the possibility of carrying out anonymous table transactions, i.e. securities sales on the switch, up to a value of DM 20,000. In Italy, transactions under 130 000 S are anonymous and not subject to authorisation – in France as well. In Belgium, there are bank bonds that can be purchased for cash. The anonymous transporter savings book is not suitable for money laundering purposes. That's why we defend the anonymity so violently. We note that Austria has done far more with this conclusion, with this provision of law and this agreement than the European Union is demanding in this area. We will definitely defend the anonymity of the Austrian transporter savings books on the part of the government in the future. I would like to see non-prominent obedience done as requested in other areas. In many other areas, such as animal welfare, animal transport legislation, plant protection, there is always talk of an independent Austrian solution and attitude. Here, wherever there is a possibility, this is not the case for purely political reasons. I am surprised that a free party is against the fight against money laundering, which is against this Convention.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e10699	Mrs Haidlmayr has made a statement on an actual correction. She speaks from her seat. - Here you go. Speech time: 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e10723	My colleague Van der Bellen has claimed that the Convention on money laundering and the investigation, confiscation and collection of proceeds from crime and declarations have been discussed in the Health Committee. This statement is incorrect! No word was made in the Health Committee on this text. I wanted that to be correct!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e10745	Thank you. Another actual correction is made by the honourable Member Mag. "Firlinger" is the name of the program you would like to Please, honourable Member. Speech time: 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e10772	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Auer has said here that I would have said that you can use the cross-country saving book – thank you! – with the transporter savings book you can carry out whitewashing transactions. [[Rejoicing]] I'm actually correcting: This statement has not been made by me. It is true, rather, that I said that the European Union will prevail and that we will lose all hope of the coming action before the ECJ. The Professoral Teachings of the Colleague Auer and his sluggish advertising with a yellow savings book were therefore obsolet.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e10810	There is still a word from Mr Graf. Please, honourable Member, you have the floor. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e10832	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The speeches by Mr Auer and Mr Kiss have moved me to take the floor again. I am now quite clear why Mr Auer holds his Supervisory Board posts in the Raiffeisen-Landesbank Upper Austria, obviously only for political reasons and not through his ability. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] He said from the speaker's point of view that it was impossible to transfer money to a savings book. To do this, I have to tell him: He obviously does not know the banking world. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] Mr. Col., ask yourself, go to a switch! You can make transfers at any time to a savings account of an credit institution – if you mention the name, however it may be loud. They are messing up a little, namely, that we must then legitimise ourselves in the removal of the detachments. Know there You obviously don't care. But maybe have You learn something about it today and will take it out. I'd ask you before you claim to verify that before. I would also like to say one word at the address of Mr Kiss. It is not true that we are voting today on the approval of grid arrests and noise attack or a draft law on this matter, even if you have attempted to convey this impression in a rhetorical way from the speaker's desk. It was not agreed on the introduction of these instruments. They know that there will be a great deal of negotiation in this area in the House. We shall consider how the draft law in question will then look at the conclusion of the negotiations and whether it will come to a decision on it at all. The concerns in this regard must be resolved first. I think we all agree on this. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Van der Bellen has expressly stated that, because of the ratification of this law, it is logical – and this is also the case in the explanatory remarks – that anonymity must fall – even if you do not want to see it true. We are in an ongoing dispute before the European Court of Justice, and in fact we would all be called upon to maintain anonymity, then, if we really want to do it, to do everything possible to represent the best possible legal position before the European Court of Justice, to deliver ammunition in this direction and not to the others. How do you want to make someone aware of it or successfully conduct a procedure for maintaining anonymity in front of the ECJ, if you place files here almost monthly in this House and adopt laws that define the abolition of anonymity? How do you want to make this credible? . I believe that with this line you are driving as coalition parties, you are also making fun of Austria in front of the European international community. This must be stressed here. It's nothing else. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! That is also the reason why we take the position for Austria on this crucial issue and do not vote against Austria and therefore against this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e10898	Mr Auer has made a statement on an actual correction. I would draw attention to the current provisions of the Rules of Procedure. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e10922	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Graf has claimed here that I have a supervisory position at the Upper Austrian Raiffeisen-Landesbank. I put it right and reply that I have never held such a one and no one in it. If you have a spark, excuse yourself, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e10958	No further words are available. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall then proceed to the votes. - I ask you to take the seats. We shall first vote on the request of the Committee to give approval to the conclusion of the State Treaty, together with declarations in 127 and 127 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is decided by a majority. Next, we shall vote on the Committee's request, according to which the present State Treaty, within the meaning of that kind. Paragraph 50 2 of the Federal Constitution must be fulfilled by the adoption of laws. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this request by the Committee to give a sign in this regard. – This too has been decided by a majority. Finally, we agree that in the sense of this kind. Paragraph 49 2 of the Federal Constitution the French language version of this State Treaty must be made known in the official hours by means of a public understanding in the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I would ask the ladies and gentlemen who are giving their approval to this proposal on call for tenders to be given the same sign. – This is decided by a majority. We've got the 4th. Agenda item. 5. Point Report of the Building Committee on the Government Template (148 of the Supplements): Building Products Act – BauPG (648 of Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e11035	We're on the 5th. Agenda item. There is no need for reporting. We are therefore going into the debate immediately. Mr Ellmauer has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member, you have the floor. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e11062	Mr President. Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Under the Federal Law on the placing on the market of construction products and the free movement of goods with these products, Council Directive 89/106/EEC of 21 December 1990 on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the marketing of agricultural products and to the free movement of such products is to be amended by Directive 89/106/EEC of the European Parliament and of the Council. It will be implemented in December 1988 on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States of the European Union on construction products. I would like to explain a few points of Directive 89/106/EEC before going into the current building product law. According to the Council Resolution on the design of harmonised standards, the so-called harmonisation directives, the essential safety-related requirements are defined. They should apply to all construction products. As an intermediate step, basic documents are to be prepared to specify the requirements, such as class and performance levels. The application of the Directive is mandatory. This also includes the creation of legal bases for each Member State or Contracting State. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] The Standing Committee on Construction has the task of constantly working on concrete requirements or requirements profiles. The basic documents drawn up require the Commission's adoption and are published. Finally, on the basis of these basic documents, harmonised standards are drawn up by the relevant standardisation bodies, namely the CEN standards. During the transitional period referred to in Article 4(3), national standards may be recognised as consistent with the required standards. Where there are no standards, a European technical approval may be required. This takes place on the basis of guidelines drawn up by the EOTA panel, which is also a member of Austria. In order to obtain authorisation, a product must be necessary. The most important proof of usability is the European technical approval. Directive 89/106/EEC. Now to the current building product law. Of course, this law takes into account Directive 89/106/EEC and clearly distinguishes between the useability and conformity of construction products. A construction product may only be placed on the market if it is necessary and the conformity has been demonstrated. If usability and conformity have been demonstrated, this will ultimately lead to the authorisation, to the CE marking according to § 13. The government template is intended to implement the system of the Directive on the competence of the Federal Government in matters of construction. The amendment amends the Government's proposal to ensure that, in the Federal Republic of Germany, no independent European technical approval is granted, but that the certificates of conformity drawn up on a national basis are recognised. The European technical approvals issued by the Austrian Institute of Building Technology, the Federal Joint Approval Office, and the certifications carried out by the certification bodies of the countries, namely the respective offices of the state governments, will also apply in the federal construction areas such as federal roads, waterways, airports, shipping facilities, railway facilities as well as the Wildbach and avalanche installations. Austria's representation in the EOTA, the body of the approval bodies of the Member States of the European Union, is to be observed by the countries through the Austrian Institute of Building Technology. The Committee also adopted the following unanimously in the Committee on Buildings: "The Building Committee assumes that the Austrian Institute of Building Engineering is to be transmitted to the competent authorities of the Federal Government the necessary information and that the audit, monitoring and certification bodies accredited under federal legislation are recognised in the field of action of the countries without further in-depth examination." Both the amendment and the Committee's adoption take account of the federal structure of our Republic and enable it to be effectively and cost-effectively implemented. As mayor, i.e. as the first building authority, I am glad that the law is being passed in this form today, because for the first time it recognises that countries, that is, local authorities, can make certifications. No own authority will be installed for this purpose in the Federal Republic of Germany. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My group will therefore be happy to agree to this construction product law.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e11138	The next speaker is Mr Marizzi. Please, honourable Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e11159	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Ellmauer has tried to make clear that the law at first glance is purely technical. In reality, it represents an improvement in the framework conditions for our construction industry. I think you can choose the title for this: Equal opportunities with the same standards as construction products are to be placed on the market. Ladies and gentlemen! We are basically implementing today nothing more than the EU's construction product directive, and we are regulating the future placing on the market of construction products. The essential requirements are strength, stability, fire protection, environmental protection, safety, energy saving and thermal insulation. Ladies and gentlemen! We still have a competitive disadvantage against the Germans, because the Germans had and have a building rule list. This is published by the Institut für Bautechnik and published in the "Deutsche Bundesanzeiger". What does that mean? – I would like to give you an example. We have good window manufacturers in Austria. However, not all can be delivered to the Federal Republic of Germany because they do not appear in this so-called federal indicator. On the other hand, the Germans can very well deliver to Austria because we do not yet have a valid standard. That is to say, this law clearly improves the competitive opportunities of our industry. Because we are talking about equal opportunities, I would also like to give an example of imports from Eastern Europe. Some Austrian producers have outsourced their productions to Eastern Europe. It is now often the case that they import part of their cheap, often inferior products into Austria. The producers remaining in Austria have a disadvantage in that they have not been regulated so far, and I am therefore glad that we are now deciding on these technical regulations, but in order to improve economic conditions. I believe that this is an opportunity for our construction industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e11200	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. Please, honourable Member, you have the floor. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e11221	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Building Products Act is a federal law on the placing on the market of construction products and the free movement of goods with them. It is about the implementation of a Council Directive which, on the one hand, has the useability and, on the other, the conformity of construction products, and the suitability of which is defined by the fact that a product must comply with a particular technical specification, i.e. a standard or a technical approval. Conformity is ultimately the conformity of the construction product with a technical specification. The construction products may then be traded freely if the two essential criteria just mentioned are met and – and that is crucial! - have also been proven. But there is also a problem in this law. This problem is the determination of the useability of the product. For this purpose, the safety of use of the product concerned, the duration of its use, its strength and some other criteria are crucial. Different regional requirements can be met, for example on climate conditions. I would like to mention the words 'freeze safety and weather resistance'; for example, the Committee has also mentioned the formation of algae in facades. This means that regional usability is not necessarily given, even if products comply with the product guidelines. With regard to the audit, monitoring and certification bodies, the possibility of accreditation has now been taken into account in this Act the legitimate interests of the countries. The main thing is to avoid two- and multiple-tracks in the course of the examination procedure. We will give our consent to this federal law. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e11259	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Barmüller. Please, honourable Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e11281	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, we believe that the Building Products Act is only an adaptation to EU directives, in the Federal Republic of Germany only the adoption of the EU Directives. It will be seen what will be done in the country area. But it makes sense because, in fact, it means the creation of a legal status which makes the internal market as a whole possible. We believe that the internal market should be made possible and not hindered by technical regulations, and we believe that this process will not be completed until we have a common European currency. In this sense, we will give our assent both to this bill and to the common European currency. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e11314	The last speaker is Mr Deputies' friend. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please. I would draw attention to the fact that at the moment we do not have the necessary decision quo.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e11338	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! My previous speakers have already pointed out that the decision of the Government's draft building product law Austria takes into account the requirements of the European Economic Area and transfers the Directive of the Council of the European Community into national law. This construction product directive applies comprehensively to all construction products manufactured to be permanently incorporated into structures of civil and civil engineering. It has also been pointed out that a construction product will only be placed on the market if the usability is ensured and the conformity can also be demonstrated. Now the countries too agree because the technical approvals can be made by the certification bodies of the countries. These arrangements are very important for the Austrian internal market. The federal states can now define a common framework, a stronger responsibility of the federal states. However, there must also be an increased use of wood as a construction product, which must find the corresponding precipitation in the individual regulations of the federal states. Wood has proved itself to be a builder of centuries and millenniums. We still have anti-wood structures in the federal states, wood is still being discriminated against as a building material. Only 3 per cent of the construction volume in Austria is built with wood, while in America 50 per cent and in New Zealand 95 per cent of wood is used. In the prefabricated house area we now also notice increased use of wood. Wood is pure, therefore an extremely environmentally friendly and due to modern glue binder technology also a very modern, versatile construction material. It must also be taken into account that wood can very well comply with fire protection regulations. In the case of a fire, wood is even cheaper because it is more predictable. It should also be noted that, for example, buildings in the Burgenland can only be built up to a full floor of wood, while for example construction regulations in other federal states allow two or three floors. I therefore call on the federal states to decide on more wood-friendly construction regulations because this would increase the opportunities for agriculture and forestry, for the whole of the wood industry, but would also bring additional positive approaches to jobs in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] The figures in the field of cutting wood exports from Austria are extremely encouraging. For example, some 500,000 cubic metres of construction wood were delivered to Japan in 1996, with 600 000 this year. Now it is important to use wood as a building material again with us. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e11393	There is no more word message. The debate is closed. Finally, the rapporteur did not agree. Ladies and gentlemen! I ask you to take the seats. Perhaps we can ask those colleagues who follow from the couloir to come into the hall now. We shall vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 648 of the Supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this draft to be a sign of approval. – This draft has been adopted unanimously. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, agree to a sign. The draft was also adopted unanimously at third reading. 6. Point Report by the Committee on Construction on Amendment No 22/A (E) by Mr Mag. Thomas Barmüllerand comrades concerning public construction solar plants (489 of the supplements) 7. Point Report by the Building Committee on Amendment No 74/A (E) by Mr Hans Schöllund Co-operatives on the revision of the Law on Residential Subsidy (WGG) (490 of the Supplements) 8. Point Report by the Building Committee on the days of the 75/A(E) of Mr Hans Schöllund Comrades on the merger of BGV I, BGV II and BIG (491 of the Supplements) 9. Point Report by the Committee on Construction on Amendment No 77/A (E) by Mrs Ing. Mathias Reichholdand comrades on the advanced implementation of an intensive work programme for the construction industry (492 of the supplements) 10. Point Report by the Building Committee on Amendment 137/A (E) by Mr Andreas Wablund Comrades on the repeal of the regulation on the road path of the B 146 (End-Trace) (493 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e11518	We now proceed to points 6 to 10 of the agenda, on which the debate will be held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are immediately entering the debate. The first speaker is Mr Magistrate. Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e11548	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In my contribution to the debate, I would like to limit myself to the aspects of housing policy. In particular, I would like to refer to the housing law of non-profit, to which liberal mandates have already tried an excuse for innovation. The other points will then be dealt with by my colleagues. Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to say that the subject of living and the subject of "profit-making living" remain, of course, subjects that go under the skin. Living represents an elementary need for the population and is therefore always up-to-date. A few days ago, the chairman of the Gemeindigen Baustandervereinigung, Karl Wurm, provided a remarkable newspaper report for attention. He spoke a little about the policy of non-profit builders under the title "Not brake in renting", and he also tried to explain from his point of view the future prospects in this sector. I'm not going to conform with many of his views. But one thing or another is quite remarkable. As a result of Mr Wurm's comments, from time to time movement is coming into this otherwise silent debate. We need to give people a sense of security. – This is what Karl Wurm, President of the GBV, says, the Austrian Association of Non-profit Construction Associations, in which all possible construction associations are united. In the large majority, it is from red and black-backed housing companies that tenants have kept a little bit on the gangband for decades and have dominated residential policy and housing policy in Austria for decades. You are all familiar with my critical statements that I have made in previous debates. I mean, if today Karl Wurm says we have to do something to reduce the rent charges in the non-profit housing sector, then of course he is right. For people who are flogged by the savings package who are threatened by rising unemployment, so they do not know how to satisfy the basic need to live, it is of course of fundamental importance when – I say – movement comes up. It is true that, for example, in Vienna, for a two- to three-room apartment with about 70 square meters of 7 000 s per month, the costs are defined in such a way that there is a depreciation period of about 30 years. It is therefore only at fixed costs that these 7 000 s fall for a relatively small residential area. Now there has been an interesting discussion. Mr Wurm has demanded that, for example, the municipality of Vienna, which has set up its own fund, should, as it were, make a cut off of 500 s per square meter in the construction land award – the prices which the municipality of Vienna demands are currently at 3,000 p.m., meaning that the municipality of Vienna should reduce the prices by 500 p.m. so that the speculation can be better managed. And if, for example, the municipality of Vienna does... – Speculantism, but, indeed. [[Abg. Eder: No, no!]] That is what we have to read, Mr. Cot, which is in the "Kurier". [[Abg. Eder: I read it! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] – In any case, it has been interpreted by the "Kurier". For example, if the municipality of Vienna did this, i.e. the real estate prices for newly built dwellings would be reduced by this amount of 500 s, then the non-profit builders would also go here and that yours would contribute to it. It was the speech of mobilising perhaps 500 S that this also affects the real estate price at 500 S. Mr Worm meant that the non-profit building associations could then mobilise reserves, as it were. There is now an interesting discussion in this regard that has been going on for years. All our advances in the WGG sector – the housing law – (coll Wa) – are based on the objective that, after financing an apartment where the tenant, the cooperative tenant, has come up for all costs, a transfer of ownership takes place at the end of this period, without the tenant being asked for a second time to the cash register. All these attempts have always been fought with the argument that there are basically no accumulated reserves, there is nothing of it that it is nonsense what representatives of opposition parties claim here. – With this argument one has "closed". I believe that the practice is another, ladies and gentlemen, and that is why we should really take this issue seriously. We have to do it with 20 million square meters of building land reserves that the non-profit housing cooperatives – divided into 90 percent on red and black bearers’ associations – hoard, and of these 20 or 22 million square meters, even 17 million are ready for construction at any time, i.e. to be put into new construction land at any time. I believe that this is an unsustainable state, and I would therefore like to urge you once again: Let us together consider a change of the WGG! Let us take a close look at how we manage this transition, how it is socially acceptable and socially fair for the transfer of ownership. Let us leave this position of the current label gap, in which a co-ownership which is in reality none, ladies and gentlemen, among cooperatives and cooperative dwellings in the framework of non-profit housing is accelerated. Let's finally go over to clear definitions: Social flats, rental apartments, dwellings and such apartments, which can be transferred to property under certain conditions, but without paying a second time! That would be the necessary honesty in politics. We also need to talk about the future role of cooperative apartments. What does public housing want? . I mean, need for action, for example in the start-ups sector, would be recommended. So if today someone moves into an apartment at the beginning of his career – for example, a young family – he knows that he pays at the beginning with his modest income a rental rate of about 1,500 S or 2 000 S for a 55, 60 or 70-square meter apartment, but also that this apartment is only available for a certain period of time or that, if he stays in that apartment, he must pay more over time, so to speak, as a premium for non-extracting. I believe that these are reasonable approaches which are contrary to the fact that there are not only too few dwellings, but that there are too few such apartments that are generally manageable for weak incomes. That's the real problem! There are enough apartments, there are plenty of buildings available on the market, but these are expensive. I believe that there should be a package of measures in this respect, on the one hand the reform of the WGG, on the other hand some other approaches which concern the core of housing policy, which are also family-friendly and young families-friendly. If we could agree, ladies and gentlemen, then I would be very happy personally and then we could have a discussion that deserves the name "reform content" instead of constantly pushing the problem ahead of us and waiting for better times. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e11601	The next speaker is Mr Deputies Head. - Please, you have the floor. 10 minutes of voluntary time limit.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e11623	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! On these five agenda items, we are dealing with five requests from the opposition, all of which have been rejected in committee, as I have been rejected for good reason. I shall now try to explain the reasons, Mr Peter. [[Abg. May. Peter: I'm listening!]] On the first request, on the request of colleagues Schöll concerning WGG, housing benefit law. This includes three main claims: On the one hand, as regards non-profit associations. It is claimed that the cost recovery principle is a competitive advantage for non-profit associations. The opposite is the case! These companies are restricted by this set of costs in order to protect the tenants. . So exactly the opposite of what is claimed in this request is actually the case. This is also the intention of this provision of law. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Secondly, The continuation of the expiry fees is absolutely justified. What injustices – imagine! This would lead, however, if a tenant, perhaps even a renter who was later moved into the apartment, was not a tenant in the apartment from the first point of view, then at some point only paid rents, as is partly the case anyway, in view of the fact that net exit fees in Vienna in non-profit housing facilities between 5 and 15 s per square meter, are available without any guarantee of value, all of which result from such exit fees. So this would lead to injustices that no one can want in the housing market. Now for the automatic transfer to the owner's property after the disbursement: I am actually surprised that the liberals of forced expropriation speak the word – nothing else would be it. There are plenty of ways in the law to find contractual solutions – even before moving into the apartment, for example through rental purchasing arrangements – to carry out such transfer, or to establish the traffic value by means of an application to court. If we already need a change in the WGG, then it is more likely that we could avoid a judicial determination in those cases where, in the meantime, there has been an agreement between the tenant and the owner and the building association on the purchase price, so that the courts do not need to make any effort. This would be a useful change which we should perhaps seek in the near future, but certainly not the one provided for in this motion for a resolution. On the second item on the agenda, for the merger of Federal Building Administrations I and II with the BIG: The Federal Minister has explained in detail and for all of us clearly that he has already commissioned a study in his ministry in which to examine the improvements in efficiency which are desired and, in part, quite feasible. The report will soon be available, and then the first measures will be put in place, so that this motion for a resolution is inadequate, and we did not agree with it either. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: You left him long enough! For 1 year!]] Yes, that's right. He's from January 1996, colleague. But that doesn't change the fact that he's been out of control. On the third item on the agenda, in order to achieve an intensive work programme for the construction industry, it must be said that after a construction summit already in spring 1996, the Ministry of Economic Affairs ensured that the construction projects were completed quickly. These are 24 new construction projects with an investment volume of more than one billion schillings and 21 new construction projects with over three billion schillings, with which the BIG was implemented. Projects have been released in road construction or have already been launched in the meantime, such as Landeck, Volksmarkt, Klagenfurt, Selztal and so on. So all that is required here has long been in implementation, so that this request is lacking the basics, Mr President, so that he too has not been able to agree with us. A very important point: the request made by Mr Barmüller on the subject of solar installations and, if you extend the subject, in general for the use of renewable energy sources, also for the production of energy or for the production of heat in buildings. [[Abg. May. Peter: That's what you're against?]] No, on the other hand, Mr Commissioner, we are not in favour – but not under these conditions! [[Abg. May. Peter: Ah!]] Because a binding, as this application provides, of 1 per cent of the total building amount of the federal government to the use of solar installations is really not acceptable. If you continue these thoughts of bonds, you might still have a 2% bond for the use of chopping and I don't know what, and sometime the 100 percent will be exhausted, and then the Minister of Economic Affairs will be bound in a way that you certainly don't want. So in practice this is not feasible, although it must be said that the approach is reasonable, and the Minister has also promised to present a report to the members of the Committee or to the political groups on it. In the meantime, this one was also sent to us. I believe that this report sets out very clearly what is already happening to environmental protection measures, to alternative energy use by the Ministry of Economic Affairs in the Federal Buildings it has set up. I believe that nothing else is intended by you, Mr Barmüller. I share the intention, with the intention of conforming, but do not ask with this commitment which you have proposed – quite apart from the fact that the Ministry of Economic Affairs is already active to a large extent and exemplary. To the last item on the agenda, close to the end. There has been a very detailed debate on this in this House recently. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: That was something else! ...]] This was a very detailed debate, including on the meaning and necessity of this project. Assigned: There are natural protection problems, including problems with the agreement with the EU, but these are in a good way to be solved. [[Call to the liberals:Wachtelkönig!]] Mr Commissioner, if you are talking about the Wagelkönig, I should already like to say that the protection of people who are highly affected and wish for a discharge is always so important and sensible to me that they are safe from the protection of animals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e11732	The next honourable Member is Mr Magistrate. Barmüller. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e11753	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am entitled to come to the request which, of course, most of the time lies in my heart from those requests which are being negotiated here under one, and that is the one that concerns the solar power plants for public buildings. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe all that has been said here by the head of Parliament, and I also believe that there are efforts on this from the Federal Government, but I am surprised that none of these measures that have been proposed – and I believe we really have everyone who is imaginable – fit. It remains that we are all for renewable energy sources, but that we do nothing to really enforce them structurally. Let's start: There is no cost-effective remuneration in Austria – we are not supposed to be able to afford it – there is no connection with public buildings, there is not even the consideration, Mr Deputies' head, to abandon expensive granite, steel and glass facades and instead to make photovoltaic installations. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Header]] Such facades are in price exactly what you would need to wear a whole facade photovoltaic to produce electricity. This would be a good thing, especially with regard to the second World Photovoltaic Conference, which will be held here in Vienna in 1998. It would be good if the public hand were to make photovoltaic systems instead of stone, glass or steel facades where it is really calculated – and these cases exist. But none of it is possible. As Mr Kopf has said, we are also in favour of biomass, but it is true that, when they are expanded, natural gas networks have road rights, which biomass networks can only dream of, ladies and gentlemen. It is in the National Environmental Plan that we want to use renewable energy sources, that we prefer them, that we see an income option for Austrian farmers, but there is no way to really enforce it. The fact is that, even with regard to biogas use, initiatives have not yet been launched by the relevant government parties, the competent chambers, to help break through these technologies. All this, ladies and gentlemen, is not done, but it is written in the National Environmental Plan, it is written in the energy report, in the last, in the last, last, in the current one we have here in the house, and it will probably also be in the next, but we will not really go on with regard to the number of plants. One thing, ladies and gentlemen, was to conclude by saying: Interestingly, the only thing that has really been carried on in Austria in the field of thermal use of solar energy is only what has been done in the private initiative in Styria and then in the other federal states. It seems to be true that the official institutions are more hindering than encouraging. . This and also as a statement that we will not take note of this negative report from the Building Committee because the government parties and thus Austria are missing a very crucial opportunity, namely the opportunity to establish renewable energy sources and thus a more decentralised energy supply structure in Austria. The report on Mr Schöll's request concerning the renewal of the housing benefit law is only said that we also think it would be useful for cooperative dwellings to be transferred to property by those who live in these apartments after all the loans have been cancelled. I believe that this is a useful way forward, and we therefore agree with this motion tabled by Mr Schöll. We believe that it is not justified simply to reject it, as has happened in the Committee, and not even to look at what could be done in this context. And perhaps it would have been quite good to set a time horizon, so that one could have won the impression that something really is happening here, Mr Eder. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eder.]] But all this didn't happen. It would have been a comfort if you had said: Yes, this is a sensible idea, we want to do the same, we are going to change the law by the end of 1997/1998 in such a way that it will be possible. I am also saying this because it has now become known that more and more funds are being used in the field of non-profit-making housing against the provisions of the housing law, and it is interesting that this has no consequences at all. I am therefore saying this because it makes it clear to what extent the non-profit-making residents are trapped in the area of the parties. The example I am addressing here is the GIWOG. You will certainly remember the last discussion on the Court of Auditors' activity report. It was to be read, however, that say and write 874 million schillings from the GIWOG have been postponed to VOEST contrary to the provisions of the housing law. This has led to criticism, including from the Court of Auditors. I've shown this from this pult. But now one has happened, ladies and gentlemen: I hear that for this shift of 874 million schillings, almost a billion schillings, there are no political consequences, contrary to the provisions of the housing law, and that is not the case - as the Court of Auditors have suggested - but that the coalition simply sells the GIWOG. It is sold so that it is no longer subject to the control of the Court of Auditors, and as regards all the money that has gone to the VEST, it says: Swamm over it! Now I'm wondering, What are there tax advantages for non-profit housing companies? But to do so, they can make room for themselves. Instead, they move the money – interestingly in the period of privatisation – to a company that is privatized or at least to the stock exchange. This is highlighted by the Court of Auditors, which is outlawed by the existing legal provisions, but it is not done by the government parties. If you, ladies and gentlemen, believe that the Court of Auditors should, anyway, only be able to maintain the appearance of the rule of law and the efficient and appropriate administration, then I must say: He's too expensive for that! Because we can also have this "fassade" cheaper. We only need to do what is always done here, namely, that the responsible ones, when such a thing is shown, say: We're not going to react to that because it's not true anyway! If it is not true what the Court of Auditors says in its criticism of the last activity report we have discussed here, then it should be clearly put on the table. But if it is true, then we must ensure that these provisions are complied with, and then we must call for recovery. For it cannot be assumed that legal measures favouring private individuals in the creation of housing and that, if they do not use tax privileges in accordance with the legal provisions, i.e. illegal, they do not use the money: Swamm over it! That's not going to happen, and we're going to show it when it really comes to selling. I only think that the statement of reasons attached to the request made by Mr Schöll, which speaks of the power of the people of the community and of their shattering and reconciling with the political parties, has a lot of substance in substance. As far as the request concerning the merger of the Federal Building Administrations I and II and the Federal Property Society is concerned, we will agree with the negative report of the Building Committee, because we believe that what is required in the request is correct in the trend but cannot be carried out. As you know, the Federal Property Society is already distributed – it has not been privatized but has only been distributed – while the Federal Building Administrations I and II still represent purely administrative structures. We think you should go another way. One should not put together all three units, but should first put together the Federal Building Administrations I and II and then really privatize with the Bundesimmobiliengesellschaft – not just outlying, but privatizing. Exploiting is something that is done here again and again: The institutions are distributed out and only one thing is done with this: They are deprived of the right to interact with the Members of this House – but they are not deprived of the political influence of the government parties. And that's something we're accusing. We Liberals are of the opinion: If you are disseminating, then it should be those who are privatisations, and not just formal exclusions in which you limit Parliament's control rights and basically do not change the political influence in this area. That is why we are also putting forward a motion for a resolution on this item on the agenda, which reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] This, ladies and gentlemen, is the first logical step, and then we should talk about privatising all these units and not withdrawing Parliament's control. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dr. Heindl: It works!]] – We are convinced that, ladies and gentlemen, we are working. Now on the report of the Building Committee on the advanced implementation of an intensive work programme for the construction industry. To this end, I must say: I am surprised that the South-East Spage railway route, which we consider necessary, is presented by the Liberals as a short-term element of employment policy. For we all know that it has been neglected by the Federal Government in a hard way to advance this project, and that is why we are not able to call it a ready-to-design project. Nevertheless, my Ladies and gentlemen, we want to see something happening in this area, and we believe that the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs should also take advantage of his right of guidance, in order to check on those Councils of State which are responsible for the implementation of projects already under construction, projected and also financed. For it cannot be assumed that the implementation remains at many levels other than the federal level. And that's something that can be pushed forward in Carinthia. We therefore believe that our second motion for a resolution, which I am going to put into effect now, is a more precise one. It says: [[Quoted print version removed]] That, ladies and gentlemen, is something that can really be done. On the other hand, what has been called for in the motion for a resolution, which also concerns the report, cannot be implemented in the form proposed. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] The last point I would like to address is the report by the Building Committee on the repeal of the regulation on the road path of the B 146. You know, ladies and gentlemen, that this issue in Styria has been boiling for 20 years, that water law has still not been dealt with and that accession to the European Union has led to an amendment in the field of nature conservation. Although it was said by the Administrative Court in October of the previous year that, in any case, nature conservation law does not stand in the way of the construction of the Ennsnah Trass, it is interesting that a new nature conservation notice – and that should be made – has not yet been issued by the Styrian state government. It is undisputed that the Endstal needs a transport solution, of course, and Mr Kröll will agree with me if I believe that this transport solution must take place with the involvement of a two-track extension of the railway in the area. It is not useful to bring about an "inntisation" in the Ennstal and to make transport infrastructures on every side of the valley, namely, by not complying with the spatial planning and by remodelling of the newly built roads, but it makes sense to finally find a solution – even with the involvement of an EIA – that will be really feasible. I guarantee you that none of the solutions on the table that are now on the table will be enforceable in terms of the emotionalisation that is currently taking place over these projects in the Innstal. This is, of course, also very much to the detriment of the population there, because, with the end of the war in the Balkans, this area will, of course, be more frequented by means of traffic. This area has not been so burdened in recent years, it has been quieter there, but these traffic-based loads will come back, and therefore we need an integrated expansion in this area. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, it is time for us to face up to the problem that the current variants are neither accepted by the one side nor by the other, that the policy in Styria and also at the federal level by the Federal Government is currently unable to implement these projects. I therefore think it is necessary to find a new approach. In this context, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to add something: The head of parliament has said that, when it comes to quail kings and other animals – whatever – it is important to protect people. It must be accompanied by an undisputed commitment. I hope that this high value of human life will then be taken into account by the ÖVP in the debate on the 0.5-promille border in Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e11859	The two of the honourable Member Mag. Barmüller's motions for resolutions are supported by business regulations and are included in the negotiations. Mr Eder has spoken. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e11883	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to make a comment on what Mr Firlinger said only insofar as he, if the press conference of the President of the non-profit associations had not been, would probably have had relatively little topic to say here. I should also like to draw up a tip which I would like to give to Mr Barmüller before he leaves the hall and before he agrees to Mr Schöll's request, in the opinion that the request was formulated in such a way that someone living in a non-profit-making apartment could be transferred to the property after 25 years of repayment of all the loans. Unfortunately, I have to object to this in so far as the total cost of this apartment is not yet covered. You know very well that for rental apartments, for example, basic prices are not, or often only partially, taken into account. If the request is formulated in such a way that this inhabited apartment can be transferred to the value of transport and all that has been paid is credited, then we could already agree. I think that's what you mean. I do not think you think that someone who has received a rental apartment, who has often also been given the opportunity to enter a sponsored apartment, can also be transferred to his property unverified. One thing has to be taken into account – and this is also not so clearly contained in the application in question: The question arises when someone moves into a rental apartment. If he had lived in it only in the last five years prior to the expiry of the loans, he would be the wrong address for getting the apartment into possession, then he would also have to pay the difference. I therefore believe, Mr Barmüller, that from the principle we do not have much difference in this subject at all. It is, I believe, only about the right price finding for those who then live in the apartment when the loans are paid out. That is exactly what we need to talk about. But this is not clearly formulated in this proposal. I therefore cannot accept this request, and I would also recommend that you look at it again before you agree to it in its current form. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: Mr Eder! When do you think we'll be able to talk about it in principle?]] I am convinced that in the autumn of this year we will certainly be able to talk about the WGG in general areas and will certainly be able to talk about these questions. No problem! Ladies and gentlemen! But today – I really want to deal with it because some of my colleagues will then deal with other issues – we have the opportunity to deal with some oppositional proposals on housing law and on housing policy. They are, for the most part, Members of the Liberal Party and are likely to be characterised by express freedom of continuity and consistency with proposals made by other colleagues from the same party or earlier by the same applicants. The only comprehensible consistency in your proposals, ladies and gentlemen of the Liberal Group, is their popularity of content, their more or less stereotyped reasoning with long-standing – you have expressed it again in square meters today – with long-disputed arguments and figures. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.]] For example, 1993 – listen to me, Mr Firlinger!, at that time you were not in the Freedom Party at all or not yet, I do not know exactly – so in 1993, at least your liberal colleagues – at the time you were not there – who had formulated the liberal positions on housing policy – there is a paper that you can also read that would be quite good – that you should offer tenants supported apartments their rental apartment for sale. In 1995 a urgent request was made – again by the Freedom Party – that the financed rental apartments be transferred to the tenants' property. The motion for a resolution which I have just mentioned calls for a transfer of the apartments to the property of the tenants, regardless of whether the apartment is already financed, and, of course, regardless of how long the tenant has been using this apartment, how much he deserves, how well his budget size corresponds to the size of the apartment. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: No, that's not true!]] These differentiations are not contained in this application. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: This is a motion for a resolution and not an initiative!]] However, the most remarkable innovation in the position of freedom lies in the reason and the objective of the request, because the proposed measure is also intended to contribute to the recovery of the economy. How this recovery is to be done is not said, and this is indeed difficult to imagine. On the other hand, it is easy to imagine that the proposed transfer of the rental apartment to the property of the tenants can help to revitalize the senses of those who are so happy. It is also possible for the courts, particularly the Constitutional Court, to consider this form of expropriation of the Constitutional Conformity. If the proposal – and I assume that it is not implemented – the recovery of the courts, the economy and the senses will remain, and, in my opinion, it will only remain a resurgence of the nonsense of housing policy. The fact that there was and exists a meaningful and successful housing policy in Austria is most likely to be due to the oppositional proposals of the liberals in the quality described above. The current figures from the housing industry show that there has been a huge housing offensive since 1991/92 and that it has been carried to a large extent by the non-profit associations and, above all, has been financed by equity which is constantly criticized by you. I say again and again: let us be glad that we have companies with equity that can finance. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: We have nothing against equity! That's a fact-of-the-art twist!]] The non-profit associations, my group Ladies and gentlemen, they have used their reserves and their current income to this end, so that today it is confirmed by the Revision Association and the Supervisory Authorities that, in the non-profit sector, there has been virtually no significant, since 1993 also taxable persons – for that would have become taxable, as you know – reserve capital, and that the joint beneficiaries have contributed significantly to improving the feasibility of newly built dwellings through own funding of basic costs and also parts of construction costs. This housing offensive has created a largely sufficient supply of housing in almost all regions of Austria, with which current demand can currently be met. It is therefore now the appropriate time to think about new priorities. It would probably be missing to continue to force new construction activities and to create regional overproductions with emptiness risks. More meaningful – especially for job creation and environmental impact reasons – is it now to step up the renovation of the old house and the improvement of the old house. In residential renovation and improvement, there is a possibility of the nationally meaningful use of own resources of non-profit building associations, with which they can and can significantly improve the economic profitability of these measures. If reforms of the housing public utility law – I mentioned earlier – are necessary, then they are necessary in an area in which these economicly meaningful conservation and improvement measures are facilitated or facilitated and in which, for example, the environmentally sound procedures for reducing house management costs for energy, drinking water, domestic care – including through cost-related cost-sharing models – are made possible. The form of property required by the free movement of persons in non-profit housing has been established since the 3rd century. Law on housing rights, that is, for more than three years, possible and also largely very practical. There are also considerations about adaptations to procedural simplification. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: You just said something else!]] Mr Firlinger! We are not available for unthinked gift actions without any social balance. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e11982	Mr Ing. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Reichhold. Please, honourable Member. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e12003	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. High house! I had once had the opportunity to refer here in plenary about the advanced construction activities in Carinthia, so I can take a short look today. I had therefore done so because it is proven that Carinthia is a country in which structural unemployment is particularly high. It is a question of dampening, holding back, creating new jobs, especially in the area of road and residential construction, the unemployment in the construction sector in the southernmost federal state. Carinthia is a country that, like no other, depends on public construction orders. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Through the construction of water pipes!]] Mrs Mertel, I myself worked as a building representative in Carinthia, and even now this competence has come into free circulation if you want to do so, so we know very well that of the 133 billion schillings to be awarded to Bauvolumina in 1995, 100 billion shillings from public contracts would have come, however, in the course of the savings package, the budget cuts in Carinthia in turn were carried out, so that only a small percentage of the 100 billion schillings that were estimated in 1995 for the construction volume in Carinthia are actually used. Mrs Mertel! I think it is a duty and a duty for every Member of the Carinthian delegation to work for jobs in Carinthia here in the House and to ensure that the promises made by your chairman in Carinthia are kept before elections. Her former chairman, Mr. Federal Chancellor Vrannitzky, was the one who came to Carinthia before elections and spoke constantly in press conferences about a "resurrection billion". The fact is that nothing has flown from the "resurrection billion" to Carinthia and that we are still waiting today, Mrs Colleague. I believe that, in order to be politically credible in Carinthia, you have the obligation to do so. You are there, as you know from the last polls, a size that will probably no longer be the number one in the next country election, but if you can believe the polls, you will probably be the number two. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: What do I have to do with country elections?]] You also need to think about why you're so bad. You are so bad in Carinthia, because you are constantly making promises, but they are never met by you. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: I'm not!]] If I say "you", I mean your group. It is not a question of the constant pilgrimage of federal politicians to Carinthia, to play as big money-creators and money-bringers, and then, when they have returned to Vienna, they want to hear nothing more about it. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That is also the reason why I tabled this request here. I believe that it would be a useful addition, which would help to boost the construction economy in Carinthia, to achieve follow-up contracts for the commercial economy, and in all, to improve the very sad balance of Carinthia in this area. I hope, Mrs Mertel, Mr Müller, that you, as Members of the Carinthian Group, will also agree with my request. I believe that the time when we can laugh at it must be over, because we are at the top of the country's castle country, which is from structural unemployment – I am not talking about the seasonal unemployment that we are talking about; because of the break-in we are also at the top of summer tourism – we really have a need to catch up and try to join them. The promises made, in particular by your group in Carinthia, must be respected, and the projects in Carinthia, which are also mentioned in the request, are finally to be realized.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e12073	Mrs Bures is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e12095	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to pay particular attention to the request made by the Freedom Party to move forward the demand for transfer of non-profit housing into housing property. I believe that it has been avoided from the applicants that after 3. This possibility of property creation already exists in two ways: On the one hand, non-profit housing associations may offer the purchase of the apartments at any time after ten years, on the other hand, there is a legal claim of the entitled owners or tenants on the purchase, if, in addition to the fee, the majority of the basic costs have also been cancelled within the first three years. On the second point, namely the accusation of financial resources to the public, the liberals seem to be so marked by their close relationship with private housing providers, to private agents and to private household administrations that they do not make any distinction. In fact, in contrast to the private, non-profit-making owners cannot take advantage of any profit, but – regulated already in § 1 of the WGG – have the obligation to use their funds to fulfil the common welfare tasks in the housing sector and to devote their assets to this task. Thirdly, As the reason for this motion for a resolution always refers to figures coming from the period 1990 to 1992, I think that, as far as the development of the reserve capitals of the common people is concerned, a number of years have passed in the meantime. I would like to draw up a little of this on the example of Vienna. 1992 – that’s the year you start; five years ago – there were 526 million Schilling Reserve Capital, and in 1995 there were just over 100 million Schilling. That is, there was a reduction of 400 million schillings that were invested. Of the 65 non-profit builders in Vienna, there are only seven that have any reserve capital at all. These are those who have not had new construction activities due to the low reserves in recent years. This means that in the period 1990-1995, which you are also talking about, the equity of the non-profit people has increased from 3.5 billion schilling to 10 billion schilling, equivalent to a threefold increase. And in terms of construction performance in this period, it is an increase of 75 percent. Nevertheless, there are also a number of demands on the public. This includes, for example, a much increased use of funds in the purchase of private old houses, i.e. not only investments in the new building sector and for building on the green meadow, but also for the purchase of old interest houses and for the renovation of these houses, in which private owners – especially in the problem areas in Vienna – have left fearsome rental conditions. It is precisely this task that they will have in the future to become more involved. In principle, the boosting of housing performance in recent years has been a double success: On the one hand, thousands of jobs in the construction industry have been secured, on the other hand, it was particularly important for those seeking housing to increase the offer of housing, not only in principle increasing the offer of housing, regardless of rental interest, but also increasing the offer in a segment where there are only unlimited rental contracts, and in a segment where clear rent rates are guaranteed. As far as living is concerned, as in many other policy areas, we stand for diversity, so there is already public funding in the field of the promotion of dwellings and private homes. I am convinced that the market also needs a certain supply of housing property, it is only important that the legal form of the rental apartment is not devalued because it is a legal form which is very important and because the rental apartment is a very legitimate form of residence. To replace the non-profit housing sector exclusively with property, as can be seen from this request, is to be rejected in many ways. It is a question of whether tenants want to justify ownership, whether tenants can afford to do so. We see, rather, the reverse trend, that there is an increasing number of efforts to make self-resourced rental homes available, because young people do not have enough capital to get into the purchase of an apartment. There is another problem with the area of residence. We know that at the latest after the second generation, 70 percent of the dwellings will be rented again. This means temporary rental and rental without renting interest limits. In this way, people seeking housing have to meet their housing needs. This also means that there is a very limited redundancy protection and a very limited price protection in this context. This means that a compulsion – as is foreseen – is to be refused for the purchase or sale of an apartment. However, there are a number of ways to make changes to the housing law. However, such changes must be geared towards restoring the real concept of origin of cooperatives, namely, the creation of a manageable housing and the guarantee of an ant-friendly administration. There is a very substantial demand, which must also take precedence. I come back to the example of Vienna. The non-profit associations in Vienna were invited to reduce the rent after the refinancing of the construction costs to a maintenance rent of category A. This improvement, which has been made in Vienna – where there is free responsibility in state governments – is by no means done, but only in Vienna – should take place everywhere. In order to make this improvement available to all tenants, a corresponding change in the WGG is essential. We are concerned with withdrawing only the category of rents after full repayment of loans and loans. In addition, efforts should also be made to ensure co-determination between tenants and beneficiaries. All these are concrete measures that would actually be in the interest of tenants and in the interest of those seeking housing. However, we reject requests for expropriation, as we have today. I personally order them among those bizarre ideas of freedom on the subject of living, which we have seen all too often in recent years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e12177	The next speaker is Mr Wabl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e12198	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the rare pleasure of being discussed in a joint debate on agenda items 6 to 10, in which "relative" topics – from solar installations to rental rates to road processes and other political fields – are addressed. All of this is dealt with under the motto: The opposition also has here and there a request, which one must treat somehow, and that is why we will carry it out in a collective debate. Ladies and gentlemen! I am not going to deal with the rental interest rates, nor with the solar plants, but I will deal with my request, simply and grippingly, modestly as I am, only with my request that I have made. My request concerns the repeal of the regulation on the road path of the B 146. Mr Kröll will now listen very carefully, Mrs Bunder too, and she will certainly speak later. Mr Kröll, you and Mr Kröll, in particular, have certainly taken to heart what Mr Khol has said here today very impressively, namely: No man is above the law, nor is the head of state of Styria, nor is the minister of buildings, nor is the minister of the environment. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Right!]] That is why you will finally distance yourself from the regulation on the road path of the B 146, the Ennsnaher Tress. I am very glad that Mr Klubobmann... [[Abg. Böhacker: What is the name of the state captain of Styria?]] At that time it was Mr. Krainer, now it is the head of state Klasnic. The head of state was also responsible for transport at the time. I am glad that the Klubobmann of the ÖVP has made a clarification today, and I believe that this attitude will also be taken throughout up to the Kröll Parliament. We are not above the law, and that is why the regulation will certainly be repealed today, because it clearly violates the laws, because everywhere – for example, in the procedures with the water-law approvals, in the building documents – laws have been disregarded, because a self-regulatory political caste in the felt with the bureaucracy has tried to push through a project that clearly violates federal and country laws. That is why I am sure that you will agree today with my motion for a resolution, the Greens' motion for a resolution, and will take account of the repeal of the regulation on the road path of B 146. Ladies and gentlemen! I do not accept – and I believe you, Mr Khol, too, will not want to risk this – that now that a infringement procedure has been initiated by the European Union, which threatens to be condemned by Austria by the European Court of Justice, you really want to risk such a condemnation. Your vote, Mr Kröll and Mrs Buder, will create a zero solution. The legendary Old Stalinist sentence "Human Protection Goes Against Bird Protection" does not help either. This is the new, modern interpretation of the old-Baustalinist lobby. Ladies and gentlemen! I heard a lot of nonsense in the argument. But here to make these cynical remarks, I think I am particularly inappropriate, especially as you, with your sending, law-abiding attitude, torpedo with your sending advocacy on this issue. If you would today agree to the repeal of this regulation, ladies and gentlemen, then at last it would be possible to do what the Styrian Parliament has decided, namely that the development of stocks can finally be started so that the alternative variants can be implemented and implemented as quickly as possible. I think it's a cynical approach to holding the population in the Innstal for so long, although you know that you can't enforce your solution anymore, except you're going beyond the maximum of your clubman's chole and you think you can play the law yourself, you can even rule over the laws. Ladies and gentlemen! I think this is a process that is really enormous. If the Court of Auditors' subcommittee on arms purchases is to be successful over the next few weeks, what I believe will be done, if the enormous statements made in this committee are clarified, statements that were clearly false – in the Styria, it is said to be "lye" – when this committee is thus concluded, then there will be a committee that will examine precisely these illegal operations that have been carried out in the field of the head of state, in the field of national bureaucracy in Styria together with the federal politicians. This will be examined here in this House. Mr Kröll will certainly be in this committee, Mrs Buder, too. We shall try there to investigate these incredible errors of bureaucracy and politics, and I hope that in the end we will finally come to a solution in the interests of the population. Mr Bartenstein! I do not know if you know the decision of the Styrian Parliament. At that time, due to the illegal procedure, it was clearly established that the alternative variants would be calculated and planned immediately. As a result, however, little has happened because you obviously take an acidic attitude on this question and say: We do the Ennsnahe Trasse, and in doing so we pass over every law, over every reason, over every nature conservation and ultimately over every protection of human being! The stock variants were calculated. The planner, who had previously enjoyed high reputation, was "cut" by the state government. He was not allowed to discuss at all in the localities what these variants should look like. There are already very concrete ideas about this, very concrete planning. Of course, that would take time. But one thing is definitely not going, Minister: I do not assume – that with my colleague Khol was of course a bit ironic –... [[Abg. Dr. Khol: (his conversation with Mrs. Abg. Tichy-Schreder Interrupting) Erotic?- Oh, my God!]] No, no, no, You'd probably have stopped that from talking to Mrs. Tichy-Schreder if I had made an erotic pretence here. That was an ironic prelude! Mr Khol! I do not believe that your group will immediately follow your good advice today, but I hope that reason will prevail on this question. Mr Bartenstein! I would like to ask you, in the interests of the people and also in the interests of environmental policy, in the interests of human policy, in the interests of a human policy, to finally create clarity here and to remove this illegal state. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e12275	Mr Riepl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e12297	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! In this section of the agenda we also discuss issues of the Building Committee, issues of investment in the construction industry. I think we should hold on – and I would like to do so – that investments in the economy, whether they are in the public or in the private sector, will bring about structural improvements and competitive advantages, but they will also help to safeguard and create jobs. In particular, construction investment, investment in the construction industry, is mostly particularly active in employment. However, I would like to stress the word "most" because investment is not always employment-effective. In recent weeks, more and more employers have come to the trade unions, to representatives of the Socialist Group and have complained of their suffering. They have shown to us that they are often disadvantaged in the case of contracts, as low-cost bidders often calculate with illegal foreign personnel and then carry out the contracts accordingly. They have complained about this – I would like to stress once again: in the trade unions and in the Social Democratic Members, they cannot expect any help from the Chamber of Commerce and have not yet received any assistance. I am sorry that Mr Maderthaner and Mr Deputies are not in the Chamber at the moment, but I ask Mrs Tichy-Schreder to continue this. I repeat: Employers – I emphasize: not one, not two, but several groups of employers – have come to us in recent weeks and have said: At least you are helping us from the trade union, from the social democratic means of influence, so that we do not become disadvantaged in the economy. How does this discrimination work out in practice? – There are invitations to tender, public or private, cheapest offers are made and often received with pleasure from the public or private client and rewarded with the award. However, the cheapest bidder is often unable to deliver the service himself, he is not able to fulfill this order, especially at the price he has offered. Therefore, he often uses sub-contractors, who often serve other sub-contractors, and these companies are usually those who try to recruit foreign workers only to carry out this task and get legally or illegally to Austria. With this, they get through the rounds cost-effectively and thus they can fulfill the order. In reality, however, it harms the serious, ordinary entrepreneurs in Austria. I would like to stress that these are not my arguments as a Social Democratic MP, they are not my arguments, as we hear them from works councils, but these are the arguments that we constantly hear from the workers! [[Abg. Tichy-Schreiter: That's right! I know these arguments!]] It is tried to juggle with sending permits, it is tried to get the people legal, but if that fails, then the labour force is illegally there – for example, it is only recently happening on a large building site in Burgenland. You could read about it in the media. Checks of the labour inspector have shown these maladministrations. The result of such practice is: Austrian value-added is lost, value-added goes elsewhere and serious employers with properly employed workers are ultimately the fools. I think it is unreasonable to continue to watch these practices! We can't afford it either. Work inspectorates' work and construction site controls showed the following picture in 1996: In 2 267 establishments, infringements were detected under the Foreign Employment Act. These are 11.5 percent more violations compared to the previous year. That's the number for the whole of Austria. If the development in the individual Länder is seen, it is apparent that large regional differences are noticeable in the number of such infringements. For example, the number of enterprises that did not comply with the Foreign Employment Act increased by 50 percent in Carinthia from 1995 to 1996. – By the way, the car house Grasser, the family business of the liberal representative from Carinthia, was not included, because this case was long ago behind and did not happen until 1995. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Dr. Novotny.]] Ladies and gentlemen! 2 267 establishments with a total of 4 083 illegally employed foreigners are the result of very efficient controls by the Central Labour Inspectorate and all labour inspectors. If we count this on the industry, we must note that 16 out of 100 companies controlled are employed by black workers. That is, as I believe, a scale in which one can no longer move to the agenda, because the people concerned are exploited and because society – whether state, social security or the economy – is being damaged. Individuals benefit at the expense of serious businesses. Ladies and gentlemen! In my opinion, therefore, the fight against illegal employment is not a matter of a single party, it must not be the subject of just one party or group. The fight against illegal employment, especially if it is organized, as it happens in many cases, should all of us become more serious and consistent together. – I would like to invite you all to do so.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e12343	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl. – Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e12365	Mr President. Mr. Minister! [[The speaker looks at the mostly empty rows of seats.]] Ladies and gentlemen, who were still in the hall! I would like to address the request made by Mr Schöll, who is concerned with the merger of the various Federal Building Administration Units and the way to them. I agree with Mr Barmüller that in future it is not possible to limit itself to organizational privatisations or so-called organizational privatisations, which, although they do not control Parliament but do not reduce the political influence of the government parties on these units. The aim of this application is to save costs, thus saving tax shillings. Especially in the light of the forthcoming budget negotiations, it would be necessary to use any – but really any – savings potential! Mr Schöll's request would be an excellent opportunity, ladies and gentlemen. But we are accustomed to you refusing our proposals until they are forced, by the constraints of the facts, to recognize their accuracy and to cause our proposals to be implemented in the end. If you were to show as much imagination as you would invent stress, then we certainly would not need the next savings package that will occur in the course of the budget negotiations. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! A proposal for a debate: Why should the user of a particular building not take over the administration of this building himself? – An example of this: In an answer to a question that has been answered to us, we have experienced, in answer to the question of how many employees of the Federal Building Administration are responsible for the management of the military buildings, the following horting number: 1 503 employees of the Federal Building Administration are responsible for the administration and construction of the properties of the federal army. We currently have a total of about 35 000 soldiers in Austria. If you calculate this, you can see that, in fact, an employee of the Federal Building Administration manages the accommodations and properties for 23 soldiers. I think it totally inexplicable why the German army itself should not have the capacities and the possibilities to manage the buildings it has used. These examples could be continued at any time. They, however, reject the opposition's proposals and instead cancel the recruitment of external experts to investigate rationalisation measures. However, there would in principle be no objection if the results of such investigations were also implemented. But as we know, these expensive studies, which are being prepared there – probably on the pressure of the BGV staff – disappear in the drawers. If you are going to reject this request today, you will not come around in the long term for a complete privatisation of the Federal Building Administration. Finally – as a nearby MP – to the end of the trail: Transport policy priorities have shifted. I believe that, at last, as hundreds of dead people are accused and millions of damage are reported, something has to be done in this area. Promote the close-up as soon as possible! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e12425	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Wait, wait, wait, Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e12446	Mr President. Federal Minister! I am allowed to deal with Amendment No 22/A (E) in a short time. I believe that all of us here in the Chamber believe that the extraction and exploitation of solar energy should be enhanced and promoted. The question is just how this has best to be done. I think it is not quite fair if we pretend that nothing would happen in this area in Austria. On the contrary, I believe that the results of solar energy promotion in Austria can be seen. In his annual report 1995 on the state and development of solar technology in Austria, Professor Faninger from the research centre Seibersdorf can support the positive sales development of solar technology with revealing figures. Both the number of companies and their production volumes doubled in 1995 compared to the previous year. The number of installed collector surfaces increased by 24 percent over the same period. About 80 percent of these are used in the area of hot water treatment and room additional heating, the rest in the area of swimming pools heating. The total level in Austria has already reached about 1.3 million square metres of collector space in December 1995. The heat produced by thermal solar plants corresponds to a heating oil equivalent of about 114 000 tonnes per year. This prevents around 356,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide emissions. Austria is one of the world's best-equipped countries, as can be read in the 1996 Energy Report, as measured by the area per head. The use of solar installations in industry and in industrial enterprises is supported by the Austrian municipal credit. In 1996, around 1.8 percent of the total environmental funding was spent on solar installations. It is gratifying that this support has been extended to an indefinite period since 1990. The annual collector area installed in Austria was around 33,000 square meters in 1985. Ten years later, this number has almost increased. Prices for solar power plants and their accessories are falling permanently. In 1996, collectors for heating and hot water treatment were 25 percent cheaper than a year before. The prices for photovoltaic collectors fell by about 50 percent. It is a clear movement of the market to be seen. As an example of the state's progress with good example, I would like to remind you of the energy-saving offensive that was started at the local universities. Over 400 million schillings are spent each year at 18 universities of energy. The project "Energy-Efficient Universities" launched at the time by the Minister of Science Scholten is now intended to help make consumption more efficient and thus reduce costs. The aim of the initiative, which is carried out at all local universities and universities and is under the leadership of the Ministry of Science, the rectors' conference and the Austrian University of Applied Sciences, is to use the expertise and potential available at the universities to increase energy efficiency. It is important, as I believe, that the results of the project are not limited to universities alone. We want to achieve two objectives: on the one hand, energy saving and on the other, more employment. In principle, I welcome the intentions and objectives formulated in the request of Mr Barmüller and his colleagues. Only the proposed implementation by means of a rigid legal corset does not seem very useful to me, because I believe that not every object can be evaluated equally energy-technically. However, I believe that the League should play an exemplary role in this matter. Ladies and gentlemen! I would now like to briefly describe a large project which has significant macroeconomic effects and can also achieve greater energy savings, namely systematic and comprehensive thermal renovation. In this area of thermal building renovation, an annual investment volume of 36 billion schillings was allocated to Austria for over five years. The consequences would be approximately 40 000 employees in addition, tax revenue of 15 billion schilling, a reduced effort for the unemployed of 9 billion schilling and in the final expansion a relief of our energy imports by 15 to 20 billion schilling. These results are based on a study by the Technical University of Vienna from 1994. In contrast to conventional economic promotion, the project "Thermal Building Rehabilitation" requires less public funding than a concentrated action by the federal government, countries, municipalities, building owners, construction and credit equipment. The first step should be to establish a co-ordination body to prepare the project. This package could and should of course be integrated into solar technology. We also want to look at the solar energy itself, not in isolation, but together with the other forms of renewable energies, namely hydropower, biomass, biogas, wind energy and waste burning. In this way, our situation in Austria is not bad. In Austria, 22 percent of energy production and about 80 percent of electricity from renewable energy sources are generated. Austria is thus far at the top of all European countries, where the average for renewable energy production is around 3 percent. We therefore also have a low CO2 emissions per capita in international comparison if we refrain from countries with high nuclear power production, such as France or from countries with high electricity import rates such as Italy. This excellent position must safeguard and further expand Austria. However, it is necessary to link a comprehensive package. On isolated individual measures, which undoubtedly cause more costs than they benefit, we do not want and cannot accept.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e12522	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. - Please. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e12543	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My contribution to the debate will deal with the motion for a resolution on solar installations for public buildings. Solar energy is certainly a non-essential sector in the circle of renewable energy sources. Ladies and gentlemen! I can assure you that we are liberals for the use of these energy sources, and I believe that we are committed to all the useful measures that increase the share of renewable energy in total energy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This is done for many reasons. I only mention a few: the Toronto objective, often referred to here in this House, the CO2 problem, the reduction of foreign dependence on oil and gas supplies, the discomfort that many of us feel when purchasing electricity from nuclear power plants produced abroad, the creation of jobs through the construction and use of renewable energy plants. Ladies and gentlemen! This proposal has the content of 1 per cent of the construction costs for the construction of solar installations. This is a motion for a resolution which is essentially intended to produce a model for the use of solar energy. Which areas of these public buildings are referred to in this proposal? At least I read out: in short, everyone. That is, the building of the building as well as the civil engineering. I wonder if it makes sense when you build a street piece, to build a solar plant in the order of 1 percent of the building amount. I do not think this is the case. Or: It is affected by the new, the conversion and also the construction. If you accept small amounts of investment, accept a total of 3 million schillings, then that means you will build – if this resolution is to be implemented – a solar plant by 30 000 S. As regards publicly funded buildings, which are also affected by this motion for a resolution: For example, I'll have you build an asphalt stickway and we'll build a solar plant in the order of 1 percent of construction costs. – I don’t think this can be it! The application also does not include any possible withdrawal of these investments for solar installations not to be allocated to the property. We liberals take the view that the motion for a resolution in itself is not consistent with the fact that it is not reasonable to implement it, that it costs tax resources and that it is likely that the objective underlying this request, which I believe to be, is not achieved. Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me to comment briefly on the comments made by my colleague, Mr Kopf, who has seen the approach or the basic idea – and he has formulated it – quite positively in this motion for a resolution. But – and then came the But – he said he could not imagine that in a public building a bond of 1% of the building amount should be done. He asked: Where would that lead to several such things being stopped in a row? I have the impression - and Mr Kopf has also smiled at this - that the government party ÖVP and also the larger coalition partner, SPÖ, may only be required to take a particular interest in the field of renewable energy. Ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and SPÖ! You will soon have the opportunity to demonstrate the seriousness of this effort, when the new Energy Organisation Act comes on the table and we debate it. Then you have the opportunity to change these structures substantially and sustainably, as I believe, for Austria, for its citizens, for the economy, for the industry. At the same time, as you want to deal with the regulation of feed-in remuneration with the Energy Organisation Act, as announced, you have the opportunity to give renewable energy sources a corresponding market opportunity. I fear – and these fears are justified – that you will only fulfil the minimum level of what is required by the liberalisation of accession to the European Union, that there will again be no real privatisation of the E-Economy, that no real liberalisation, no meaningful and the economic location of Austria can take advantage of competition, no demonopolistion, but unfortunately you will be able to hold on to these, as I have my old and outdated structures. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If you want to teach me or to teach us the freedom of a better person, I will of course be happy. We liberals have, in any case, presented a paper, a study which is seriously concerned with the reorganisation of the e-commerce, which shows a reasonable solution to reorganisation, which it would be worth being implemented as well. Ladies and gentlemen! This motion for a resolution will not be approved by us for the reasons I have just mentioned.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e12622	Mr Müller. — (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e12644	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I refer to the request by Barmüller for solar installations for public buildings and, of course, I am also in favour of increasing the expansion of solar energy and other renewable energy sources, but only in those areas, where this is proven to be useful. By taking the example of schools, for example, the installation of solar power plants appears to be limited logical, since this hot water treatment is known to have its highest efficiency in summer if no hot water is needed due to the holiday. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Do you believe that sports facilities are not used during the holidays?]] I am sure that a combination of heating systems with solar energy could make savings, especially in the transition periods. In any case, profitability calculations should be made in individual cases, which should reveal whether solar installations make economic sense or not. I do not think it would be a good idea if we were to place huge collector surfaces on the roof, but the building had no thermal facade and no sufficient thermal insulation. That is where we must set priorities. Especially in the case of older buildings, it is necessary to deal first and foremost with thermal building renovation before much money that the taxpayer has to spend on will be installed expensive and possibly non-usable solar plants. Of course, I believe that new buildings which benefit from the use of solar energy should also be used accordingly. Ladies and gentlemen! Similarly, it is our goal to reduce CO2 emissions, but we must use the means available to us to achieve the greatest possible positive effect with minimal financial effort. In times of budget consolidation, we are even obliged to do so as a responsible politician! I believe we have many possibilities in the area of heating to reduce CO2 emissions. According to the National Environmental Plan, building renovation must in principle be given priority over improving the heating system. Investment in this area not only minimises CO2 emissions but at the same time significantly reduces energy demand. We thus create jobs, because a billion schilling for the old house renovation ensures 1 400 jobs. As already mentioned: We must set priorities. High house! I am in favour of the priority given to thermal building renovation – and not only to public buildings – because this seems to be both environmental and energy-political as well as economic. Ing. Mathias Reichhold, in his speech by our Members of the Carinthian Party, requested support for his application 77/A, work programme for the construction industry. It has, however, overlooked the fact that this request has long been obsolete. Because here it says: "In the light of the above, the promotion of labour-intensive and infrastructure-necessary construction projects such as the Klagenfurt Safety Centre would be an essential and targeted labour market policy measure with a positive impact on the Austrian construction industry." I agree, of course. But it's supposed to be Ing. Reichhold has been excluded from the construction of the Klagenfurt Security Centre for a long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e12684	The next speaker is Mrs Buder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e12706	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I shall, of course, take the floor on item 10 on the agenda, on the motion for a resolution 137/A (E) of 14 May. ==References== This has already been debated several times in this House. There were time-limitation applications on 23. ==References== October 1996. It was also discussed in the Building Committee on 15 November. On October 21, 1996, the treatment was given on October 21, 1996. It was completed on 1 November 1996. Many things have been said: from the point of view of the others and from our point of view, from the point of view of those concerned. I just want to repeat one thing: It is not as stated in the motion for a resolution that this prescribed route in the population would be highly controversial, because 72 percent of the population have stood up for and voted in favour of this prescribed route. The Styrian Government has examined whether there is a possibility of building a road that meets the requirements on a route different from the one planned. The examination has been negative, so the state government has declared to the Federal Government that it considers new construction essential. We in the Innstal trust in these statements, because the B 146, the Ennstalstraße, is an important inner Austrian connection. We will wait for all the administrative procedures, and we expect them to be positive. The project is very important to us, because we do not want to be economically starved. We need businesses that settle in our district. But with roads that don't meet them, that won't happen. We also do not want people to be disadvantaged by the bad transport connections, because they move out of our district because they have no opportunity to find work there. Of course, we do not want our tourism stagnating either. It would be no wonder if the tourists would no longer be able to come if they had to expect to stay in the traffic jam for hours. The accident statistics also show that much has happened in the years 1981 to 1995. In recent years, a total of 620 accidents occurred despite the 70-hour-kilometre limitation, and 62 deaths in total were to be complained. These are 4.2 dead per year on the 15-kilometre long road, which is five times as much as the average on Austria's federal roads. In view of the fact that 15 000 to 30 000 vehicles drive this part of the B 146, it is recognized how urgently a solution is needed. This solution is intended to be in the sense of the population, as has already been suggested by Mr Wabl and Mr Schöggl. Of course, it should be as soon as possible. We don't want to wait for 26 years and longer! It would not have been done with other transport solutions either. The population of the Ennstal has been waiting too long for this building. I think the solutions need to be looked for and found now and not after the turn of the millennium. We must, of course, deal with the need for all procedures to be properly dealt with. Of course, it must not come to a zero solution – that would be the worst possible solution. And to condemn us, Mr Wabl, is also wrong, because I have often talked to opponents of this route, and they have said: If the vote goes out like that, then we will add to it. – You have not yet reached the vote. You always mean you're right. Of course, we know very well that administrative procedures and detailed planning for a different variant might run until 2010. It's a way too long. We need this road now, we need it soon! I hope, of course, that the decisions will all be done positively. I trust the promises, and I am also convinced that the state councillor Hirschmann is doing the natural protection procedures as we wish. That is why my group agrees with this report from the Building Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e12763	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Merchant. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e12784	Mr President. Minister! High house! One of our current debates is also employment in construction, and this is very closely related to the last Committee meeting. At the last meeting of the Building Committee, we also discussed the subject of truck toll and toll at all during an open debate. In order to stimulate employment in the construction sector, it is necessary, on the one hand, to coordinate the construction projects constantly, but not only that. The most important thing is certainly to increase the overall volume of construction activity. We know that at least three quarters of the total volume of construction in Austria are from the public sector and that in turn, it is a very important piece of road construction. We also know, however, that in times of budgetary scarcity, we are hard to finance these public buildings. It is therefore also necessary to look at new financing patterns. One of the key financing patterns for increased public road construction – in particular motorway construction – is of course the truck toll. Therefore, we have not decided without reason to introduce the truck toll from 1998. Of course, the truck toll is not only necessary because of the volume of construction and because of the employment of construction, but there are many other good reasons for this: for example, transport policy reasons, such as the effort to bring freight from the road to the rail, or distribution policy reasons, because at present the car is highly financed by the truck. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: That's not true! Both do not cover the cost of the way!]] That's very true. You know that the damage to the road depends on the weight of the fourfold power. Therefore, the damage caused by the truck can be seen in a completely different dimension than that caused by the passenger car. There is a relatively solid and secure knowledge. But I perceive – through your call for an interim, partly through the nature of the words in the building committee – that there is more and more a decommissioning movement from the truck toll, and we do not want this decommissioning movement. We want to realize the truck toll in time as it has been decided here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This withdrawal movement actually has two faces. There is on the one hand the argument of linking with the car toll, so according to the motto, to create the widest possible widest defense front, and then you will already have enough opponents of the truck toll. I say: It is also provided in the law that the truck toll is the first step. The second step is to take years after that, we do not need to discuss it now, and there can also be a truck toll without car toll. The second side of the withdrawal movement is as follows: It is more and more argued that the timely introduction of the truck toll is not at all possible. This was also the subject of this open debate in the Committee. The Director-General of Alpenstraßen AG, Ing. Peter Unterholzer, in his report, finally came to the conclusion that he cannot at present imagine a closed, fully electronic toll system by 1998, i.e. in time. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: How was that at the ecopoints?]] Press releases after this meeting of the Building Committee have given the impression that this was a generally accepted attitude in the Building Committee, but, Mr President, it was not so! This was not a generally accepted attitude in the Building Committee, because some speakers, especially those of the Socialist Group, also raised arguments against it – I believe, too, Mr President-in-Office. The essential point, however, is that if you are serving a particular group of experts who have not recently acquired a particularly glorious name – the Alpenstraßen AG was also commissioned to introduce the Vignette, and that was truly no fame sheet – other experts must also listen. There is a statement from the Association of Electrical Industry, which clearly says that the timely introduction of this truck toll would also be possible electronically. That's very important, because it's just... [[Abg. Dr. Schwimmer: They have special interests!]] Of course they have special interests, but obviously those who are opposed also have special interests, namely the interests of the transport industry. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: But the liability for the revenue they rejected!]] And that is why the association of the electrical industry has also assembled that it wants to be more involved in the preparation of the truck toll. It is therefore likely that the expert groups will need to be extended to come to a truly reasonable system. Another point, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, is the following: [[Abg. Dr. Schwimmer: Ask those who are involved whether they are also liable for it to work!]] Only the Alpenstraßen AG seems to me to be little, because the likes of Alpenstraßen AG did not deserve any fame in the introduction of the Vignette. [[Abg. Dr. Schwimmer: That wasn't my question!]] I think that is essentially the answer. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Schwimmer: Do not praise! You're supposed to answer my question!]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I see that you want to get rid of the joint decision as much as possible. I see that, and I can only say again: We don't want that. We want the timely introduction of this truck toll. I therefore come to the next and very important point. An important argument in this debate in the Committee was that the experts, in particular Director-General Unterholzer, meant that, within the meaning of § 2 of the existing law, the timely introduction would not be possible. Why not? – Because § 2 of the Federal Road Finance Act contains the requirement that this toll should be introduced in 1998, but only – that is the one point – if there are possibilities for electronic devices and – that is the essential point – to the extent that this truck toll can be transferred to the car toll under the same conditions. The expert also says that this will not be easy or impossible. Mr. Minister! The answer can't be an axe. The answer cannot be: Then the truck toll will come later!, but the answer must be to also try to other experts on the one hand. Maybe it's possible for others if it can't do Alpenstraßen AG. Another point – that is the most important point today – is: If we have passed a law in the National Council requiring too much of a condition to introduce this truck toll in time, in particular this transfer to the car toll, then we should discuss in committee and here in plenary whether we should not change this § 2 and give up this close connection with the car toll, which would actually enable the truck toll to be introduced in time. The aim must remain to ensure that the truck toll is introduced in time, as we have decided. This is necessary for transport policy reasons, because we all want to bring freight to the rails. It is necessary, for reasons of cost truth, because we do not want the car to finance the truck, and it is ultimately also an essential condition for employment policy reasons.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e12916	Mr Kröll spoke as the last speaker in this debate. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e12937	Mr President. Minister! High house! I spoke on the request of the Greens concerning the repeal of the regulation concerning the B 146, Ennsnahe Trase, to the motion for a resolution 137/A (E). I should like to add a few words to the remarks made by my district colleague Hannelore Buderan. The urgency for the population, for tourism, for the economic location of Ennstal was not reduced, but increased. It is therefore to be understood that the large majority of the communities who have committed themselves to asking the population are still present at 70 percent and more. Yes, I say, more up-to-date than ever, because in the meantime, after the war years in our southern neighboring country, traffic increases dramatically again, accidents accumulate, the storage space grows and the accessibility of the Innstal becomes increasingly difficult. I'm sure you can't take that. We already have a peripheral position in the district, and we already have long distances to the centres, whether we travel to the federal capital or to Graz. We can no longer accept these further difficulties. It is therefore understandable that, according to various opinions in the state government and in the country day, government and country day are now taking action for this prescribed route that has taken decisions. Of course, as has already been said, all administrative procedures are waiting. I hope they will now be carried out quickly. I also hope that an agreement can be reached on nature conservation with the EU institutions. If the track can also befriend yourself with this track – in the sense of Mr Barmüller's speech – if there are such possibilities, then this is their case. But you can't give up the trail. I would therefore like to express my pleasure at the fact that the urgency has been recognized here by all the speakers. However, I must also refer to Mr Wabl's comments: If we do not have this regulation, we have nothing at all. Then we start at the hour zero. But we've been waiting for more than 20 years now! This regulation is right in broad areas, land has been redeemed, there are still a few things to do, but one cannot give up this regulation. This would really be a thing that no one understands who lives there, who lives there – even our guests who visit us, and the economic operators. I am allowed to report from my experience – and I am unfortunately also saying this with the tone of disappointment: We have achieved a great compromise in the Styria – even with the opponents, also with the Greens – by not building a freeway, but by reducing the project's highway to a federal road. After this compromise had been found, the same opposition as with the project "Schnellstraße" rejected him again. I predict today that if the regulation falls – but it must not happen – no other solution will be accepted. In the Styria, in the Ennstal with eight trails, with several hundred million schilling and 20 years planning was approached as carefully as possible. It's been checked, and there's no better solution. We must therefore be opposed to the Wabl proposal and, in the sense of the Building Committee, to maintaining the prescribed route. I very much hope that everyone will pull a line and really see that the rest of the decisions and the approvals will soon be made. I hope, Minister, that there will also be preferred means of implementing the route. I am convinced that this is possible because of the high priority. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e12991	Mr Grollitsch has now spoken. The speaking time available to your group is 11 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e13013	High Bureau! Mr. Federal Minister! I can't help but lose a few words about the planned projecting of this highly controversial route guide in the Ennstal. For 26 years ÖVP and SPÖ have wanted the Ennsnahe Treasse. 72 per cent of the population wanted and want to do so, according to the statements of my predecessor, namely Mayor Kröll. But I wonder: Why isn't this street yet? What obstacles have emerged that have quelled their construction? Was the determination of our national leaders and all the speakers not sufficient in the past? It was suggested that an opposition was formed. It was suggested that conservationists and environmentalists spoke out. Clearly, their arguments were increasingly heard. Obviously, these were increasingly taken more seriously. Increasingly, the uncertainty regarding the Ennstaltrasse grew – originally intended as a motorway, later projected as a reduced, smaller variant. Mr. Mayor Kröll! Ladies and gentlemen of red and black! It has not been said – and Mr Wabl is quite right to give as far as the argument in his motion for a resolution is concerned – that you have been making it since 1. 1. In 1995 it could no longer be possible to select whether this route will arise or not. This is over, and this is decided with the EU vote. We were just not informed that this is the case. There are bird protection directives, the habitat guidelines to be complied with. These were signed by Austria. One simply does not get over this situation described by Wabl as illegal. The train left! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In order to prove general rethinking, I would like to quote from a fresh memorandum a sentence on traffic: A spread of existing roads or an increase in the road network only has a positive impact in the short term. More roads produce more traffic, the density of traffic is back at the previous level within a short time, and the result is even more enormous. My reigns! This is not a manifesto of the green side, these are not doctrines of Global 2000, but this is the pressurized memorandum of the Works Council Academy of the Chamber of Workers of Lower Austria – now distributed into your subjects. So this is the last stand to be communicated to you by your cadre academy, by your business academics. There's some other thing inside, but maybe there's also a rethinking. Mr. Posch "haut" is "haut" – as it is so beautiful – and leans back on this subject. [[Abg. May. Posch is stretching.]] But you will not be able to deal with the contents of the statements of your successors. This discussion will simply not pass you by. If, on the one hand, one acknowledges these EU barriers, and on the other, one accepts rethinking in these areas, then one simply comes up with solutions that call for an existing situation, then one comes to solutions that come with bypasses in these areas. I have been very serious and in-depth about this issue – I do not know from Mr Wabl whether he has done so. A few days ago, a water morphological study on the Styrian Enns was published in the Enns Valley, which is still fresh today. For years I have tried to list the sins of the past committed on this river and to prepare a future-oriented solution accompanied by reconstruction measures. The thanks to this study, which is said to be self-lobe, says that I am grateful for my commitment and for the organization, which has ultimately made it possible for this study to come. In this thanksgiving, in which 80 people and clubs are listed, however, the entire left block and the entire green movement are missing. There was therefore no preparedness there for a serious consultation with the contents, including no support for these works, which have since been completed. I will send a copy of this study to Mr Wabl. If he makes the effort to read this study, he will see that, on the one hand, to a certain extent he finds his method of doing so, on the other hand, he will see the dangers associated with the type of origin of the Endinsnah track. It has been complained here – for example by Mrs Buder – that tourism and the economy in the area of the Innstal – as Mr Kröll has of course not been wrong – has been calling for road solutions for a very long time. I believe, however, that tourism does not call for this route near the end of the road, but tourism in the end area lives and perhaps flourishes precisely because it is not primarily the case that there are concrete transport areas there. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Over 26 years of clear opinions by the rulers have not led to a somewhat acceptable solution. With 1.1.1995, the train has already passed through the existing EU directives towards Ennsnahe Traasse, and we are not allowed to do so. Unfortunately, this is to be accepted. You yourself have wanted to join. We didn't want him anyway. Now, say B to this A and choose the best for the future from the three variants required by the EU! It's not or it's not the end of the trail. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e13095	There is no more word message. The debate is closed. There is no final word from the rapporteur. Please take the seats. We now come to several votes. We shall vote separately on each of the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall come to the vote on the request of the Committee on Construction, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 489 of the supplements. Whoever is in favour of taking note of this report, I would ask him to give an appropriate sign. This report has been adopted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Construction to take note of its report 490 of the supplements. Whoever is for the notice, I ask him for a sign of approval. . This report has been largely taken note of. We are now voting on the request of the Building Committee to take note of its report 491 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of a corresponding sign. – That's the majority. This report has been adopted by a large majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Barmüller and comrades concerning the merger of BGV I and BGV II. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. We are now voting on the request of the Building Committee to take note of its report 492 of the supplements. Who is for that, I ask him for a corresponding sign. . This report has been largely taken note of. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Barmüller and comrades with regard to ensuring the immediate realization of already projected construction projects. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. Finally, we are voting on the request of the Building Committee to take note of its report 493 of the supplements. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. - That's the majority. This report has been adopted by a large majority. The agenda is exhausted. Request for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e13217	We are now entering the negotiations on the request of Mr Moser, Mr Gredler, for the establishment of an investigative committee on the political responsibility of the Federal Government, and for alleged illegal influence by political agents in connection with the murders of the 13th century. ==References== This request has now been distributed to all Members, so that a reading by the author does not have to be done. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e13259	We are going into the debate. According to the Rules of Procedure, the speaking time in this debate is 5 minutes for each speaker, with the first speaker having a speaking time of 10 minutes for reasons. Comments from members of the Federal Government or State Secretary should not last more than 10 minutes. First of all, I would like to give the floor to Mr Hans Helmut Moser, the first speaker. Please, honourable Member, you are speaking. Your speaking time is 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e13289	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is very important for this Parliament today to discuss, on the basis of the request of the three opposition parties, the role of the judicial and police authorities, but also the role of the members of the government in connection with the Kurds in 1989. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The starting point of this discussion is the "Mykonos" judgment of Berlin, which, as you know from public reporting, has hit like a bomb, not only in Austria, but also internationally. [[Prolonged calls of the Abg. Marizzi.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The European Union has not, on the basis of this judgment, called back its ambassadors to report. Not for nothing, Mr Marizzi, read in the APA, the UN Human Rights Commission strongly condemned the murders of the exiled Kurds, which were obviously carried out on behalf of Iranian government. Ladies and gentlemen! This judgment is a very courageous arbitration that has been made despite massive pressure on Germany, despite massive pressure from the official government agencies of Iran. For us, he is also a very impressive demonstration of the independence of a court in a democracy. I would have liked to see this sincerity, this straightness and also such behaviour from Austria in the past. I therefore believe that this judgment cannot be estimated to be high enough. There may well be an impact on Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Lösnak: Which one?]] Mr President, I should like to thank We can then still debate and discuss this, and I also expect a debate to be held here. There are, therefore, effects on Austria, because the wire-drawers in this procedure could also be the wire-drawers of the murders in Vienna and have been called official representatives of Iranian government, but also due to the parallelity of the course of the attacks. I believe that the former Iranian President Bani Sadr has absolutely correctly judged when he meant that Vienna – and it is unfortunate that there has not been any court proceedings – was considered as an example of the "Mykonos" attack in Berlin. Ladies and gentlemen! We therefore need action in Austria. We need action in the interests of the rule of law, we need action in the interests of the credibility and integrity of Austria abroad. I think it is absolutely inadequate for our Foreign Minister to come and now, in a press release, to state that the critical dialogue has not been sufficiently critical, but is not prepared to actually take further concrete diplomatic steps, and, as has been said, only half-hearted diplomatic reactions. We therefore need action, both in the field of the Ministry of Justice, namely the Federal Government and Parliament. I therefore believe that it is high time to continue the surveys within the Ministry of Justice so that the truth comes to light and there is a condemnation of the perpetrators. We, ladies and gentlemen here in Parliament, also need to act, namely to establish and examine the political responsibility in connection with the surveys of the police, the judicial authorities, but also the role of the authorities, because it is the constitutional task of Parliament to carry out this control task accordingly. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I call on you to respect your responsibility as members of this House, as set out in our Constitution and established, as well. What are these facts which make it necessary for measures to be taken both by Parliament and by the Ministry of Justice? I would only like to present them shortly because they are the basis for the subsequent discussion. As we know, three exiles were murdered by Iranians in Vienna in July 1989. At the crime scene, two Iranian citizens, who had an Iranian passport, that is, were obviously on the way on behalf of the Iranian state, and who, according to the common sense, because they were at the crime scene, were also regarded as suspects of crime. What happened? – No arrest warrant has been issued. There has not even been an arrest, as is the usual practice. One has not even applied for a warrant in accordance with Article 75 of the Criminal Code, i.e. for murder. Nor has it been imposed the mandatory arrest as usual, but one has issued a warrant for suspicion according to § 92 of the Criminal Code – you will not believe it – because of suspicion of quealing and neglect of unmistakable, young and defenseless persons. That was the section after which a warrant was issued! Ladies and gentlemen! That's ridiculous. In addition, this arrest warrant has also been immediately withdrawn. They're pure fake activities. The question must be asked: Who is responsible for these luminosity activities? Who bears the political responsibility for these activities of our authorities? – This can only have been the responsible Federal Ministers – the then Minister of Justice and the Minister of the Interior. But it goes even further: There has then been an obduction, but the observation report has not been immediately transmitted to the competent prosecutor. You've been let go for weeks. It has not been informed accordingly to the gerichsmedizer, although the result of the obduction, i.e. the report of the judicial doctors, has clearly disproved the statements made by the suspects. But nothing happened. Our authorities were inactive. Obviously, the authorities have made a common case with the murderers of the exiled Kurds. It would have been possible, therefore, that it would have been necessary, on the basis of this observation report, to issue a corresponding arrest warrant in the light of the contradictions between the statements of the suspects and the report of the judicial doctors. But what did you do? – One has a suspect who is guilty of crime without problems, without any difficulty. There are already record notes in the meantime, there is already a lot known in the meantime, which suggests that the exit of the persons concerned has obviously been made with the knowledge of the authorities. In this context, the behaviour of our police authorities is very likely to be criticised. There have been serious errors in the investigations, the information has not been passed on. And what is incomprehensible to me is that one has even given the direction to reduce the monitoring of the message. On 29.11.1989, the Director-General for Public Security gave the direction – I quote – that in the future the control of persons only more gentlely – only more gentle! – to be carried out by the criminal officials. And a week later, the order was given to stop the ever-increasing control and surveillance. That, ladies and gentlemen, was a serious failure of our authorities. This is a violation of service obligations. There are those responsible for this, and those responsible are also to be sought in the area of political leadership. I cannot imagine that the responsible officials, the staff, have done so on their own responsibility. If we know the working methods of our executives, we know that they have certainly not done so on their own, and that means that more must be done. The most recent strike by our authorities, especially the judicial authorities, is probably the restitution of the case-law, which was sent by the widow of an assassin to the public prosecutor at the beginning of December last year. This case-law has already been filed at the beginning of this year. This was again a sign to me that one is not willing to carry out concrete surveys on the basis of facts that prove a lot. And then there was the impression that the transmission of this information, this decision, had at all fallen asleep, so that only after the announcement of the "Mykonos" judgment had been notified to the competent prosecutor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e13338	Deputies! Please, your final sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e13353	It is therefore cynical when Mr. Federal Minister Michalek now states that...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e13371	Your final sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e13387	... the investigations will be continued with all the emphasis. I therefore appeal to you, ladies and gentlemen, that you also give our request for the setting up of a committee of inquiry, so that at last...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e13419	That was the final sentence, Mr Deputies. Thank you. The next item is the speech by Mr Leikam. From now on, a speaking time limit of 5 minutes applies. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e13443	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The "Mykonos" judgment in Germany provides considerable attention, in several respects. On the one hand, it is the process itself, which provides for attention. After all, 3,000 police officers had to be stopped in order to be able to handle the process properly at all. Secondly, it is the impact of this process, which provides for attention, that is the judgment that has been passed there. On the one hand, tens of thousands are demonstrating against the German Embassy abroad, on the other hand, the opposition politicians in Austria are hearing the grass grow, so to speak, and they are urgently demanding investigation committees. [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: This is not just about opposition politicians! Haven't you read the judgment?]] Ladies and gentlemen! The game that should be played here is very transparent. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: This is not a game! It's a cover-up, a very serious thing! It's about human life!]] It's a very transparent game, and that doesn't mean "conceal", but it's a very transparent game to be played here. [[Call the liberals:Lucona! Noricum!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I'll come back to your calls. The applicants today act as if there had been no investigation at all when the three Kurds were murdered in Vienna, as if nothing had happened here as if they had just been transferred to the agenda. This is not the case, ladies and gentlemen. This procedure is still valid. The international arrest warrant still exists against the suspected perpetrators. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Boy: After you let her go!]] Let us first leave it to the courts to judge what has happened here. I have already said: three years of process in Germany, 3,000 police had to protect the process. If we wait for the outcome, we are waiting for what the Austrian judicial authorities have now demanded, namely a follow-up to the written judgment, and then the Austrian judicial authorities should continue to negotiate and pursue this murder. [[Further calls of the Abg. Young.]] Let's wait for this! Don't you have confidence in Austrian justice? I have confidence in Austrian justice. Let us wait for this, and if everything is on the table, then we should continue to negotiate. – Or are you perhaps already in possession of the written judgment of Berlin? We don't have it yet. [[Abg. Scheibner: We don't need that!]] [[Abg. Asshole: Look at the police records!]] You, based solely on press reports, are once again carrying out in your well-known way debt allocations, which we must reject most decisively, ladies and gentlemen. If you already have the judgment in your hands, say it! We do not have it yet, and neither do the Austrian judicial authorities. That is why we can only rely on the facts currently known, and they are that there is a procedure in Austria and that this procedure is being resumed and continued at the moment when the court judgment has also been reached with the Austrian authorities. Parliament, the Commission, the Council and the European Ladies and gentlemen, no relevant documents can be used. We need to use the legal aid procedures here so that the Austrian courts get these documents at all. Parliament does not get it. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: You must have a lot to hide!]] The Austrian Ministry of Justice has contacted the German judicial authorities immediately after the announcement of judgment. I would therefore like to say once again: Let us wait until the judgment is here and until then the Austrian authorities continue to provide. And a clear word on your accusations to Austrian politicians. You act as if nothing had happened here at all, you say: Everything has been covered up, everyone has helped so that the perpetrators could escape! Ladies and gentlemen, I do not have time to go into all this in detail. [[Abg. Young:... you'll still get it! Just rely on it!]] I don't know if you're predestined for that. You are certainly caught because of your former task. Or would you like to say here today what you are doing here in Parliament? Is that what you might want to say? I do not have enough time to go further in detail, but I would like to draw attention to one point, my Ladies and gentlemen: You should have a written request from the then MP Mag. Waltraud Horvath read at the time Minister of Justice Foregger, who was born on 28 March. 11/1989. If you read this written answer carefully, you will soon find out that your current accusations are going empty, and you will soon realize that you have gone far too far in your assessment, in your debt allocation. But as always, you have not taken the time to read the facts, but you want to produce scandals, and you are on this road again today. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's what you're doing!]] It's clear to us: We trust the Austrian courts, and we will therefore reject the setting up of committee of inquiry.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e13605	Mr Platter is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e13627	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! ==References====External links== Unfortunately, July 1989 in Vienna is one of those bloody crimes in Austria that did not lead to the arrest of the perpetrators. If I start the investigation process and the case-law of the murder on 13 March, I'll be able to tell you that I'm not going to do it. ==References====External links==* Official website In December 1989, I admit that the investigations have certainly not done everything perfectly. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the Greens.]] . Only, ladies and gentlemen, I certainly am not laughing at this matter, I would like to tell you quite specific! Ladies and gentlemen! After that, it is very easy to talk and discuss and judge about it. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You don't want to discuss it!]] However, it must be taken into account that the investigation of such a crime is extremely difficult. Unfortunately, the criminals did not have the current information status at the time of the investigations. If through the "mykonos" process supposedly new load material to the cure murder in Vienna is no doubt the task of the court of independent judges to resume the ongoing but retiring proceedings. Mr Michalek has already stated that this procedure will be resumed so that witnesses can be questioned and that this attack will be re-examined. The EIA's line was and is it that courts and non-examining committees of Parliament should determine crimes. Moreover, only the judicial authorities in the context of the legal aid procedure will receive all documents and documents from abroad, just as this is the case with the Kurds murder. If the Court of First Instance then, after re-examination of the relevant Austrian documents, supplemented by the German documents, in the case of the Kurds murder in Vienna, comes to the conclusion that there is political responsibility, then the ÖVP undoubtedly considers it necessary to discuss a committee of inquiry and to use it. We reject the setting up of such a committee by the Austrian People's Party, on the grounds that an international arrest warrant against the suspected murderers was issued, that the international search was based on the suspected murderers, that the documents of the "Mykonos" trial were only handed over to the court and that the ongoing and restary proceedings were resumed. At the same time, there is certainly no need for a parliamentary committee of inquiry.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e13670	Mrs Gredler is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e13692	Thank you very much, Mr President. Yesterday, Mrs. Rasoul-Rockenschub told me that her precise presentation of the matter was dated 23. 12. ==References== 1. ==References====External links==* Official website However, it was not until the 14th century that the lawyer became a lawyer. ==References====External links== Ladies and gentlemen! So that happened exactly one day after the "Mykonos" judgment. I am therefore surprised to say that there is a coordinating procedure. There is no such thing, because it seems that the whole thing will now be taken up again. There's a certain discrepancy. They say there was no pressure from the Iranian government. I quote the "Press" of the 1st century. 8. 1989, according to which serious accusations were made against Austria on Sunday by Mr Ghassemlou, but the Iranian Government also raised serious accusations against Austria. But there was, says then Foreign Minister Alois Mock, no diplomatic exchange business. – So: There were probably accusations from the Iranian government, but no diplomatic exchange. There are also ambiguities that I would like to know. I wonder what you have against the fact that we can discuss a problem in peace. If there are no accusations and if there has been no political abuse, then you have every reason to "wash" us over a committee of inquiry, and we would of course take note of this in this case. But so irritated to show and say: No, we do not want to discuss this any longer, because nothing can be discussed at all! I do not think it is right, because there is nothing to discuss, Mr Ex-Minister Löschnak, I dare to doubt. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lösnak: Do you want to talk about it in peace? – You want a whirl!]] Federal Minister A. D.! I have 5 minutes and therefore I have no opportunity to have a detailed debate. They themselves have given instructions that have not been followed. We cannot therefore say that there has been no influence on the part of the government. Of course, there has been such a thing, and I would be very surprised if the officials had chosen their own way of doing so in such a critical case. That is why I would like to clarify this. I believe you can do anything, but let's have time to discuss it, and don't be so irritated. 5 minutes just don't fit us. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] The Iranians offered to the Vienna judicial representative that both suspects could be agreed in Iran. That means, in Iran, of course, they are known, and the authority knows where they are to be taken. I quote the "standard" of 1. 1. 1992 - so that you don't believe I'm inventing something - that the judicial authority has rejected it for reasons of principle. Advocate General Mayerhofer delivered his Opinion at the sitting of the Full Court on Thursday: No one was willing to go there and not put this very stable situation to the test. There is a message, Mr Minister, where these officials could have agreed. It also says: A certain nervousness is spreading to the SPÖ managing director. Andreas Rudas is strongly opposed to a Committee on the Enlightenment of Kurds. – I quote the "SN" of the 16th century. 4. 1997; I mention this so that it does not lead to misunderstandings. – He was press spokesperson of Interior Minister Blecha and one of the first to be informed of the Noricum's cannon business. This can be seen in connection with the fear of economic sanctions that were pronounced at the time. In addition, Iran's ex-President Bani Sadr said that Mullahs threatened to announce details on the Noricum canon end. – As far as my quote is concerned. Please, this man has been heard in Berlin during the "Mykonos" process. Why don't we have the opportunity to discuss this seriously here? Why are you so nervous? If you have something to hide, then refuse. If you have nothing to hide, you agree.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e13753	The next item is the speech by Mr Anschober. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e13775	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In Germany, murderers are sentenced. [[Abg. May. Mühlbachler: But from the court, not from a parliamentary committee!]] In Vienna is escorted to the airport. – These are the words of Helen Ghassemlou, the widow of the Kurd guide, who was murdered in 1989 with his friends in Vienna. I am glad that she is attending this debate as a person concerned, and I would also like to welcome her. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! These words of the widow put the matter to the fore. I was personally shocked at how Mr Leikam is working here with foglights, how this is tried to delay, throw away, blur the contours. Mr Leikam! It's not about the "Mykonos" act alone. There are countless Austrian police and judicial acts that you only need to look at, for which you only have to be interested, which prove that it has not been done with right things here. It is on this issue, and I am deeply convinced that one of the darkest chapters of Austria has been in recent years. Since "Mykonos" and since the Berlin "Mykonos" judgment, it has also been about a chance to give Austria a new chance that it will actually come up with a reconnaissance. It is interesting that two of the three ministers concerned are here today as Members of Parliament: Mr Mock and Mr Löschnak. Both could contribute to the discovery of truth in a committee of inquiry. I am convinced that this would be very interesting. We reported a number of witnesses last week after the "Mykonos" judgment. We have new files on the table. We have already begun to present and publish some of these files. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! What is now being drawn up as a line of defense, namely that it has been sad pans to deal with unfortunate police troops, is now excluded. These documents clearly show that there have been political backgrounds for the escape of the murderers of Vienna, and this must be enough for a parliament, for a national council, for the elected mandates to allow the investigation to clarify the political backgrounds for this discharge. There are therefore only two possibilities for me: Either it is true what Bani Sadr said recently in an interview before the "Mykonos" process, namely that there was a cross-link to the Noricum procedure and to the kick-back payments to Austria, or it was a preliminary obedience of the Austrian authorities. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Ghassemlou said another sentence important to me today: It's never too late for the truth. That's exactly what it must be about after eight years – nearly eight years after a state terrorism in Vienna, nearly eight years after a situation in which Austrian authorities helped and helped to get the terrorists out of the killers. Eight years later, it is finally high time to inform a committee of inquiry to allow this committee of inquiry. I say the following to you: We shall not give any rest after this vote today. In the light of this situation, this information situation is now only a matter of time until this political information comes to this committee of inquiry. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The former President of Iran has formulated two very decisive sentences on Austria's role, and I would like to make this very brief to you at the end of the day. Bani Sadr said: I would call it a disaster. Austria has bowed down to extortion and let the perpetrators run, although their connections to the Iranian state were obvious. If Austria now wants to restore its moral integrity, the truth must be revealed. This is the fault of Vienna's survivors, even if the perpetrators can't be captured today. – There is nothing to add to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e13812	No one has been reported in the word anymore. That concludes the debate. We shall vote on Mr Moser's request for the setting up of a committee of inquiry. I ask the ladies and gentlemen to take their seats. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to give their approval to this request to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. Request for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e13849	We shall continue to negotiate the request made by the honourable Member. Stadler on the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry on the responsibility in connection with the failed persecution of the murderers of Abdul Rahman Ghassemlou, Fadel Rasoul and Abdullah Ghaderi-Azar in Vienna and the escape of the further suspects of Ebergassing. Since this request has now been distributed to all Members of Parliament, it does not need to be read by the author. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e13900	We are now going into the debate. For reasons of reasons, the first speaker has 10 minutes of speaking time available, all other speakers each 5. Members of the Federal Government and State Secretarys should not speak for more than 10 minutes. I give the applicant, Mr Mag. Stadler, the word. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e13927	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! We have already explained at the previous item on the agenda the reasons why a committee of inquiry would also be set up in the Mykonos causa and in the Causa of the missing perpetrators on Ghassemlou and the further victims from 1989. But the problem is a more comprehensive one, a bigger one, because Austria, among other things, is increasingly experiencing terrorist attacks because it is terrorist organisations, partly with the support of Parliamentary parties in this House. Mr. Leiner shakes his head. He did not know that the PKK was banned in Germany as a terrorist organisation. There must be no wonder when Austria suddenly becomes a field of activity of terrorist activities, and there is no wonder that when other states suddenly send their killers to Europe to eliminate annoying opponents of the regime. That must be examined, ladies and gentlemen. It is also important to examine which Parliamentary Secretarys which intimate links, which Party Secretarys have which intimate connections and which politicians have which intimate links with various organizations in that country which would in themselves be undesirable here. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In both cases, it is pretended that the courts are active. The courts have taken action in Germany and have passed a judgment which leaves nothing to be desired in terms of clarity. In Austria, ladies and gentlemen, only with the claim of protection that the courts are active will prevent an investigation by Parliament, because, as we can take out the "Kurier" today, says Federal Minister Michalek, there is no court proceedings at all. There is no judicial procedure at all because there can be no court proceedings about whether one can blame the authorities for misbehavior and because there is no court proceedings against the perpetrators until Iran does not hand over the alleged perpetrators. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! And now the coalition is talking about a court case that, according to the Minister of Justice, there is no such thing as a trial. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Leikam.]] Yes, Mr Leikam, have you not read today's "Kurier"? You should take a look at what your minister says. I can quote you. The Federal Minister says: However, that light can be brought into the darkness of the affair on this path is almost impossible. – According to Minister of Justice Michalek, there are no judicial surveys of a misbehavior of the authorities, and there would be a trial of the actual act only if Iran delivered the three suspects. Teheran, however, persistently refuses, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Unheard of!]] There's never a trial! And the House is told that the courts are on the train, so Parliament should wait until the courts have carried out an investigation that will never exist. [[Intervocations with the liberals and counter-calls at ÖVP and SPÖ.]] In what way do you actually try to prevent this House from exercising its right of inquiry? How do you try to bring this high house around on the nose? The government says there is no court proceedings, and the coalition comes out and says the courts are on the train. Ladies and gentlemen! It's nothing but a secret game because you have to cover up. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would also be interested in what the once "best man of the FPÖ in the Federal Government", Mr. Ex. Lösnak, would have to say to the Causa. Mr Löschnak! I would be interested to see why in the last phase of your ministerial activity you replaced that man as Chief of Staff, who is severely burdened by the widow of one of the murdered, by Dr. Susanne Rasoul-Rockenschub, in yesterday's "Kurier". The lady says no more and no less than that Mr. Stapo-Chair Dr. Kessler shielded her from the investigations, ladies and gentlemen. The Chief of Staff, who had nothing to do with the act and not the investigations, for this was a completely different department, shields a chief tax witness, and in the meantime, the suspected suspects, Mr. Federal Minister a. D., are fleeing! I'd like to know what you're saying. Why don't you have the courage to get out of here today and say what your motivations were to stop Mr. Oswald Kessler, who is severely burdened by the widow of one of the killers? He's your comrade, as I know, Mr. Leikam. But once again you should show comrade fidelity and help the rule of law to break through, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] He is severely burdened by the widow of one of the killers who says he has shielded her. In the meantime, the perpetrators were expelled, and she was excluded from the investigations as the main burden witness. Ladies and gentlemen! That's what the widow of a person concerned says. And then I would be interested in the role of this ominous man, who obviously was also in the Ebergassing Attendat – this is now writing to you a more close weekly newspaper – V-Man of the Ministry of the Interior, so apparently also of Dr. Kessler, who had to deal with the perpetrators there. And see: Again, a suspected perpetrator travels, not to Iran, but to Mexico, where Mr Purtscheller is at home, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to know once and for all how it is in this police that whenever Mr. Kessler has his fingers in play, the suspected perpetrators leave? They're all fleeing! Mr. Federal Minister A. D., what do you say about these accusations? I raised these allegations at the time in 1995 after it became known who was suspected of being fellow perpetrators. At that time the Minister of the Interior accused me of warning Mr Bassam Al-Taher – he will soon be a. D. – that I would have warned Mr. Bassam Al-Taher. I would like to ask a committee of inquiry, I would like to say why we came up with the idea of leaving this man. Today exactly the same weekly magazine writes exactly that theory, ladies and gentlemen: He was V-man of the Ministry of the Interior, the suspected master, who obviously has to do with the Kurd scene and the Dev-Sol scene, another terrorist organization from Turkey, and the suspected suspect, Bassam Al-Taher, was allowed to disappear. That's what you're talking about, ladies and gentlemen. Two years ago I was accused of lying here, but now it turns out... – Please, I may ask for a very strict silicon! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Löschnak.]] Finally, the Minister of State a. D. breaks his silence. Mr Federal Minister, now say You've got something to do with this: What's the matter? – It is a newspaper close to you, the entire "Worker Newspaper" editorial is there. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Now she's close to us at once!]] Mr. Federal Minister A. D., is it true what's in there? What happened in your ministry? I said two years ago that they had this man leave, just like in connection with the murder of Ghassemlou and the other victims. And now it turns out that again, in the circle of Dr. Kessler, strange things are happening, and the perpetrators are only disappearing abroad as they need it, ladies and gentlemen. What are these processes? These operations should now be examined. They can no longer stand in front of the public and say: That's not all that German courts say! That is not true everything that has long been known in the public! That is not true, what is claimed in several newspapers – it is not the only newspaper in which this is claimed – namely, that one lets assassins and perpetrators disappear, that is all that is not true! Only Dr. Kessler, who is always protected, plays an obscene role, heavily burdened by a widow, hard on me until today, ladies and gentlemen, in no way to conduct an investigation. It would interest me to see what political backgrounds there are for Mr Kessler to shield a witness, according to his own statement, so that the investigations in a threefold murder case are difficult to prevent, ladies and gentlemen. This is an incredible accusation to a high-ranking confidant of former Interior Minister Dr. Löschnak. Dr. Lösnak, would you not like to justify yourself? You now have the opportunity to do so during the debate. Come out! If you have nothing to hide, you step out and tell us why the perpetrators are fleeing abroad as they wish and desire, and what Dr. Kessler, whom you have set off, plays a role in this. You can explain this to the House once! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That is why we should also go into an investigation, because a judicial investigation of this incident will never occur after the Minister of Justice has been informed. You will not continue to lead the public and Parliament around, Mr Leikam! Your own Minister of Justice says the opposite of what you claimed here. [[Abg. Leikam keeps a copy up.]] Don't show any papers, agree to an investigation, and then you'll probably be able to evaluate your papers differently!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e14026	Mr Murauer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I would remind you that speaking time per speaker is 5 minutes from now on. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e14048	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! To this sad chapter of the murder of Kurds or the escape of suspected perpetrator of Ebergassing, we should preserve the seriosity of the speech, should we strive to remain objective and give any political considerations to political capital. I would like to remind you that the German courts have passed a judgment in the Mykonos trial and brought about clarification. We believe that in Austria we could do this exclusively with committee of inquiry, but only with a committee of inquiry, as Mr Stadler would have liked, otherwise it would not be possible. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Just like Noricum!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Platter has already pointed out in the matter of the murder of the Kurds that, of course, time has passed and we now have more and other insights which we cannot come to the table. That is why the Minister of Justice has also spoken about resumption, and he will do so. And we know that it was a particularly delicate and difficult situation for our executive officials who had to carry out the investigations, and I would also like to say this on this occasion to those who were entrusted with the investigations. Ladies and gentlemen! The EIA is opposed to a committee of inquiry when a criminal procedure runs parallel to that. We must give the courts and the authorities the appropriate confidence and cannot say: In view of the fact that we do not agree with any progress or supposed assessment, we must immediately set up a committee of inquiry, because we can work there better and more efficiently. The courts are invited, and we trust in the judgment of the courts. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Barmüller.]] To escape the suspected perpetrators of Ebergassing, I would like to say the following: There are, of course, parallelities, there are still international arrest warrants, and there is a pending judicial procedure. It was already known that there was a third culprit, probably Bassam Al-Taher. At the time, however, it was meant to have to be on the public scene accordingly. Mr. Stadler – he has mentioned it to God himself – once announced the name in a press conference, so that any suspected perpetrator could look for the space. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You don't even know each other!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: You are incredibly uninformed!]] I strongly doubt that it is the right way to force arguments and warrants on such sensitive issues on media and in the public. I think that the opposite should be the case in the event of a reconnaissance. I would like to mention this in the middle of the order. The Austrian... – My God, your imagination and mine! [[Abg. May. Stadler: The theme exceeds your imagination!]] You always judge everyone else in your arrogance, Mr. Stadler. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Yes, I do! Because you make it easy for me too!]] You'll be a little in front of your own door, too. There's enough to come! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] It's nice to always play the lawyer diaboli here. They feel really excellent in this role. It is also for you, you make the impression, but you do not confuse me, and if you still scream so loud, both from your bank and here at the speaker's desk. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You're already confused!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Mr President! Does the Lord have time to speak?]] Mr Stadler, it's funny, your entertainment value is really very important. Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately God's discussion in this situation slides to a level that no one would want, especially the Austrian People's Party and I too. We are against this parallel to the leading committee of inquiry, because we do not want to influence anyone in this parallelity and to assign trust to the courts accordingly. I can conclude by saying that, if there are any inconsistencies, the National Council will become effective and a committee of inquiry will be convened.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e14210	Mr Scheibner is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e14231	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Murauer said that he was serious in this discussion, and at the same time he meant that he had nothing against it – he was also a previous speaker of the government groups – that if there were inconsistencies, Parliament would initiate investigations – if there were inconsistencies! Mr Murauer! What are the inconsistencies to occur? What are the inconsistencies in these cases, then, that you will be prompted to agree to this committee of inquiry? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Murauer.]] What Inconsistencies Need Are you still if criminals are not only released, but are even given guidance protection so that they can get to safety abroad, and only a few days after the arrest warrants are launched? What inconsistencies, do you think, should still occur, such as in this arrangement with the Abu Nidal group, which is now being discussed? – At the time, it is said that there was an agreement between the security authorities and this terrorist organisation that one has signalled: Please, do not do any actions in Austria, for this we will not only allow your support points, but we may also support and organize and release the offenders in the Nittel murder at an early stage!, which has also happened. Mr Murauer! Are there any more inconsistencies you're waiting for? Is there any inconsistencies with Noricum, Lucona? There were deaths, too, Mr Murauer: Lütgendorf, Amry. Are these not enough inconsistencies that can now be seen from a new perspective through this knowledge of the court? Ladies and gentlemen! Here we are talking about seriality, but we also say: We want to clarify, but we are waiting for the court's decision. At the same time, however, we hear that there will never be such a decision, because it cannot exist, because there are no investigations at all, because there is no longer any procedure, because these accused will remain in the safe port of their home country and will certainly not be delivered, and that, as I think, Austria has no interest at all in such a procedure. Mr Murauer! What inconsistencies expect You're still here, aren't you? What court procedure do you want to wait for to agree to such an investigation committee? What remains, ladies and gentlemen, of the government? – It is always the same: When it comes to – not just criminal matters – the political responsibility to find out the political backgrounds of such things in such inconsistencies, you make the wall for the responsible person! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is not a question of Parliament taking on criminal competence, but it is a question of being a control body of the Federal Government in order to clarify these inconsistencies, Mr Murauer. Because what else is left? – The newspapers already write about it. In tomorrow's "Kurier" it says: The police helped the Kurds. – This remains as a headline: The Austrian police helped the Kurds. The "Salzburger Nachrichten" write: "The rejection of the investigation committee is probably for good reason." – Then it is not only suspected that the SPÖ and the People's Party would have the responsibility for these things, and of course they have no interest in such an investigation committee, that perhaps other things could happen, such as the Noricum and the Lucona affair, as the former President of the State Bani Sadr holds in a "Kurier" interview tomorrow. Read what's here! – All these are things that will deeply harm Austria’s reputation and will also shake the Austrians’ confidence in the politics of this state and the rule of law. Bani Sadr says that the government's claim that there has been no influence and no pressure on Austria is completely absurd. He says: The Austrian authorities allowed the killers to run despite the overwhelming burden of evidence. The Austrians have not only been pressured by Iran with the threat of exposing the Noricum affair, but also the Austrians with the knowledge of the Authority are the centre for illegal European arms exports to Iran. Ladies and gentlemen! These are allegations of the greatest scope. You sit here and say, We already want to clarify, but only when a non-existent trial is completed! There is really only the presumption that these facts correspond to reality and that you actually have something to hide. – If that is not what we all hope for, then you agree with this committee of inquiry so that the shadow of suspicion will not remain liable throughout the Republic!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e14299	Mr Moser is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e14321	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The Members of the Government have come out and, I would like to stress this, have not put any arguments against this committee of inquiry! [[Intervocations of the Freeman towards SPÖ.]] Mr Leikam, Mr Platter, Mr Murauer. You didn't make any arguments. They came here and blamed us – I wrote this along – we performed a transparent game. Mr Leikam! You know what we want? We want political responsibility to be clarified in this context. We want to know within the framework of a committee of inquiry what the responsible Federal Ministers, from the Minister of the Interior to the Minister of Justice to the Foreign Minister, actually knew about the links between these attacks. We want to hear that the accusations raised against Austria cannot be voted and dissatisfied. We want the reputation of our country to be restored. Ladies and gentlemen! With your "wall" you prove the rule of law, you provide the Republic of Austria as the rule of law with a "Bärendienst". On the other hand, we will see with all clarity! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Mr Leikam! They explain here that we would claim that no investigations have been carried out. - No, that's not true! We are against the way it has been determined. We want to point out what mistakes have been made in the investigation by the police authorities or by the judicial authorities and who was responsible for them. I took out the 1989 newspaper reports. Mr Leikam! This too might have been interesting to read. Here's what it says: The massacre's wiredriver is suspected in Iran. – Kurd murder: Iranian diplomat has disappeared. - Police are now pursuing a hot trail. – Kurd murder: Search for the sixth man. – State police against justice. – Compatriots despite serious suspicion on the free foot. – Scandal at the warrant for the Kurds. – This was the report in 1989. I read the following point: "Police pans reason for persevering silence? Arrest warrants against Iranians!" I quote from it: "Now it should be clear..." – Mrs. Colleague, listen to me, that was 1989. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] We want this to be clarified. We want the accusations that stand against our country, the judicial authorities and the police authorities in the room to be removed and their reputation restored. This can only be done within the framework of a parliamentary committee of inquiry, because, as the Minister of Justice said, there can be no information from a court. Therefore, political responsibility can only be clarified within the framework of a parliamentary committee of inquiry. I'm still reading to you about what happened on 19 November. It was written in July 1989: "Now it should be clear why, after the Kurds last week, the Vienna State Police is in silence: Not because of the ‘risk of the investigation’ or because the act depends on it’ (Hofrat Liebhart zur KURIER), but rather to hide pans in your own work! Two "Kronaugen" of the massacre, which have been dispossessed from the prisoners, are now being sought by arrest warrant." These are the true failures about which it is going and which it is necessary to clarify to bring clarity into the past. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Murauer says that the procedure will be resumed if the judgment in Berlin is delivered. In many questions, you just wait for what comes from abroad. In security policy, we are waiting for how NATO, the WEU and the EU decide. Then Austria will understand. Our dishes await what comes from reports and information from Germany, for example from the Berlin court, and then we will become active again. Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! I would ask you to read the answer to the parliamentary question! Read this article that we all got! If you have read these, I cannot imagine, Mr Leikam and Mr SPÖ and Mr ÖVP, that a committee of inquiry would not be justified and that the "evil" opposition would only be a bad political game. Ladies and gentlemen! We believe that it is absolutely necessary for this committee of inquiry to be set up. Only Parliament can make it clear, only Parliament can clarify political responsibility as such. As a Member of this Republic, we owe our country that clarity is brought into this case and that the accusations raised against our country are removed internationally, but also domestically, and once and for all are eliminated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e14409	Mrs Mag. Mag. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Kammerlander. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e14430	Mr President. One of my previous speakers said we don't want to move at a level that nobody wants. – I can only agree with that. But I am all the more surprised by the stubborn attitude of the SPÖ and the ÖVP seven years after this terrible attack and the fact that seven years later they are still not willing to solve unexplained questions. If you say there is no evidence, there is nothing new, then I have to tell you, look through the 1989 press release. It was already a few weeks after the attack that it was clear that serious crimes occurred in the surveys and that things happened that obviously did not agree and that there was no cure for them. As early as the end of July, in the media, in APA broadcasts, it was found that, instead of arrest warrants, the crime suspects at the airport were given the guidance that this request had been submitted to the Iranian Embassy. In 1989 the press and the public were already wondering about it. In 1989, shortly after the attacks, the then Iranian ambassador thanked himself for showing so much willingness to cooperate on behalf of the Austrian Federal Government. What does that mean? – That there have been obvious links between the Iranian Government, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice. As early as 1989, the media, the APA has written quite clearly that there are these links and that they are urgently in need of information. Now we are faced with new facts, now we know from the Berlin judgment, from the testimony of former President Bani Sadr, that there has actually been an immediate link, that there has been an extortion by the Iranian government against the Austrian Government and that it has given up this blackmail. We also know that the whole thing has gone through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, that there is a direct link between Austrian foreign policy and Iran and the behaviour of the Austrian authorities on this issue, the conduct of the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice. And we, the opposition, do not want anything but to finally clarify this area to fix this flaw. That's nothing we're inventing. This is something that has been written in all international newspapers since the Berlin judgment. That's something you can read in all the international newspapers. It clearly states that Austria did not have the courage in 1989 but let the suspects go, left and even led them to the airport, acting with "windy" excuses. This is a flaw that lies in this country that we have corrected which we want to examine. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Ebergassing! Ebergassing!]] Mr Haider! They mention Ebergassing. . I have nothing against it if there is an investigation committee on Ebergassing, nothing at all. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Very good!]] I'm just telling you one thing: We will agree to your request, because for us the Enlightenment is in the foreground. But with your blending of these two areas, with your armoring of the two areas serve [[Abg. Dr. Haider: They are the same organizations that are affected by it!]] It is actually the interest of the Federal Government to conceal this. I would immediately use my own investigation committee on Ebergassing, right away – why not? I would have the highest interest in this because I believe and I am convinced that there would be a great deal of clarification in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e14494	Mr Löschnak, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e14516	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! As always, Mr Stadler, when he throws nebula grenades, has thrown the terrorist attacks against exiles in Austria in July 1989 and the terrorist attacks in Ebergassing into a pot. I would like to point out once again that I am speaking here of allegations of the terrorist attack against exiles on 13 March. In July 1989 I was concerned about terrorist attacks in Ebergassing, because I simply lack the basics, and without any basics I have never spoken and I do not want to speak in the future either. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: There you were no longer ministers!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: There you were no longer ministers!]] - On the one hand. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: There you were no longer ministers!]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: He was no longer Minister!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: There he was no longer Minister!]] Secondly, Again and again, there is the fact that there is a Berlin judgment in which, according to Mrs Kammerlander, Austria has a heavy taste. I would ask you to submit this judgment to us once and to quote from this judgment, to see what the flaw for Austria is in. For I am exclusively a press release of the Senate Administration for Justice of Berlin, 10th century. ==References== The process is described very in detail on a total of seven pages, and there is a paragraph in which the word "Vienna" and the terrorist attack in Vienna are described on 13 March. It was mentioned in July 1989. And I'd like to read this paragraph to you. But then you should come out, Mr Anschober, first you have raised such serious accusations, and read your judgment before us so that we can know what the flaw is in. So I quote literally from this press release: "That's why these persons were also observed and fought in exile by Iranian intelligence. The DPK-I was one of its most important objects of investigation, as was the case with a television interview by the Iranian Minister for Information and Security... of 30 June. The Commission's proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to turnover taxes. – The homicide attack in Vienna was on 13 March. ==References== – "To silence this voice, Iran's political leadership decided not only to fight the leadership of DPK-I politically, but to liquidate it. The killing of the then chairman of the DPK-I Dr. Abdul Rahman Ghassemlou and two of his confidants on 13 March. The consequences of this decision are in Vienna on July 1989, as well as in the act condemned here. The red thread, which connects the events of Vienna and Berlin, is unmistakable. It must be ruled out that they are due to conflicts among Kurdish opposition groups." – End of this news release of the Berlin Senate Administration of the 10th century. ==References== Now tell me where the taste has been given in this press release, which you have been carrying through the country for days, so that we can focus on it. I therefore believe, in order to conclude this part, that it is very likely that a rule of law would be in place to have the written statement of judgment and, with this written statement of judgment, to study the process of the Berliners, the three-and-a-half years process, where there are, in fact, points of connection to the Kurds' murders on 13 March. ==References====External links==* Official website Ladies and gentlemen! High house! A second finding, namely, in the course of the investigations: At the time, I have already said, and I am not saying today that there has also been some kind of panic within the executive or in the interplay between executive and justice, which certainly has not led to the necessary rapid investigation. However, as far as your claim is concerned, which you are putting primarily in the room and which is to be carried out in public, namely that political action has been taken and that the political reasons are based, I must now ask you: Come out, call a name, put a paper on the table, and prove by that I have given political direction in this procedure! You have to do that once, and then you have the right to criticize us! But it's not about throwing nebula grenades and putting something into space that you can't really prove because it just didn't happen and just didn't happen! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. I'll come to the end. Of course, in such a causa that has moved the public, there have been several discussions between the Foreign Minister, the Minister of Justice and me. But these were always discussions that were carried out to advance the surveys and investigations in order to clarify the matter accordingly. But there were never talks – I can say that from my point of view, both to Mock and to Foregger – in which any of us would have said three, there would have been anything outside of anyone that we should drop under the table or what it meant to hide. That is why I must conclude, at least for myself, but I believe, that the two others are also: I really do not let a 17-and-a-half-year-old belonging to the Federal Government make such things ready, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e14612	The terms and conditions provided for in business regulations are exhausted. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request made by Mr Magn. Stadler on the establishment of an investigative committee. In the event of your consent, I ask you for a sign to be given. – This is done by the minority. The request is therefore rejected. Request for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e14651	Finally, we are entering the debate on Mr Anschob's request to set up a committee of inquiry on the responsibility of members of the Federal Government in connection with the free exit of the perpetrators concerning the murder of Dr. Abdul Rahman Ghassemlou and two of his relatives. This application has also been distributed. There is no reading by the writer. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e14697	We are going into the debate. As far as time limits are concerned, I refer to what I have said before. Mr Anschober is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). – A 10 minute speaking time is available to you. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e14724	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! There has been a good one-hour discussion here since then – last but not least the ex-minister; it would be fine if the second ex-minister also took the floor – that there is no evidence in this causa, and secondly that the authorities should now be allowed to work. Seven years after the attacks it is said: Now we have to let the authorities work so that the matter can be clarified, and a committee of inquiry would be, if we were honest, at this stage – we actually hear this from every question we want to clarify – something difficult. Now I'm telling you: From the point of view of the dossier it is very clear and clear that these authorities have worked and that it is precisely the result of this work, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Call the SPÖ: Which files? Which files?]] That's the point! [[Abg. Dietachmayr: You're talking about files that don't exist at all!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] These authorities have worked and this work, which has led to the escape of state terrorists, and the political background to clarify the causes of this work by authorities. [[Abg. May. Posch: Which files, Anschober?]] [[Abg. Oberhaidinger: There are no files or facts!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If from the left side of this house is called so much according to facts, na please nice, like a short chronology of events: And I'll ask you if you don't have a little Spanish in there. [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Perhaps you have the kindness to take a brief look at the facts: 13. July 1989: the attack in Vienna, 14. ==References====External links== July 1989: Obduction results are available in the most important areas. The contradictions in these obductive results are so blatant that the imposition of arrest would be natural. It is not necessary to impose this arrest. ==References== On the same day, July 1989, instead, there will be an interesting process, namely the acceptance of the second likely, according to the Director-General for Public Security, of safe perpetrators. Five days later, on 22. July, the situation is as follows, and I would like to briefly quote you from an act of Act 400/IIIa/15/89: "Ambassador Schmid of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs announces to the Department of Journalism that against the terrorist attack on 13 March. 7. In 1989, Iranian citizens were accused of murder threats by Djafar Sahraroodi. According to Dr. Schmid, a head premium is exposed to Sahraroodi. The position of a protective and accompanying service is requested by the Embassy." Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! On that day, a observation report by Kessler, then head of the EBT, was published. Mr. Minister, you'll know him! On behalf of the then Chief of Staff Schulz, Kessler observed how the perpetrator was escorted by a police escort to Vienna-Swechat Airport and started with the machine to Tehran at 7 p.m. In this observation report, Kessler points out that a delegation from Iran, which had been in Vienna for two days and which had been withdrawn from the Iranian Embassy with large file deposits, had deported the defendant from Vienna – under police supervision, under police control, although the findings of the presumption have shown that the statements of Sahraroodi are wrong, and at that time prove to be false. Seven days later: Further interventions, instructions, pressure, and obstacles to investigations are needed. And now a big time jump... [[Abg. Marizzi: What instructions?]] – Mr Marizzi calls for proof of the guidance given. I'll give you this proof. 29. November: There is a letter from the Foreign Office indicating that there have been massive interventions by the Iranian Embassy in the foreign office – the Foreign Minister will a. D. will know this letter – that the checks of the Iranian Embassy, in which the second prosecutor has hidden himself, are too strict. – Mr Mock! They will confirm this. And on the same day, there is an instruction from the General Director for Public Security, Danzinger, that this security of the Iranian Embassy, in which the second prosecutor found himself, must be withdrawn. This is a very clear development: Intervention of the Iranian Embassy, letter from the Foreign Office, directions from the Director-General to his officials – these were the instructions you wanted, Mr Marizzi! – and the security and control of persons will be withdrawn. And what happens "surprisingly" a day later? The second suspect – oh, surprise! – departs from the embassy due to the withdrawn checks on persons and leaves this country. So, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen, if this is a correct approach, if it is the most efficient campaign for state terrorists, and if you, Mr Löschnak, were only as pans, then I have a different view of pans, because then it would have been a panic that the foreign office would respond to a letter from the Iranian Embassy, then it would have been a panic that the Director-General for Public Security would give his officials a warning that the checks on persons should be withdrawn, and then it would have been a panic that this evil suspect would take advantage of the reduced checks on persons and leave the country – nothing can be done. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The investigations were continued. The speakers from ÖVP and SPÖ are right. How did they proceed? There was a request for legal aid to Iran in October 1990 – a three-quarters year after the international arrest warrant against the two potential perpetrators had been issued. – Do you know, ladies and gentlemen, when the Iran response came? Not in 1990, not in 1991, not in 1992, not in 1993 – in October 1995. And this answer – after five years! – a request for legal aid consisted of six sentences, namely that the crime is unfounded. These are the investigations of the Austrian authorities. Do you want to continue and argue that this is the replacement for an investigation committee that is the substitute for the clarification of these backgrounds? Do you want to argue this, ladies and gentlemen? I believe that there would be political clarification in any other country at least in Europe on this issue. Only in this Austria. And that is the inconceivable! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It is not – and Mr Van der Bellen pointed out to me first – a tax offence, it is not about a street building scandal, it is about a national affair. This is a question of whether a republic like Austria is viable – yes or no. And that's not a small question. And if this question has been discussed and presented in all international serious media since the "Mykonos" judgment, we, ladies and gentlemen, and I am deeply convinced that it is for this reason alone that we have the responsibility and the obligation to clarify this suspicion. This is only a matter for a committee of inquiry. It would also, Mr Löschnak, be an opportunity for you to state that the investigations have been completely correct if they were. If you don't want the investigations, then there's a false impression. However, we will not give any rest in this regard. Again: It is a matter of time and a question of information material when this Committee of Inquiry is enforced. And we will continue to motivate you with interesting files in the near future to agree to this Committee of Inquiry.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e14832	The next speech is by Mrs Mag. Kammerlander before. I remember that from now on the speaking time is 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e14854	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Löschnak! I would like to give you a statement from you on 25 May. Face it on July 23, 1989. At that time you said that the domestic executive would have done excellent work immediately after the attack. After seven years we are so far today that you see and say there have been pans. In 1989, you have still tried to say, according to the motto of members of the Federal Government: What do you want? There's been excellent work. The arrest warrants took a long time, but the Minister of Justice was responsible for this. – And so the ball – if you follow these 1989 broadcasts now, seven years later, you see it quite clearly – is passed on like a hot potato. But one thing is no longer true today: that the executive has done excellent work. That, we now know, is not right either, and not only because of these facts which my colleague has read to you from the files, but also because of many other findings we have. We know today that the incident, the attack in the apartment, has been quite different than you, as the responsible Minister of the Interior and also the Minister of Justice, wanted to inform the honourable Member in the first few weeks and months after the attack. In any case, that is clarified once. And if the Members of this House say, above all, about the SPÖ: If we wait with the Committee of Inquiry until the inconsistencies are on the table, I wonder: How many inconsistencies still have to be on the table, and how long will you wait until you finally agree to an investigation committee? In 1989 a representative of the Social Democratic Party, Mr Horvath, criticized the response of the Minister of Justice, which you always hold high. She obviously strongly criticized her in a debate on a question - as far as I can understand this today - that she is superficial, inaccurate, sloppy, does not address the actual questions and leaves much open, and above all one - that is interesting - that the then Minister of Justice referred to the state emergency according to § 10 of the StGB. Do you know what this is, the state emergency that the Minister of Justice referred to at the time? It can only be used to justify a criminal offence. That is to say, the Minister of Justice has already admitted that the Republic has committed a criminal offence, otherwise he could never have called upon the concept of a state emergency. But already at that time you did not want to follow these accusations for certain reasons, although you, your group, were still far more critical and active than today. [[to the SPÖ]] If you have nothing to hide and if you don't fear anything and the colleague Löschnak doesn't fear anything, then all the more you have to agree to a committee of inquiry today, the more you should be interested in the fact that these inconsistencies from 1989 and the many who have been added are being resolved. I can imagine that it is not quite that comfortable for the EIA to explain this because, above all, the role of the Foreign Office and the Foreign Minister at that time would and is a very illustrious one. Because – and this is what we want this committee of inquiry to show – there is certainly a direct link to the arms scandals, to Noricum. [[Abg. Kiss: Sure! I'm sure!]] There is no doubt that there is a record of why Austria was particularly strong by an Iranian government and why Germany, for example, has not been able to be subjected to these extortions as the Austrian Federal Government. But if you are so sure that this is not the case at all, then you will agree with this Committee of Inquiry. Voices You can't touch him! But do not believe that you will succeed with the head-in-the-sand policy, with the we-will-nothing-nothing-hearing and we-be-nothing-nothing-hearing. This will make you no longer successful at the latest since the Berlin judgment, and therefore your only option would be to agree to this committee of inquiry and really put the facts on the table, to make statements and to say how that really happened at the time and what was really happening at that time.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e14907	Mr Magistrate has now been reported to speak. Stadler. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e14929	Mr President. High house! First of all, I should like to say that we will also agree with this Green request. On the next occasion, however, we will take the test and take Mrs Kammerlander to the floor and put forward a request for the setting up of an investigation committee in Causa Ebergassing. This is at least as interesting as the matter that is now being discussed. I'm already excited about Your voting behaviour. [[Abg. May. Kammerlander: We have already agreed!]] Mr Collegate Federal Minister Dr. Löschnak has behaved in a very impressive way here because he has taken the floor. I'll tell you in a moment, Mr. Dr. Delete after: I am glad that you have not been prevented by your own clubman from taking the floor after you have plagued colleague Novotny and Klubobmann Khol has started trying to prevent you from doing so. You've gotten through – that's what honors you! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: That's just not true!]] We've seen it: Mr. Nowotny was pissing. But it doesn't matter. Mr D. Dr. Lösnak! We have no reason to doubt your integrity. For us, you are considered a decent man, as a fair minister. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: He's been insulting again!]] Are you still saved? Do you have a contrary opinion from your minister? [[Abg. Dr. Nowotny: But of you we have a different opinion!]] [[Abg. Leikam: There's one who helped out with this speech!]] I am talking about your Minister, Mr Novotny. Your minister out of service is in our eyes a decent person, even if it does not fit you in your limited view of the world. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: You don't need to be praised!]] In our opinion, the Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs, in addition to service Mock, is also a decent person. We do not blame the fact that indecent things have been committed, neither by you, Dr. Löschnak, nor by Mr. Federal Minister other than service Mock. All the more so, Minister of State other than Dr. Lössnak, we were little surprised that you did not mention the name Dr. Kessler once in the speech. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Federal Minister, the reason for this was not a lack of time. You know, because you are a decent person, you do well not to take the name Dr. Oswald Kessler into your mouth once. Dr. Löschnak! The widow of one of the murdered Kurds raises the most serious accusations. The activity and the spirit of Dr. Kessler in this case shows amazing parallels to behaviour that were observed in the Causa Ebergassing, especially since there is a certain Mr. H. Kilic – I do not know if that is the first name or last name; he was already mentioned in the media – via the Dev-Sol, which has good contacts with the PKK, cross-links. That means there are things to investigate that you might already know. As an average parliamentarian and newspaper reader, you may have heard, Federal Minister other than Dr. Löschnak, that in this case things have happened in your ministry which do not burden you, but which charge high officials of your ministry. I'm just saying, The highest officials of your ministry, who are currently serving there, I also consider decent people, but I have doubts as to whether the same propriety and fairness are already displayed on the third or another level. With regard to Dr. Kessler, there is at least a serious accusation, not only of a news magazine, not only of various daily and weekly newspapers, but of the widow of one of the murdered Kurds who was a witness in this trial. She claimed that she was arbitrary by Mr. Dr. Kessler, who had nothing to do with the whole of Causa, was prevented from expressing herself in the investigations in order to prevent the suspected perpetrators from leaving. This remains in the room, and it was right of you, Dr. Löschnak, that you did not mention the name Kessler here. But it would be very interesting in a committee of inquiry to clarify the role of Dr. Kessler in this causa. I know, Minister of State, except Dr Lössnak, that Dr. Kessler has done much in his ministry without the knowledge of the minister responsible. This even applies to your successor. But you should finally have the courage to sit down and say what really happened. That must be clarified! It must all be done that such things can never happen again. That alone is the decisive! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This was also written to Mr Murauer in the main book [[Intrusion of the Abg. Murauer]] There are no judicial investigations. Ask Minister Michalek! If you still haven't noticed: There are no judicial investigations! I don't know what parallel you're floating in here. There are no judicial investigations! The only thing to examine will be to examine this Parliament, namely the role of various top officials in the Ministry of the Interior and the role of bureaucracy, which in this case – as in the case of Ebergassing – has led to the fact that perpetrators could leave. To learn this, not only does Parliament have a right, but the public as a whole, both domestically and abroad.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e15076	No one has been reported in the word anymore. That concludes the debate. We shall come to the vote. I ask the honourable Members to take their place. [[Abg. May. Stadler: ( towards SPÖ) On Friday there is a press conference! What are you doing?]] I would ask you to take the places to vote. We are now voting on Mr Anschober's request to set up a committee of inquiry. In the event of approval, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done by the minority. The request is therefore rejected. Enter President MMag. Dr Willi Brauneder: I declare that in today's sitting, self-employed requests 435/A to 439/A have been tabled. Questions 2282/J to 2302/J were also raised. Request within the meaning of § 99 para. 2 G.G. President MMag. Dr Willi Brauneder: Finally, in connection with the self-employed request 437/A, on the implementation of a special file of the conduct review by the Court of Auditors concerning the conduct of the Federal Ministry of Transport, the High-Performance Stock Company and the ÖBB as regards the economy, efficiency and effectiveness of the Semmering-Basistunnel project, I declare a request by 20 Members within the meaning of § 99 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. As the legal requirements are met, this examination must also be carried out without the decision of the National Council.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00070_d7e15140	The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for tomorrow, Thursday, 17. April 1997, 9 a.m. The agenda can be found in the written communication distributed in the hall. This meeting will be started at Question Time. The sitting is closed.
