ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e1201	Ladies and gentlemen! I can ask you to take the seats. I'll open the 89. Meeting of the National Council. The following Members are reported as preventing today's session: Haller, Dr. Stippel, Dr. Gredler, Dr. Mock, Dkfm. Bauer, Mag. Frieser and Ablinger. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e1232	The Federal Chancellor's Office issued the following communication for today's meeting on a resolution by the President of the Federal Government concerning the representation of members of the Federal Government: Ms Federal Minister for Education and Cultural Affairs Elisabeth Gehrerwerd by Federal Minister Mag. Wilhelm Moltererress. – I would ask you to take note of this. Entry and allocation
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e1262	I declare that the answer to the question has been received 2854/AB. I shall assign to the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs the motion for a resolution (603/A(E) tabled at the last sitting by Mr Ollinger and Mr Comrades on the control of vocational training. Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e1292	In addition, before entering the agenda, I announced that Mr Dr. Hazelsteiner had requested that the Budget Committee report on Amendment 415/A to the Council on a deadline until 31. This year's annual report is to be published in the Official Journal of the European Communities, published in the Official Journal of the European Communities, published in the Official Journal of the European Communities. The motion for a resolution will be put to the vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure after the end of the negotiations. Request for a brief debate on the response to the question 2707/AB
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e1317	I would also like to say before the entry into the agenda that, in accordance with § 92 of the Rules of Procedure, I have a desire to hold a brief debate on the reply to Question No 2707/AB of Question No 2894/J by Mr Scheibner and Mr Comrades by the Federal Minister for Defence. This brief debate takes place in accordance with § 57a para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure at 3 p.m. I would ask you to take note of this. – The Minister of Finance therefore has a short break at 3 p.m. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e1341	In the Presidential Conference, consensus was reached on the duration of the debate, namely: A day-block speaking time of 8 hours has been agreed, resulting in the following speaking times: SPÖ 120 minutes, ÖVP 112 minutes, Freedom 104 minutes, Liberal Forum and Greens each 72 minutes. – As far as the proposal is concerned. Is there any objections to this proposal? - That's not the case. That's what it's decided to do. First reading of the Government template concerning the Federal Finance Act for 1998, including investments (841 and 841 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e1367	We are now going into the agenda, which contains only one point, namely: First reading of the Government's proposal concerning the Federal Finance Act for 1998, including investments. First, Mr Novotny spoke. Please, honourable Member. The speaking time is 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e1392	Mr President. High house! The first reading of the budget will take place at an unusually early stage. This is linked to the fact that, after this budget, we want to decide the 1999 budget already in spring 1998 in order to concentrate on the EU Presidency in the second half of 1998. I would like to thank not only the Federal Minister and his State Secretary for this hard and intensive work, but in particular the officials of the financial unit and all the other officials involved in the preparation of this budget. Thank you for your commitment! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The first reading is in principle the time for a fundamental debate on the budget, with the political side – on the one hand, on the political side – at a later date, in the context of the general debate, my friend Peter Kostelka, when he has another vote and can stand here in Parliament on the floor of the speaker – and on the other hand, the economic side on which I would like to comment on all the soberness today. In order to assess a budget, it is necessary to establish appropriate criteria, usually with three aspects relevant. First aspect: How does this budget fit into the economic landscape? Second aspect: What are the distribution effects? And the third aspect: What are the growth effects associated with this budget? I would like to focus briefly on all three aspects. First of all, to the economic aspect. It can be assumed that the economic situation in Austria has improved significantly. We can expect an increase of 2.4 per cent for the next year, which means that the "growth devils", which we have also suffered from the influence of the international economy, will now be compensated for. This will also lead to an increase in the number of employees in Austria, which, unfortunately, will only have a slow effect on unemployment. It will therefore be a key challenge for us, particularly in the field of employment policy. Ladies and gentlemen, I will deal specifically with this issue. The inflation rate: We have to expect an inflation rate of about 1.4 percent this year – which means that there is virtually no price increase, because this value does not take into account quality improvements – and that area in which the Austrian economy has shown a weakness, the current account, also shows a significant improvement in recent months. All in all, this means: We are at the beginning of a significantly stronger economic dynamic in the Austrian economy. [[Abg. Haigermoser: This is a adventurous thing!]] Mr President, I should like to thank you very much for If you once made the effort to look at the forecasts of the Institute of Economic Research, the IHS forecasts, then you would have... [[Further call of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] These are facts. And I'd be glad if you were dealing with facts. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] These facts are also reflected in the surveys, which show a significantly more positive mood in terms of investment as well as in consumers. I already admit: This more positive mood should not lead to euphoria, but, on the other hand, in this sensitive situation, the economy should not be broken down by black speeches. I think that's an eye measure. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I believe that the budget is properly designed for this economic situation. The initial recovery phase is fully used for budget consolidation. Austria has done so to a particular extent. We had a net deficit ratio of 5 percent in 1995 and will now have a net deficit ratio of 2.6 percent in the 1998 budget. This means that within three years we have almost halved the deficit ratio. There is hardly any other country in Europe where it has succeeded in reducing the budget deficit to such an extent and at the same time maintaining economic and social stability. This is a success that we all, I believe, can stand with. [[New applause with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In this context, I would like to briefly address the following question: Why is fiscal consolidation at all necessary?, and above all – that is often asked –: Why must fiscal consolidation be implemented so quickly and so intensively? It would be too forward-looking to wish to explain this only with Maastricht. In fact, it must be assumed that it is precisely the task of a functioning budget to be able to counter it in times of economic downturn. However, this must also be in line with the fact that the debt entered into it is later consolidated. And in both directions, we have acted properly in Austria. We were prepared to reduce the economic downturn by increasing public debt, which has also led us to continue to have an unemployment rate in Austria, which accounts for less than half of the European average. One must look at the figures in this area, comparable figures, OECD numbers. In Austria we expect an unemployment rate of about 4 percent, in Germany we expect 10.9 percent, in the USA, which is praised by some as a wonderland, it is 5.1 percent higher than in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! These are not abstract percentages, but there are tens of thousands of people behind them who would not have work if Austria had pursued a budget policy as they have pursued other countries. These tens of thousands of people are the ones we are working for, and we are glad that we have a lower unemployment rate. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! But it must be clear to you: This active use of the budget must be consolidated, not least because of the burden caused by interest payments. Interest on the budget increased from 82 billion schilling in 1995 to 92 billion in 1998. That means: Almost half of the wage tax revenue must be used for interest payments. Therefore, it was and is right to use the forthcoming budget in connection with the upturn in the economy for a consistent budget consolidation. It is also right to take advantage of the favourable economic situation in Europe towards the transition to economic and monetary union. Any delay would lead to turbulence that would be negative for the pan-European economy. Ladies and gentlemen! The second point I would like to make is the distribution effects associated with the budget. First of all, I welcome – this is a very up-to-date aspect – the agreement reached yesterday that the Austrian ASVG-pensionists will receive more by 1.33 percent and that 430 million schilling will be provided for compensation recipients. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Everyone would still have liked more, but I think the government has realized what is economically feasible, and above all it - and that is very essential - has shown that it stands for its word. We can also be proud of that. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Ing. Gartlehner.]] [[Call to the liberals: No applause?]] Next point – I have to say that quite openly –: Of course, I would have liked to see other transfer payments increased, such as family aid, the karenz money. Although we spend 51.5 billion schillings on the family sector in Austria alone in the next budget, our social system is pensionable in the international comparison. It will be our efforts to provide additional assistance, especially for children and young families, and it is important – I would like to stress this from the current point of view – that it is aid that actually benefits those who need it. I would like to stress this because we have a discussion on family taxation these days. There is a procedure under way in which a person who obviously has a very good merit wishes to impose some hundred thousand schilling as an extraordinary burden on his family tax. To this end, I would like to say very clearly: I thought it was perverse if we did not value transfers, which benefit about young mothers, but at the same time, well-earned parents who, as it is so well called, subsidized the state-of-the-art maintenance tax subsidized. I very much hope that the Constitutional Court will also have in mind the social impact of different models. In any case, we Socialists will strictly oppose any redistribution from the bottom to the top. I hope that this will also be taken into account. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Do you want to influence the Constitutional Court from here?]] . I would like to make a political opinion here as a parliamentarian, which is my right as a parliamentarian, as I hope you will see it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The third point concerns growth. I cannot go into detail here, colleagues will come to speak on it, but only make a fundamental comment: The main growth conditions for the Austrian economy are, on the one hand, a stable social climate and, on the other, a low inflation rate which allows low interest rates. As far as the social climate is concerned, we have also heard votes in the last few days and weeks, which in my view, the Austrian social security system has very easily declared unnecessary and sometimes even harmful. I can only warn against this development. Especially at a time when production is becoming increasingly capital intensive, when it is important to be able to produce calmly, social stability is an essential factor in growth. A functioning social partnership is one of the best conditions for the location that Austria can have, and we must ensure that we do not damage this situation. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This damage could come both from the outside and from the inside, because from the inside, if entrepreneurs believe that they can today import a neoliberal entrepreneurship into Austria, where the number of workers is only minimized for cost reasons. I think that this is extremely short-sighted in economic terms and I would like to join in positions such as Tony Blair's in England, which represents a short-term shareholder-value-thinking with the concept of the Stakeholder-value, i.e. the company's responsibility for its shareholders, that is legitimate, the responsibility also for employees and for customers. Only then, if we see this overall, will we also come to stable conditions in Austria in the long term. Next point: Low interest rate policy. And then the circle closes to the budget, because if we have lower budget deficits if we can expect participation in the European Economic and Monetary Union, that means the long-term guarantee of low interest rates. Again, this is an essential prerequisite for investment and thus for long-term secure jobs. Just to show the magnitudes again: A reduction in interest rates by 1 percent means a reduction of 15 billion schilling for Austrian companies. This means that the decline in interest rates over the last three years has, for Austrian companies, brought a cost relief of about 45 billion schilling. One has to say quite clearly: This is more important than any single programme we can make. At the same time, of course, we also have a discharge for private households, especially in the housing sector, which benefits young families in particular. I mean, this is a policy we need to continue. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, We do not live in any ideal world, therefore there is no ideal budget that corresponds to all wishes, but the budget we have is a reasonable and honest budget presented by a reasonable and honest Federal Minister for Finance. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] It is a budget that is well-designed from an economic point of view, it is a budget that sets key key points of distribution policy, and it is a budget that forms the basis for long-term secure growth and long-term secure jobs. We will therefore vote in favour of this budget.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e1540	Next, Mr. Dr. Khol has the floor. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e1561	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is the third budget we are discussing in this House within 18 months. This budget is also politically linked to the fourth budget we have designed within 18 months. All four budgets are budgets of the new stability, with all four budgets we have ended the debt rate of the era Kreisky/Androsch. Stability begins! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! With this budget we secure the economic location Austria, the workplace Austria. The restructuring policy that we started with the dish/dez-course and climate is bearing its first fruit. We had an export boom in the first half of this year. We exported 11.2 percent more than in the comparable half year of last year. 55 billion schilling increase – we are proud of that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We secure our social system with these budgets. We must simply bring certain sections behind us, but we do not behave to make as painful cuts in our system as Sweden or Italy, since we have made the necessary corrections in good time. These budgets secure our social system. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! The liberals, the Greens, the Liberals, have called the 1996 and 1997 budgets - I will remind you of this - dwindling budgets. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: No, that was the dish! That was the bowl, Andreas!]] No, you called it a swindle budget, Mr. Hazelsteiner, I'll keep it to you. Mr. Hazelsteiner called it "Schwindelbudget". And I can tell you that the budget...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e1627	Ladies and gentlemen! No one can argue that Dr. Khol is talking. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e1649	I'll show you the quotations from the dizziness budgets if you want. Mr Böhacker spoke about the swindle budget, Mr. Haselsteiner spoke about the swindle budget, Mr. Haider talked about the swindle budget. But: In 1996, we had a much lower deficit than was estimated. [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] In 1997, the budget for Heller and Pfennig will be adhered to. The figures are right, others have dwindled, not we with regard to the budget! Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker has already said it: The economic upturn is coming and being accelerated. And this has nothing to do with the opposition, not even a small word of recognition of facts. "Gentlemen agree on facts" the Federal Chancellor recently said here. If there are gentlemen and gentlemen here, Mrs Schmidt, then they should also recognize facts. The economic upturn is speeding up, the budgets are voting, and we have a new rate of stability! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Hallelujah!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The FPÖ has repeatedly stood out in criticism, and I can only say: The zigzag course of the FPÖ, which the "New Zurich Newspaper" has also worked out very well on Monday, the unforgettable proposals do not surprise me, because those who bring their budget philosophy into courses at American universities that are adapted to the requirements of the Third World, those who make proposals from America on the basis of the Third World budget policy, can only be side-by-side. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP]] [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I take the liberal forum's criticism of many of our ideas very seriously, because the Liberal Forum in its economic knowledge is very often criticizing the compromise character which the social market economy now inhabits; Mr Peter and Mr Hazelsteiner are not going too far. But overall, ladies and gentlemen of the Liberal Forum, your economic policy ideas are simply discredited by your anti-performance, illusionary and equalizing proposals for the reorganisation of our tax system through a basic income for everyone, whether he is diligent or lazy. We cannot take seriously those who believe that we must reinvent Marxism with such naïve and social-romantic proposals today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! Alexander Van der Bellen, I respect your expertise. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Thank you!]] You said in the budget debate a year and a half ago that the figures will not vote. Will it be so?, Will full employment be achieved again?, you asked. They doubted that the budget had been adopted. You have doubts about unemployment development, you have doubts about the economic figures, and you have doubted the development of the interest rate level. However, you have been wrong in all these questions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I cannot take all the others of the Green Group seriously, because here to come to the speaker's desk and to demand for his target groups the good, true, beautiful, more and more, without making the least cover proposal, we can all do so. [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats! I can remind you: For 25 years, ÖVP Finance Ministers held responsibility in this country for state finances, from 1945 to 1970. When we had to put the finances of the state of Social Democrats into control, we had 47 billion Schilling public debt and a budget deficit of 3.2 billion Schilling. In 1995, we had not a budget deficit of 3 billion schillings, but one of 117 billion schillings – after 25 years of Social Democratic Finance Ministers! [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Marizzi and Dr. Novotny.]] We had government debt not at 47 billion schilling, but at the level of 1 833 billion schilling. And the bowl/dez course has put an end to it! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Let me say it by the example of the national lights. My heart is full of bitterness, when I see that we pay 117 billion schilling for those who have not privatized us in time by the year 2017. Today, we pay not 9 billion each year in a barrel without soil, but the successors of the nationalized ones who have been privatized – where are Mr Koppler and Mr Seidinger? –, make 6 billion profits, and they pay their taxes. If we had done this before, if we had been listened to earlier, we would have saved ourselves a lot. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker has already pointed out: With 1.2 percent inflation, we have provided the Austrian consumer with a great service. It feels every family father, every family mother, every one in this country feels that the products have become cheaper, that the price has stopped. [[Abg. Aumayr: A thousand!]] Mrs. Aumayr! I don't know how often you go shopping, I'm going shopping, I know how much today a bluejeans cost and how much they used to cost. I know how much the flour costs, how much the butter costs. [[Abg. Haigermoser: How much does the butter cost?]] I can tell you a kilo. Today flour costs 4.50 p. A kilo of butter costs between 40 and 45 p. It used to cost 80 s. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You can have a kilo today Get flour for 4,50 S, you paid two years ago for a kilo flour between 9 and 11,50 S. I know because my kids eat a lot of noodles. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] [[Calls and appeals to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mr Novotny pointed out – this is very important for all of us – that we have had the lowest bank interest rates for decades. When I had to buy an apartment as a young person, I paid interim interest rates from 9 to 11 percent. Today our young people pay almost half. The interim interest rates range from 5.5 to 6 percent. This is a great contribution to family promotion! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Because of the stability policy I expressly thank the Federal Government and Minister Edlinger, who is an excellent partner, we can take part in the euro from the start. Mr Haider! Do you read English newspapers? – You have a rosarote, but this is not the Financial Times that I would very much recommend to you, because then you would know that the English are discussing at the moment whether they should not take part in the euro from the beginning. You said we should join the euro at the same time as the English. Maybe stay. Do you want to go back to England, or do you go back to the Third World, Mr. Haider? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] For Austria, the euro – estimated by the Economic Research Institute – will bring a prosperity profit of 30 billion schilling. It will also improve the situation on the labour market, i.e. the employment rate could rise again. And if we didn't take part in it – I would like to hear from the liberals – do you know what that would mean for our savers? – The risk of depreciation alone is very high. Look for Sweden, Sweden has had to devalue, 30 percent of its currency has to be depreciated. If we do not join the euro – and the Austrians know that – then monetary stability is at risk, and we reject that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Especially in the euro, the zigzag policy of the liberals, which the "Neue Zürcher Zeitung", which is very objective, is so clearly analysed. In 1995, Mr Haider, the leader of the liberals, complained about Austria's hard currency policy and suggested that we should be a little softer because our economy would benefit from a softer schilling. In January 1995 he said in an interview in the journal "Industriemagazin" published in Innsbruck, Austria should make an independent monetary policy, because the slave bond to the D-Mark is not very blessed. It has brought significant competitive disadvantages to the export industry. We should not have always been involved in the upgradings of the D-Mark – that is, we should have pursued a soft currency policy. And now you're criticizing the euro? How'd you get it? Do you want a hard euro now, or do you want a soft schilling? – We want to secure the income of our savers! [[In the case of the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Kostelka.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The 1998 budget includes an extensive construction and investment programme. In civil and road construction, there are almost 20 billion, in the environmental field 6 billion schilling, in the transport sector, rail infrastructure, telecommunications, high performance lines, a total of 8 billion. And there are 2.6 billion available for the protection of the water industry. This will ensure 52 000 jobs in the long term. That's what the Austrians achieved! We would have liked to see the 6,7 billion schilling that we have to pay every year for the debts of the nationalized people would also be used for investment, because then we could do more. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Headmaster.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Our export offensive is also taking hold. [[Abg. Copper: Stump!]] I remember... Mr President. I would like to take the floor of Mr Koppler, Mr Koppler. [[Abg. Haigermoser: (to the speaker's seat) Mr Khol! Let me give you the butter.]] Thank you. [[Abg. Haigermoser: 18 S the quarter!]] [[Ironic cheerfulness and condolences with the liberals.]] Japan's exports to the EU, which have been doubted by so many, have increased by 23 percent in the course of our accession debate. With regard to car suppliers, as a result of the accession of the EU, the liberals criticised that all of this would no longer go. We now export to the extent of 60 billion schilling alone from the field of car suppliers. – A great performance of our economy! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In the first half of the year we were able to increase exports by 11.2 percent. The hardworking Austrians and the good businesses have caused 55 billion Schilling to flow more to Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Industry's investment activity has increased by 4 per cent in real terms, i.e. we can support our economic recovery, we can secure it. The forecasts are better than we used the budget assumptions, we have just under 3 percent economic growth this year, and next year we will reach 3 percent, I hope. And that is the way to full employment that we all strive for. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have almost stopped the big holes in the budget, in the state finances. And there are different budget philosophy. One of them says that when holes run out – into the Bundesbahn, into the state, into the unemployed – one has to throw so much into the top so that the barrel always remains full, so always increase taxes and taxes. [[Abg. Böhacker: This is your policy!]] – I thank this comparison Günther Stummvoll. We believe that we must stop the holes. We have distributed the federal railway, we have privatized the nationalized. [[Abg. Koppler: But not as you wanted!]] We have fought the abuse of unemployment aid. We have put health care on a performance-based basis. We have stuffed the big holes in the state finances. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! A hole is still open, these are the subsidies to our pension provision, to the pensions. I assume that the Federal Government will take the decisions tomorrow, which we can then discuss in this House and decide in November. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Now to the criticism of the opposition. Mr Böhacker was a member of the European Parliament. In March 1996 the following words were said: "The bird shot down climate when it budgeted the deficit only at 96 billion in 1996. Have you lost any sense of reality? Her predecessor, Minister Lacina, has always dreamed of a budget deficit in the order of 60 to 70 billion schilling. He never reached it. We all know them, these dizziness budgets." - Do you remember? – This time we have a budget deficit of less than 68 billion, and the budgets have all held. [[Abg. Böhacker: But how did you achieve this!]] Take back the expression "swivel budgets". [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Haselsteiner, in a speech in the National Council – he will actually correct it, I am sure, but that is not a correction – I quote, Mr Haselsteiner: "We all know them, these dizziness budgets. They are talking about budget deficits of 90 billion, and there will be 120 billion." Just as with thunderous voice you have said it, I remember: They speak of 102 billion, and there will be 118 billion schilling!!- Oh, my God! - Nothing's right. The figures have kept. The Minister of Finance was right. Come out and make your claim right! I'm sorry, but I'm sure you'll find it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In July 1996, Mr Van der Bellen made exactly these statements, which I have already said: Everything's not right. – Everything is right, deputies! We will therefore make our budgets neat against the statements of the opposition politicians. We will achieve the major structural objectives of this Republic. [[Abg. Wabl: Which one?]] We will participate in the European Economic and Monetary Union, and we will keep our top position as an orderly, socially just, powerful country committed to the social market economy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The era of debt policy is over. – I thank you for the butter.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e2010	Mr Haselsteiner has made a statement on an actual correction. Speech time: 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e2034	Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Klubobmann Khol claimed that I had referred to the 1996 and 1997 budgets as dwindling budgets. That's wrong. In the citation of Mr Vice-Chancellor Schüssel, who admitted to a million-fold audience that he would have had enough of swindle budgets, I suspect that these two budgets could also be swindle budgets.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e2068	From the business management side, there is no reason for an applause for this actual correction. Mr Magnificent came to speak. Trattner.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e2092	Mr President. Mr. Minister of Finance! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Novotny! Just one sentence to you: Are you sure you talked about the 1998 budget? - I don't think so. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr. Khol! For you, it would have failed if you had taken a budget course on Harvard and not a course at the Pradler Knight Games. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: This is an insult to the Pradler Knight Games!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] – Calm down, calm down! In the "Salzburger Nachrichten" – now calm down once, calm down – from 5th. 6. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: This is an insult to the Pradler Knight Games!]] In 1997, Andreas Khol, Klubobmann of the ÖVP, said: "The ÖVP is not responsible for budget creation." [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] ==References== 6. was very big in the "Salzburger Nachrichten": "Khol: We are not responsible for the budget!" [[Renewal hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] You have your department under control, but the Social Democratic Party is responsible for the other. The Minister of Finance is supposed to do this. When it comes to fiscal consolidation, you are responsible if it goes beyond that, the Minister for Finance is responsible. That's a typical statement of Khol. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The Minister of Finance, according to the Constitution!]] Before addressing the 1998 budget, let us look at the 1997 budget. What does the Wifo say about it? – The Wifo says that the 1997 budget will amount to between 10 and 17 billion. You have committed a deficit of 68 billion for the 1997 budget with a re-indebtedness of 2.7 percent, and Wifo says you are in favour of individual estimates. They are in addition to wage tax revenue because the Federal Government's employment policy has not kept what it has promised. That is why wage tax revenue is less than your expectations, as is the case with VAT. You have the problem that you have passed two laws that were unconstitutional, namely the contract and the corporate tax, laws which have partly been repealed by the Constitutional Court. Now you are going back to Parliament with a bill concerning the minimum corporation tax, although you know exactly that this law is likely to be repealed by the Constitutional Court of Justice. These are your uncertainty factors. Another uncertainty is that you have to shoot more than 5 billion to the pensions than you have budgeted. And these 10 to 17 billion are still small, because you know very well that you already have to use tricks for the 1997 budget. You have to use tricks in the 1997 budget by using half of the privatisation proceeds from the sale of the CA shares in the 17 billion schilling order for the return of the ASFINAG debts. This allows you to account for 50 percent of this privatisation revenue, which is not in conformity with Maastricht deficits, namely 8.5 billion, in accordance with Maastricht, and thus close your gap a little more. The next concerns Bank Austria's current shares in the postal investment management, which are to be sold soon. We debated this in the summer. The postal investment company is not able to sell these papers, so this is intended to make ÖIAG. Why do you want the ÖIAG to do this? – If you have the proceeds from the privatisation of the federal shares in Bank Austria sold through ÖIAG or sold to other shareholders on the stock exchange, ÖIAG can pay for debts for which the Federation would normally have to pay. This would have been 3.7 billion in 1997 alone and 5.7 billion in 1998. Getting alone with this trick It is 8.5 billion more in the CA transaction and 3.7 billion more in the transaction with the bank-austria papers. That alone is about 12 billion schilling. And that's why I can say quite easily: This budget – and I am referring to it, Mr Khol – is a swindle budget. That's a swindle budget! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] On the occasion of the last year's budget debate, we have accused climate, your predecessor, of fiscal consolidation being a purely burden package for the population. He has always said that one third are revenue increases, two thirds are expenditure cuts. It has come out that it is exactly the other way round: Two thirds were revenue increases and at best – at best! – a third reduction in expenditure. But I don't even think this one third was realized. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Her predecessor, the current Chancellor, was so bold and did the following: It has added to the expenditure cuts the following items: the licence receipts for the post, the prepayment of the mail, the deduction of profit from the post, the municipal tax of the post. This position, which brought in a total of 13.5 billion Schilling revenue for the federal government, has accommodated it in the cuts in expenditure. The additional burden on pensions of 1.3 billion schilling for farmers and the self-employed has been placed on the reduction of expenditure. Yes, you can easily reach a ratio of 1 : 2. But in fact, it was a little different. The Wifo has already said at the time when the budget was being created, the ratio will be 1 : 1. The Chamber of Labour, which is certainly not the friend of the opposition, has also said in the "AK current" of March 1996, of the 100-billion-shilling package are 46.2 billion more revenue. It's very right what the AK says, it's right what the Wifo says. We have drawn your attention to the fact that if you make a revenue-based budgetary policy a revenue-side fiscal consolidation, next year you will find the reason for disillusionment. Climate left you something. I also told the then Minister of Finance to look at the study of the two university professors Alesina and Perotti. One is from Harvard University and the other from Columbia University. You've made an investigation into what it looks like: Should we make a revenue-side or expenditure-side budgetary policy? The two have come to terms with several model calculations that fiscal consolidation on the revenue side is the worst, and that is why, as one is probably killed in Austria in the short term for 1997, the Maastricht criteria can be reached – you can't even achieve this without these tricks – but in the future it will result in recession, unemployment and further departure from Austria's economic location. We have drawn your attention to this: Make a budget policy, a budgetary policy on the expenditure side! And now we have the 1998 budget. Mr Khol! You have not looked at the 1998 budget, I believe. Mr Novotny! They did not look at the 1998 budget either. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: I have proved to you the opposite!]] They boast of a deficit of 67.3 billion. The pay round is not there, the pension history is not there. The SPÖ in Vienna has had a meeting last week or this week, which we said before we argue with the union, we prefer to make the small solution, then the small solution comes, and in two years we will be restoring ourselves. – But truly, the true budget figures look a little different. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: You said that last year!]] What would have happened if you had observed what climate promised at the last budget debate, namely that there is no third or no other load package. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: 20. 3rd. 1996! Nothing new!]] What would have been? – They came with a load package. So the budget has a deficit of 67 billion. But what's going on? The increase in pensions for farmers and self-employed is 1 billion. The surplus income from the so-called Tschick tax, which you accept fictitiously, amounts to 4.5 billion. The conversion of the payment date for insurance is 1.5 billion. That's where you say, Minister of Finance: It's supposed to pay the insurances. Insurance was granted at the time after they had lifted the car tax that the payment dates would be postponed so that the insurance companies can administer it. Now it's changing again. Who should bear the costs? – In an interview in the 'Salzburger Nachrichten', a colleague close to you, the director of the 'Wiener Städtisch', Sellitsch, said: No, or we'll push it in the basement! "Salzburger Nachrichten": You won't be allowed to. – So the possibility remains one: It is a burden on Austrian policyholders. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They saved 1.8 billion in construction savings. And you put in a very delicious position, and this shows how you want to save and renovate the budget for the year 1998: The tax credits are intended to save euro participation! – It is precisely these prepayments, which have been unjustly made on the basis of the support of the exemption decisions. There you have inserted a position in the order of 15.8 billion schilling under the title of "additional claims and bits of lost charges". Do you know what that is? - You know. These are precisely the too many taxes paid by Austrian taxpayers, the Austrian businessmen on the basis of the support of the exemption decisions, due to the non-payment of the loss premiums. These are tax assets that actually belong to taxpayers, and you have been able to convert these funds belonging to taxpayers to your own revenue. That's really a scandal! And the greatest scandal is that Maastricht allows this. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The further support of the exemption will thus bring you 1.5 billion. But now I'm coming to the Austrian National Bank. Mr Finanzminister! I can well remember the big hall at ÖVP and SPÖ when the liberals said: The central bank has a lot of reserves, and it should be used for employment policy measures or for a real tax reform, and I am referring primarily to the abolition of cold progression. Then I look at the budget: The Minister of Finance has obtained a special dividend, a special profit distribution of 3.1 billion. That means 3.1 billion more than last year. What's the difference? - Now it's all right. But I'm telling you, the difference is the following: We are in favour of withdrawing money from reserves from the central bank or of increasing profit loss, we are for employment policy measures, for tax reform, for eliminating cold progression – but not for stopping budget holes that you have caused! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In order for the circle to close a bit, Mr. Khol, the Ministry of Construction has allocated another 9 billion. Instead of 31, it's only 21 billion now. There's a total package of 40 billion schilling. If you add this 40 billion schilling to the 67 billion schilling, then you come to the effective budget deficit. If you had observed what was promised by the government last year in the budget debate, namely that no third tax package is coming, you would have a deficit of 107 billion schilling, and that is 4.3 percent of the gross domestic product – and not 2.6 percent, as you claim here. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Mr. Trattner! Know the Tyrolean proverb: If the cat were a hen, she would lay eggs!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] Now Mr Novotny has gone; obviously he has insisted that he has spoken about the wrong budget. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: If the ÖVP were a party, it would have votes!]] There are other uncertainties. There is the case before the ECJ on chamber size 1 over 1.8 billion, for which you still have to take precautions. There is also an action before the Constitutional Court concerning the so-called external trade promotion contribution. In this respect, you may also have a lot to do with. Relationship You have obviously already paid back the contributions, and the Chamber of Commerce should return them to you. But it has gone to the Constitutional Court and hopes that one can delay the whole thing a little. The same is true of the Constitutional Court’s judgment in matters of fair family taxation. They believe that the Constitutional Court will take its decision as long as possible. In the last session, I do not think that he has taken a decision, so he will take it further so that you will not be required to make any legal repairs for 1998 or to make a budget available, and you will be able to postpone the total to 1999 or to the year 2000. That's really a piggy!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e2289	Deputies! I would ask you to speak appropriately to the House.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e2307	This is really not right for you to keep funds belonging to the Austrian families and do not pay back to those who are entitled to them due to delay measures. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But what prospects do you have, Mr. Finanzminister? – To have a budget speech You mentioned a perspective: We want to further develop Austria's economic location. The budget is intended to boost economic growth, increase employment, because the fight against unemployment is our most important goal. - What are you doing? Look It looks at what the development of public investment looks like. In the last ten years, public investment has fallen by 15.1 percent from gross domestic product. In 1996, the share of public investment was only 3.1 percent, and ten years ago it was 5 percent. In Switzerland, the share of public investment in gross domestic product is 5.4 per cent – in Switzerland, over which it is so offended because it is not with the EU. Where are your impulses to implement growth effects? Where are your impulses in the field of unemployment? At last you have to create the conditions for the apprentices to get a job. They must create the conditions for us to accommodate the unemployed or reduce the unemployment rate. There were 197,000 unemployed and 9 000 job seekers in September. It's not as simple as it was in the 1970s: At that time, the Works Council of VOEST and the Federal Chancellor were composed. He has said that we are setting up 10,000 apprentices there once and there are 30,000 unemployed people, who we are already somehow subservient, and the whole thing is going to work somehow. – We have experienced the disaster, 100 billion schilling deficit in the government industry, everything has been smashed. Now you don't have this possibility anymore. Create You will finally be able to secure the economic location of Austria and the labour market. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This includes, for example, the tax exemption of unabsorbed profits. I don't understand what's going on at the ÖVP. I don't understand. Your Member in the European Parliament, Mr Rübig, said in a parliamentary debate on 18 November. 9. 1997: I call for the inheritance and gift tax to be abolished at all if one leaves a farm within the family and, of course, that undisbursed profits should not be taxed on the holding. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Khol Andreas!]] - Andreas Khol! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Yes, I hear that!]] What are you doing? – Saying here in Parliament You are something different from your members in the European Parliament. Finally, put these measures in place! Finally remove the cold progression! Make a wage tax reform! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Give back your long-term money to the Austrian taxpayers! Wage tax has increased by 37 percent over the last four years despite a moderate wage increase in linear 2%. They're the big inflation-winner. Give that back to the people! If you use the funds – an increased profit distribution from the central bank or from the silent reserves that are not to be used for monetary policy or need to be used – for a tax reform, then you will secure Austria's economic location or jobs in Austria. If you want to continue the policy of tax increase, the increase in fees, if you want to pursue a policy of budget tricks, then the whole thing will go deeper and deeper, and you will never come out again. Nobody will probably be able to pull this car out of the trash here! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They also know quite well that the budget criteria, the fiscal criteria, 3 per cent deficit ratio and 60 per cent debt ratio, at that time, 1991, have been drawn up, assuming an economic growth of 5 per cent. You know that very well. At that time the governments responded too late. Breuss also said in an interview that not the criteria are to blame, but the governments, not only but also the Austrian Federal Government. She would have had it very easy. We drew your attention four or five years ago: Before joining the EU, finally do your homework! – There were You are not yet in the government, but you are representatives of the government today, and the members of the government have heard our warnings. You should have done so at the time, and you should also have taken into account that these criteria apply only to an economic growth of 5 per cent. They should have intervened in a timely manner, not in an ad hoc action, through which a wave of stress on the Austrian population, down to the Austrian economy, which has severely damaged the Austrian economy and has driven unemployment up.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e2376	I would ask for the final sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e2391	Because of this small extract, Minister of Finance, you cannot expect us to give this budget our approval.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e2443	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Hazelsteiner. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e2464	The curiosity increases, the mystery will also be ventilated. Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Last year, when we adopted the famous double budget, I was allowed to bring out a bump of paper, it was 22 kilos heavy, 1,05 meters high, similar. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Kostelka.]] Mr Kostelka! That was the result of hard work. Many people have worked on this bump of paper so that he was present in time, at least on the budget speech. We are talking now, today, not about the content, we do not want to tear up old wounds, we do not want to talk about how much of the stuff had to be repaired again. All this, Andreas, let's leave it alone. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: I think so! Because you were wrong!]] The fact is, it was the result of work, stiff, so I think, in wide areas, not very profound in others, but after all, it was the result of social partnership sweats and, of course, characterized by a certain degree of medium. That's compromise thinking. Unfortunately, the result of this great work was unthankful of God. The opposition has criticized and said that this is not true, and I will also quote that it has actually not voted. We said it was not thought enough. In addition, of course, we have also felt planted – I believe all of us Members – because we knew that this package had nothing to do with it and therefore the discussions here in the House were a farce. It wasn't time. But worse still was the fact that the population did not vote in favour of this package either. She refused, she felt it socially unfair, she felt it was anti-performance. In particular, it has not recognised it as innovative and has rejected it and has therefore put the real cause for government reform, ladies and gentlemen. This government transformation with a new chancellor has also brought a new climate, new momentum. It was called: We're not gonna do that anymore! – At least it is specified. They said, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, This is no longer happening to us in 1997! We are making a "macher budget", no longer snarling, we are demonstrating problem-solving competence, and therefore we are making the budget on time, even on time, Mr. Federal Minister – it would not have been necessary so early – the budget speech on time, perhaps also on time. Now comes the actual criticism and therefore this surprise, which is in it. It's a box, a decent, manageable box, just, ladies and gentlemen, there's nothing in it. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] That, please, is nothing. [[the speaker holds an empty sheet of paper in height]] [[Abg. Marizzi: All results are in it!]] – These too would look different, Mr Marizzi! [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] But it's nothing, ladies and gentlemen! It's an empty box, and you know that. This is particularly known by the Federal Minister of Finance. Andreas, the butter you have on your head, you should leave there and not put it in my box. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You seem to want her!]] Why can't it be? Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! The written figures of the previous year are the cover, it can't be. The figures will be rewritten and the budget too. What has been added to economic growth can be understood. It can't be. It's no wonder it can't be. The discretional room is zero, or it is minimal. The fact that you can still rework in the budget does not deserve the expression discretion expenditure. By the way, there's a treat: The discretion expenditure in this budget, including the debt service, is presented – after the foreign exchange, I should not necessarily pay the schools! That is why they are discretionary expenditure. However, if one withdraws these from the expenditure of discretion, then de facto nothing remains, ladies and gentlemen. The financial proposals that we will decide tomorrow can't be either. The hashing after cigarette smugglers and the 5 percent increase in the advance payment of income tax and the suspension of allowances – that can't be the innovation, that can't be the content! If we, ladies and gentlemen, keep in mind that the budget is the government work that has been put into figures, then that is exactly what comes out. It's just a standstill. We do not pursue any reform policy, not even in approaches or in such modest approaches that they do not deserve the expression reform, ladies and gentlemen. This is a relatively unemotional finding. This is not even polemic, for you, Mr Kostelka, and you, too, Andreas, will not trust yourselves and say: Yes, we are making reform policy. – We have a standstill policy, Mr Marizzi, as you know exactly! [[Abg. Marizzi: proposals! Proposals!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] There is government and opposition to ensure that this role play is properly shared. Mr Marizzi! Now I'm going to demonstrate to you what happens to such an empty box. If she gets a little pressure, she'll gnash. Do you hear the kneading? Then she deforms. At the end, she forces – I don't want to destroy her completely, but as a souvenir – but she breaks in because she's not filled! If she had a content, she'd be more stable. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: You said that a year ago!]] Mr Kostelka and Mr Khol! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You said that one year ago, exactly the same!]] We expect from you, and that is the statement of this, forgive me, something simple symbol – I just wanted everyone in this room to really like to follow – that government policy feels responsible for developing such "contents". [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Last year you complained because the box was filled was too full!]] But that's not happening! We advise here on a budget whose parameters are not fixed. Essential parts of this budget hang in the air. You don't even know how this will end up. We're in the air, just like I said before. The Federal Minister stands on both legs, but unfortunately God's air. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: We're not in the air! We don't have a private jet!]] You're in the air, too. [[Abg. Edler: Where is your proposal?]] Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: This red box symbolizes your "basic income"!]] Since people in this country recognize that you are hanging in the air, pessimism and fear of the future arise. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Outer red and nothing in it – this is your "basic income"! Blood red and nothing in it – this is the Liberal Forum! It's not blue, the box is red! This is the Marxist basic income! That's where the Freud controlled the subconscious!]] Therefore, the tendency to succumb to populist seductions finally comes. Dear Andreas Khol! I'm still talking about the basic income. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The box is red!]] It is especially important to me that you too understand the basic income. I'll explain this to you. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Further call of the Abg. Dr. Khol.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Andreas! Didn't you tell him you denied him the Du word?]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: No! I'm not withdrawing the Du Word!]] Ladies and gentlemen! This box, i.e. government work, is also empty because something has failed, which has always provided content in the past: The social partners are in agony! You know that. The social partners have produced paper in good time, Mr Kostelka! The social partners have worked and presented the results. As you know, we have always criticized this as a shadow government. Only this... [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: That means you complain that this time you don't have to carry 1,20 meters out!]] No, I'm not complaining. I'm just gonna find out. The social partners have failed and could not therefore fill this box. [[Abg. Edler: Look in other countries!]] Now there is a wonderful way out, namely the delay: back, not this day, not now, at a later time! – I will come to speak on this phenomenon, on this shameful and politically unreasonable way out. Ladies and gentlemen! There is a very striking quote from the editor Menasse, who says it is unfortunate that Viktor Klima did not understand this weakness of social society as an opportunity, but instead he tried to pray for social security in a healthy way. – Indeed! If you bring this colic-suffering rose to apple again, then, please, not into this box. [[The speaker points to the box in front of him on the pult.]] That's not the result we need. We need proposals that reflect the vision of the future. We need courage and new approaches in different chapters. [[Abg. Edler: What approaches?]] Federal Minister! In your budget speech, you mentioned the technology billions to take one of the essential issues. I'm not even saying I'm guessing that money was resold. They themselves say it is important that efficiency is examined. Not the billion is important, but what happens to these research and technology billions. The technology offensive is not primarily about more money, but primarily about the fact that public research expenditure is also being used effectively. – That’s all very nice! But as we were able to read yesterday, you can't even agree on the competences within the government coalition. Ladies and gentlemen! Where should confidence come from, from which should one be able to read about reform if you even argue about which ministerial office what resources can be distributed? This is what frightens the people and those who think in it. You wonder how you want to solve the task that is difficult enough if you are unable to solve the simple problems. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am coming to speak briefly on research and research funding. We know that, in the international comparison of industrial nations, we are simply and decisively the final light. We also know that we do not have the budgetary room to change this position. In addition, however, it is still somewhat difficult to say that the relationship between basic research and practical research in Austria is as bad as in hardly any other country. We must solve this problem! We need to get away from basic research and provide more resources for practice-related research, because only in this way will we be able to achieve the necessary impulses and the necessary security for the Austrian economic location. You know that, Mr. Lukesch, as well as I am. [[Acclaim at the Liberal Forum and Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen.]] Federal Minister! They are devoting a chapter to the construction industry in which they are looking forward, for example, to a rail infrastructure law. – Minister of State! I beg you! And don't accuse me, I'm talking pro domo, that would happen to me wrong. I speak as a specialist, I hope you admit that to me. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Well!]] This federal government has been pursuing a "stop-and-go" policy for years. If the budget is short, get on the brake and lock all the means. It is no longer a task because the numbers have to vote. Then there are the large numbers of unemployed, after that one building summit after another, and finally we are making programmes. - That's it! Ladies and gentlemen! You know that. You agreed. Federal Minister! I have to tell you: Less, but that's reliable! Less, but the planable! Less, but that's targeting! – That would be more than big programs. The construction industry wants to have predictable requirements and does not always have to expect that: In the event of budget crisis, they will re-establish the emergency brake, no matter what the consequences for this key industry. They promise to find further new forms of financing. Ladies and gentlemen! How should people take faith in it? How can they be confident that you are willing to put something into the box? You admit for yourself that you didn't even succeed in the road pricing for trucks. Just a picker's solution came out. Ladies and gentlemen of the coalition parties! This is really not innovative. It's not a reform either. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Do you want the road pricing?]] No, no, no, It is not about whether I want it or not, but about whether there are better alternatives and whether we finally trust ourselves to develop and implement models that have hands and feet, or whether we – like your group – go to the knees before every pressure group. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lukesch.]] Federal Minister! The following chapter relates to the problem of education and training. They announce measures such as the partial right of schools, the apprenticeship offensive and the reform projects in higher education. Yesterday we talked about the apprenticeship offensive, and I prophesied to you, with my colleague Helmut Peter, who also did so, that we should pay the price for it next year. Today we will have a modest success, although I do not know whether it is a success at all and whether it deserves this designation. In any case, the worst will be prevented this year. But next year this problem will have been raised, and we have not created the conditions for removing this pressure. However, we would have had time to do this and today we could have put in place measures in the apprenticeship and apprenticeship system, which would already be effective in the next year, for those leaving school in July 1998. That's what we'd have done. However, we have not done so, and that is why next year we will also meet this blow in the form of an apprentice miscarriage two times. I can't see any reforms in our schools either. The abolition of untimely overtime cannot also be a reform. I must say that I was surprised that there was anything at all, but I took note of it. However, it is not a reform step! In the announcement of the Federal Minister, I recognize that the lawyers and in a wash-up also want to degradate others to high school students, not a reform step for universities. I do not think this deserves this expression. However, I believe that the full legitimacy and discharge from the camera list and therefore the decentralised budget execution in meaningful units would be such steps, because in our opinion the universities are particularly suitable for this. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! On this occasion, however, I do not want to hide the fact that there is progress on one point, namely in the field of higher education. The Republic has gone through a modern and good law on this issue. Unfortunately, however, you, Mr Federal Minister of Finance, are starved at this branch for whatever reason, I do not know. There is too little resources for the colleges – you know, Mr. Lukesch. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Yes, I know!]] That you do not allow us to do so, I know, because there is a dispute between universities and colleges. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: No fight at all! These are banalities that you spread!]] But it is a fact that there are much more applicants for studies for colleges than can be accepted. On the one hand On the other hand, this is an advantage for professional universities, but, of course, it is a hallucination of this law. I hope to find different approaches in the next budget. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: I already have more creative methods!]] For the "Social" chapter: Federal Minister! You said in your budget speech that social reduction could not be our goal, quite the contrary, we want to secure and maintain these benefits. But these cost a lot of money! We therefore need to review our social system again and again and put in place measures to ensure its reliability and financial viability. A number of points will then be put forward, all of which represent an increase in revenue and ensure financial viability in so far as they ask the citizens of that country or those concerned to cash out. That's one thing! But there is not a single approach where you can increase the reliability of the meeting! On the contrary, as you have so far distributed, Mr. Nowotny, thankfully mentioned it again, only from FLAF 51.5 billion according to the principle of foundry. Under the principle of casting, this box will not be filled. You can still pour in so much, it'll run out down. For this is not a suitable means and not a reform! You too, Mr Federal Minister, are asked to deal with the liberal transfer model. We believe that this would be a proper approach. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! To the next point, to the pensions. I don't know if I should say anything about it at all, because it's open, as you know. Only so much is allowed to say: The government, so to speak, has ordered an independent expert from abroad who, in order not to come into suspicion, comes from abroad. It has now proposed a minimum variant for rehabilitation of the system. However, this is not a groundbreaking or revolutionary renovation – not one that could be said for God's sake, there is a "radical" at work – but a minimal, a gentle variant. [[Abg. Edler: What about you "revolutionary"?]] But not even these seem to be feasible or to find the social partnership consensus. I don't know how you imagine that. They say: Do not talk ill, but create confidence in the future. But that can't create trust. The shift to the next generation is unreasonable. We must not let this happen! I do not know where you are – I wanted to speak to Mrs Reitsamer, who spoke in this direction – whether you have children and grandchildren. But it must be a matter of concern to all of us that we have this issue in this House and in this... [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e2904	Please put to the conclusion, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e2919	Mr President. It must be our concern to solve these and similar problems in this House and in this legislative period and not to speak out for coming generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e3069	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Van der Bellen. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e3090	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Khol has today published the book of my collected errors. I shall come back to that, but I would say in advance that our main criticism of this proposal is not that it does not meet the objectives of the Greens, but that it is not apparent that it is in line with your own objectives. We share many of these goals, I would like to predict. However, there is nothing in the budget. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Maybe you don't look well!]] First: Minister of Finance Edlinger said that the fight against unemployment was the most important objective. - Yes! Right! That's what we find. But you can't see that in the budget. Secondly, The Federal Government will not tire to talk about the importance of innovation, research, development, technology offensive, technology billions and so on for economic growth and the location Austria. - Right! So what? Where do you see this in the budget? Thirdly, The government claims to have finally recognized the dynamics of the pension system. – Where is this evident in the budget or in the budget accompanying laws? Fourth: It is claimed that a permanent budget consolidation has now been achieved. – Despite a historic peak of the tax rate, for which the ÖVP is also responsible, I do not see that. The Maastricht objective is not clearly missed after an invention by me, but according to the budgetary data available. Finally, fifth: The information content of the proposal in that form available to us is very dubious or not estimated in many details because of the simple fact that the relationship between budget and budget accompanying legislation is not clear. The first point is the effect of the labour market. I have already quoted Mr Edlinger, the Minister of Finance, and I have added that the Greens absolutely share this view of the current priority in economic policy. What do we see in the budget? I'd like to know about you. The labour market policy measures – look at the table cover on the budget speech, overview 21! – have been stagnating to 5.5 billion schilling for five years now. It is also not an increase for this in the international Comparing already known low approach to an active labour market policy. In addition, funds from unemployment insurance and therefore labour market funds are still transferred to pension insurance. Moreover, this amount is increasing dramatically, from 4.9 billion in 1997 to 7.2 billion in 1998. Look at Chapter 1/55! These funds are, of course, missing elsewhere, in active labour market policy. All in all, as far as the economic situation is concerned, it is likely that the effect is at best neutral. On this occasion a few words on the comments made by my colleague, Mr Novotny, which have been left out here about the economic situation and economic growth. It may already be that the government is lucky and the economic situation is a little better than expected half a year ago. But look at the cover of the Minister of Finance, Overview 2: Austria has been below the EU average and also below the OECD average since 1995. This remains so according to the 1998 forecast. Mr Novotny has also called for unemployment rates within the OECD. Look In the table cover in the overview 3 according! The unemployment rate of 6.4 percent after OECD definition in Austria – and not the 4.0 percent – would only be the miserable EU definition – is already higher than in the UK and the Netherlands and is only just below the OECD average of 7 percent. In other words: In the 1990s, Austria declined relatively significantly compared to the OECD average. Are you seriously selling this to me as a major economic success? You don't mean that, do you? Mr Khol! We must distinguish between the rhetoric which I very much appreciate on you and the numbers, the reality! Second point: Innovation, research and development, technology offensive and so on. I do not want to repeat all of this in detail – Mr. Hazelsteiner has already referred to it – but please look at the overview 25 in the spreadsheet. There are the numbers, there you can see whether it is the government's intention to dot research and development, the technology billion, and so on. Check it out! This can be found in the back part of the overview 25. The Fund for the Promotion of Scientific Research stagnates in the allocations at the level it has already had in 1992 and 1993. The approach is unchanged, i.e. there is a significant decline in real terms compared to the early 1990s. The allocation to the Research Fund of the Industrial Economy, the FFF, falls from 701 million in 1997 – if it has received this amount at all – to 530 million in 1998. The technology billion is being donated with 700 million. We are already used to the fact that 30 percent of the billions from the house are charged. That is what you call a serious R & D policy, a serious promotion of economic research? Third point: My colleague, Mr Oellinger, will give a detailed opinion on the pension reform. I just want to say so much: The international studies on this subject, which I know, fromrup to OECD to the International Monetary Fund, show a dynamic of the Austrian pension system, which makes one really shudder. This was not known to me until recently in this order of magnitude. It is completely excluded that the measures you are discussing – as far as they are in the public interest – will be sufficient to slow down the dynamics of the pension system by 2020, 2025 in such a way that you can talk about rehabilitating the pension system. Fourth point: Budget consolidation. Mr Khol! It is certain that the tax rate, the tax rate in Austria, will be more than 44 percent in 1997. That's what it was last year. This is a great success of conservative economic and financial policies! What is not certain is that you will achieve the Maastricht objective. Mr Trattner has already pointed out these miserable 15 billion schillings in the budget for tax credits. This plays a major role in terms of the Maastricht deficit. Why? – If you know the table you need to look for, you will find the value of 2.8 percent deficit for the Maastricht deficit in total for 1998, which is significantly less than 3%. The 15 billion additional tax revenue you book under customs law for uninventible reasons today, these 15 billion additional tax credits – that is 0.6 percent of GDP – are not Maastricht compliant. It is expressly in the work aid for the current budget that you are moving on to a strict cash principle – cash principle – on this point, the tax credits. Everyone who has been a little concerned with this matter knows that the Maastricht definition of a deficit is exactly the opposite of the cash principle. That's the opposite! It is based on the VGR or the Accrual principle. So if EUROSTAT, the statistical office of the European Commission, is still semi-sensory, it cannot accept this booking as Maastricht-compliant, i.e. the Maastricht deficit would not be 2.8 percent, but 3.4%. I don't mention this because it bothers me so insanely – I don't care if it's 2.8 or 3.4 percent – but it's your jubilation. They claim that the deficit is below 3.0 percent. Of course, you can be lucky that the EU Statistical Commission is making a non-comprehensible decision, which has already happened several times. Of course, you can have another happiness – like 1995 – too. I mention the 1995 data, because it gives me the background to make some critical comments on the Maastricht Treaty. The Maastricht deficit for 1995 was forecast to be 4.5% of GDP at the time of the 1995 forecast. Half a year later, it was 5.5 percent of GDP, and in the preliminary performance of February 1996, it was 6.2 percent of GDP – a difference of 1.7 percentage points within a few months. Since October 1996, I am still talking about 1995 for the same year. In the federal accounts of October 1996, the figure was only 5.9%, in May 1997, according to Wifo 5.3 percent, and in the Wifo's September report, we are talking about a deficit of 4.9% of GDP for 1995, so that we are now faced with the interesting fact that we have three figures for 1995: According to Wifo, 5.1 percent according to employment in 1998 and 5.3% according to the budget speech of the Minister of Finance of a few weeks ago. Why do I mention all this? - As a curiosum. The Maastricht Treaty entitles all serious criminal payments to exceed the 3.0% limit of the GDP deficit – all serious! – and we see here that, obviously, only for statistical reasons and because of the uncertainty in Austria – especially in the countries and communities – these figures can easily differ by 1.5 percentage points – for one and the same year, for one and the same country! This is something to be administered once! You know that I am a supporter of monetary union and an equally strict opponent of the convergence criteria, but much more I am an opponent of the Stability Pact, which is simply a mistake. This is not manageable, as can be seen from these few numbers. The Federal Government has used too few effforts, too little energy, to correct this part of the Maastricht Treaty. It would have been enough if the word "deficit" in the Maastricht Treaty had been interpreted as a structural deficit. It would certainly be useful to calculate the economic impact and look at only the structural budget deficit. If you look at the last IMF report, the report of the International Monetary Fund, you can see that Austria has a deficit of 1.7 percent of GDP for 1997, Italy – the much-frozen Italy! – Also 1.7 percent deficit and the EU averages 1.6 percent deficit. So the whole theater around these convergence criteria is only annoyed and is pointless to economic policy. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Again: The proposal of the Federal Government misses the self-elected Maastricht target of 3.0 percent. According to the data you submit – which you present that I do not invent! – it's 3.4 percent. Finally, on this point: It is not quite clear what we are talking about today – Mr Hazelsteiner has already indicated this. There is a federal proposal and a number of budget accompanying laws – not 102 or how many they were last year, but perhaps half, and these are summarized in three packages instead of in one – but these budget-accompanied laws need to be adopted first. If you look at the figures in the Federal estimates, you will not know at all because the figures are obviously as if the budget accompanying laws had already been adopted, and on other points they look as if this would simply be a budget preview on the basis of the status quo, without taking into account the budget accompanying laws. In the case of tobacco tax, but also in the case of fees, the budget accompanying laws are obviously anticipated, but not in the case of insurance tax. Somebody's supposed to know each other. This situation, of course, changes the deficit because the deficit data in the front part is based on the figures relating to taxes and expenditure in the back part. But the latter figures do not know what they are based on: on a preview, on the budget accompanying laws, on an x-any mixture of the two or on what? On this occasion I may also note that it is true to law, but it contradicts the spirit of the law that the budget report does not exist until today, according to § 13 of the Federal Budget Act. After the letters of the It shall be submitted by law at the latest at the beginning of the Committee's deliberations. It is likely that it will arrive at 8 o'clock in the early days of the committee on which the hearing begins. I feel a little bit like a shock. He could already be here today if the plenary discussed it. Mr. Khol! I do not know whether this budget will be available for 1998. I hope that will be the same in the Minutes and you can read it again next year; but you do not know either. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: There you are more careful than last year!]] No one knows what is actually being anticipated in this budget today and what is not. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's right! But you were sure last year that it was not true!]] Mr. Khol! They have today greatly praised the solid financial policy, which has recently been torn down. I also recommend you not only to read the budget speech and your own speeches on this subject, but also to read the budget speech spreadsheet and, if I am not mistaken, to review 11 on the development of debt. There you will see that from 1992 to 1998, the government debt ratio increased from 48 to 60 percent of GDP, only to the narrowest federal area. How much this is in billions of schilling, I don't want to tell you right now. I just want to say: The era Kreisky is harmless in comparison. What has happened here since the early 1990s cannot be compared to what happened in the era Kreisky. Only with the difference that in the era Kreisky perhaps the number of unemployed has actually been reduced by this policy. You can't say that anymore. I'm sorry, but I'm sure you'll find it. Look Please check this table on indebtedness and compare it to the seventies! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: But please!]] Again: We share most of your goals. We share most of the objectives that finance ministers Edlinger presented in his budget speech, starting with the priority of labour market policy, but they do not reflect themselves in the budget. For me, the figures in the budget are still ten times more important than what I am hearing here from the government bank or you, colleagues of the government parties. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is also not true that this applies to all points, but to those points in the speech of the Minister for Finance, which are not reflected in figures. But I strongly support him in his efforts to promote, for example, tax harmonisation within the European Union or the elimination of tax havens in the European Union. I absolutely agree with that. Now to my mistakes, Mr Khol. I do not think I have ever claimed to be as infallible as the Pope. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Do you believe in the Pope's infallibility?]] I can be wrong, just as you can be wrong. However, what you have read to me today I do not think until I have received it from you in writing. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: What?]] All these points you have quoted as proof of what I falsely said a year ago. That's what I like to look at. If it's true what you said, I like to say... [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Gentlemen agree on facts!]] A press release? - That's not a protocol. That's what a lady wrote, but I like to look at it. [[Abg. Dr. Khol is handing over a newspaper section to the speaker.]] This is a newspaper report; we just want to hold on to it. This is a newspaper report and not a stenographic protocol. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Give it back to me!]] But if it's true, I'd like to go inside and repent. Mr Khol can certainly tell me how, in such a case, it is appropriate to repent. [[Abg. Kiss: scatter ash to the head!]] Yeah, something like that! Whether I am less critical of your budget and budget policy after my penance depends, of course, on how much you continue to irritate and torment me with your jubilation messages, with your jubilation. If you were to reduce this, I would be willing to do a little more penance on my part. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e3268	The next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Mertel. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e3289	High house! Mr President. Minister! I am always amazed – because I think that numbers and numbers to which I do not have too good access are always the most sober and powerful – as one can read from one and the same numbers the most different things, depending on the political and ideological coloring. [[Abg. May. Peter: We always wonder about that, Mrs. Colleague!]] Yes, I am amazed! Mr Van der Bellen cannot see the objectives of the budget. [[Abg. May. Peter: The Feast of the Ist-Stand!]] I say that we are concerned with safeguarding the social state, which is the basis for securing the social state. The 1998 budget applies to new impulses of the economy. Another comment on Mr Khol's comments before I come to his favorite theme, the "Orchideen theme", the women. Since Mr. Khol is famous that he and the ÖVP have done a lot for the nationalists, which makes them well done today, I can recall: If it had gone to the ÖVP, then these companies would today be museums, as Mr Busek recommended. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If Mr. Boxel – apologies, Mr. Hazelsteiner, of course, he has confused me with the red box – if Mr. Haselsteiner really demonstrates well and clearly here, how stable a weak box becomes through a strong lid – as he calls the social partnership – then I thank him for that. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the ÖVP and the Freeman]] [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: What do you mean, Mrs. Mertel?]] They have truly demonstrated how good and important the social partners are in Austria. However, Mr Haselsteiner, if you say that the proposal is a gentle one and does not intervene in the case of low-income people, you will, of course, also show your remoteness. So you show that you do not have access to low-income people. That's clear because of your situation. Mr Trattner! He's not here, that doesn't matter. [[Abg. Böhacker: There he is!]] He's talking about a swindle budget. I wonder, Why is the FPÖ predestined to detect dizziness and dizziness budgets – especially dizziness? – It is probably because – if Mr Gaugg wants to establish a union – the new employee leader in Carinthia, namely worker leader Gaugg, to whom does support apply? [[Abg. May. Trattner: Did you look at the budget?]] – Not to the workers, the workers and employees or even officials! [[Abg. Gaugg: Voluntary – unlike forced membership!]] No, to the entrepreneurs! He promises them to represent them well in Parliament, and he asks entrepreneurs for financial assistance because he wants to be free and independent. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: This is strange to you!]] Still to a twirl that your F-collegs have delivered in the Carinthian Landtag. For weeks they spoke in Carinthia of privileged knights and bred against the salary pyramid. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gaugg.]] You said: We don't assume that. And what do they do, the "F", suddenly in the country day? What are they doing? – You agree to the Reference Act at third reading. [[Abg. Kiss: Go! There can't be that! I don't think so!]] It's not just dizziness, it's pure hypocrisy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Our family and social benefits – and I would like to maintain this here – are both quantitatively and qualitatively up-to-date compared to all other industrialised countries. They're among the best. A quarter of the budget is spent in 1998 on social affairs, families and pensions. Each fourth budget schilling shall be passed on to its citizens by the State for social benefits. The core part of family benefits, namely the family compensation fund, is donated with 55 billion schilling. Family allowances, benefits, contributions to leave and pension contributions are insured. As the SPÖ's family spokesperson, I personally regret that the family allowance is not valorised. I do not fully understand the need to establish this, because it has not been valorized for a number of years, but has been lowered on the contrary. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: What are you doing about it?]] The same applies to the leave allowance, which has the strongest redistributive effect. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: What perspective do you have?]] My perspective is probably not similar to yours. [[Abg. Gaugg: When did you last sit at the desk?]] I have a working-time map that I can present to you on a monthly basis. These are machine records that make a time machine for me now. I'm different from you, Mr Gaugg. I may work, but the banking doors have been locked in front of you, and you have also lost the process. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Social security benefits are insured. The non-refundable co-insurance of family members, child deposits and single-holder deposits are also guaranteed. In order to secure the proven in the future, we need a reasonable budget – and that is what my previous speaker, Novotny, has already said. But we also need reforms. Here's one thing I'm saying: The word "reform" must not be synonymous with deterioration. I mean, we need a modernisation shift in the field of family promotion, because downtime means a step back. What we do not need, however, is the forging of a schinidyll, the return to social romance in Biedermeier style or a woman-back-to-herd philosophy. Our entire support system must respond to structural change, and it must be adapted to the structural change that is taking place in all Western industrialized countries. We Socialists therefore stand for an innovative employment-oriented family policy, for a family policy that meets the specific needs of families, families in an industrial, service and information society on the way to the 21st century. ==References== We therefore want to strengthen the young families. [[Abg. Gaugg: Why don't you do it?]] Especially for the start-up phase of a family, we need to provide a bundle of measures. We need to strengthen the social component, for example, through a supplement to the family allowance for less-income families, because just single-schoolers – let me talk to you, Mr Gaugg, speak in Carinthia, there nobody listens to you! – and low-income multi-child families should be taken into account. [[Abg. Gaugg: Why don't you do it?]] No redistribution from bottom to top! We need a structural reform for FLAF – I am not grateful to you – in the form of a broadening of the funding base, a gradual conversion from current wage-based financing to a value-added levy. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Are you in the opposition?]] We want to continue the consistent expansion of childcare facilities, including the farm kindergartens. Opening hours must be tailored to the needs of children, but also to the needs of working parents, therefore all day opening hours and also during the holiday season with a qualified staff. Social benefits such as the free movement of students and schoolbooks must be secured. For students and students who have a second residence at the school and study venue, we want to create an income-dependent home travel aid. The situation of women – Khol's "Orchideen Theme" – in the working world is, of course, closely related to the discussion about family policy. The focus of an offensive social and family policy is on the situation of women in the working world and the strengthening of the safeguarding of their rights. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: The focus is on the family!]] We also want the inclusion of minor employees in the social security system. Statistics recently published show the dramatic situation: No trace of full-time jobs in trade! We want an independent pension scheme for women, re-entry assistance after family work, the right to part-time work up to the sixth year of the child's life and training in enterprises, because women need the acquisition of qualifications. In most cases they do not have time to do so, they need to re-acquire skills in order to be able to move to other sectors. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That's a real opposition speech! If you're in the government, you'll do all that!]] We do not need a division of the labour market: here full-time work for men and there part-time work for women, otherwise the word "flexibilization" becomes a synonym, a synonym for the disadvantage of women and a synonym for wage reduction and job reduction programmes. [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Mag. Stadler and Dr. Graf.]] If we are talking about equality and equal treatment – I know you can shout out loud – that is one of the conditions in your party to get here – we mean the social and economic equality of women. We need new and other women living and working for women, other forms of life and work for women. [[Abg. Gaugg: What was that now?]] [[Abg. May. Trattner: Do you read this for the first time today?]] – You talk so perfectly, I know you need to correct me. You're one of the top speakers, Mr. Gaugg! A survey by the Opinion Research Institute shows that we are on the right track. The subject of this survey was: Women's life planning. After that, all women surveyed are vocationally oriented between 18 and 30 years of age. They give the profession the most preference, preference to the household, even to mother's obligations. However, it is stressed that it must be possible to bring career, child and household under one hat. 85 percent of the women surveyed also say that they want to start a family. We also need to extend the financial base of the families, especially the low income families and not the highest earners. I say again: No redistribution from bottom to top! [[Abg. Gaugg: The red lamp shines!]] We must note that we live in a world of contradictions: increasing employment – increasing unemployment, high prosperity – new forms of poverty. That is why we will be determined to take up the fight against poverty.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e3597	Mrs Mertel has a speaking time of 9 minutes from the Rules of Procedure. The clock is set to a voluntary speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e3612	We will take up the fight against this poverty, and above all we must insist that enough jobs be created. Priority must be given to job-intensive projects. Social cohesion in our society must be safeguarded again. Therefore, we must modernise the social state and focus the transfer services mainly on those people they really need. Ladies and gentlemen! We need changes in order to cope with the challenges that are coming immediately and in the longer term. However, these changes must be made in the interests of the people and must be realized in particular together with them.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e3645	The next speaker is Mr Maderthaner. The voluntary speaking time is set to 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e3675	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The draft budget, which was adopted by the Minister of Finance on 18 November. In September the House presented to the House a clear commitment to social dialogue, including the reduction of unemployment in Austria, i.e. the creation of new jobs, with the aim of achieving as much stability as possible, greater efficiency of public institutions and a clear commitment to social security. Mr. Hazelsteiner! Only a comment on the social partners: If we're talking too much or more, it's said we're a sub-government. If we need longer discussions, because sometimes it's also very difficult materials, then it's said we're toothless. I can tell you: We are neither a side government nor a toothless one! [[Abg. Böhacker: A toothless side government!]] We are an advisory body that is trying to help solve the problems of this country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mrs Mertel! Just one comment: Since you are asking what would have happened to the national light if it had gone to the ÖVP, I would like to tell you one thing – please, listen to me! –: [[Abg. Koppler: She's right! Busek's statement!]] We would, of course, have privatized much earlier or would have told the national authorities that they should specialize in environmental equipment, environmental installations, already at a time when this would have been interesting and would have saved us a lot of subsidies. That would've done the ÖVP. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Further call of the Abg. Headmaster.]] - You can report, dear friend Koppler. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: He can't talk about the things he says!]] [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: We're not at the ÖVP club!]] [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The effort that has been clearly identified in the budget speech and which can be seen from the draft budget is important, but only the one side, while the implementation is the more important and the second side. In order to safeguard and create jobs, we must refrain from everything that weakens or strains the economy in this great time of the challenge. And we have to do everything we can to further improve the environment for the economy; there has already been a great deal in this regard. Because only businesses, ladies and gentlemen, create and secure jobs – not regulations. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Of course, we also need to solve the problems ahead, which is not a question at all. But we must not only focus our attention on present-day problems, but, of course, we must also have in mind the future. What topics are to be discussed? This too must be said very clearly and clearly: It is the guarantee of pensions in recent weeks the topic number 1 for the under 40s, but much more for the disciples. For, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say this very clearly: we need harmonisation in the right to benefit and claim. We need to harmonise the calculation periods, i.e. the same system for all systems, which is urgently necessary. And we need an increase in the statutory retirement age. In other words, we need to increase competitiveness in order to create additional jobs if we want to employ people longer. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In order to express the drama here, I would like to tell you the following, ladies and gentlemen: Today's 20-year-olds could choose between three options if we didn't do anything – but we're sure to solve this problem as well: first possibility: Pension contributions should be increased from 22.8 to 53 percent. Second possibility: The amount of the pension should be reduced by 45 percent. Third possibility: People would have to be up to 76. Lifetime work. – All three variants are, I believe, not a desirable goal for the future, and therefore there will also be a solution. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Another topic is youth employment. It is certain that we currently have young people who are still looking for an apprenticeship. However, I would like to say the following to illustrate both sides and to give the truth the honor: At the end of September, we completed more 3 000 teaching contracts than in the previous year. We have to say that clearly and clearly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schaffenrath.]] The reason why there are still problems, however, I should also like to say to you, Mrs Colleague: because this year and the next year birth-thinking years are pushing on the labour market – but this trend will change again a year later. But I would like to tell you something else that we could do, because we would not have any problems at all to accommodate all young people: We have recently created the so-called sub-business with the new industrial order, and I could imagine that we are also introducing the so-called sub-titudinal doctrine, namely for those who are somewhat less qualified, which are somewhat weaker, to let them learn a part-time job. This is what parents and young people want, and we could get the young people out of the auxiliary workforce. You should really think about that. [[Further congratulation with the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Koppler: And what is the background? Because you don't want to pay!]] Dear friend Koppler! It is a pity that we cannot talk about it. You can only see it from the other side. Can I tell you that there are less qualified people who would be very happy if they were not to go as auxiliary workers but to learn a part-time job?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I'll tell you something. In the meantime, it may also be possible to get them to the fullest level if, in the meantime, they have come up with the button. All of this must be taken into account if you are to help young people. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The next issue we are currently working on is the euro. This is also a clear word, ladies and gentlemen: It is a question of the European Union's being strongly developed, and I hope that we are all interested in it. The competition of the future will not only be held between individual companies, not only between individual countries in Europe, between Austria and Germany or France or Italy, but also between Europe and America and Europe and Asia, and it is therefore necessary for this Europe to develop vigorously. That is why we need a common currency. And if there is a need for a common currency in Europe, then a small country, which is certainly very strong economically, but still small, cannot be excluded. [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] Talk to the owners of small and medium-sized enterprises – perhaps you will do so anyway – who want to export. They say that they have the greatest difficulties with the new markets, because they do not know them enough, but they are also afraid that a change in currency savings may take place between the acceptance of orders and the settlement of orders, i.e. that they will be devalued in the other country. I was recently in an industrial plant where the change in currency savings in a single order has recently been lost 170 000 S. [[Abg. May. Stadler: But you can get hold of this differently! That's why you don't have to give up the schilling!]] One important aspect of the euro is that the calculation is simplified, because a small business cannot handle so much bureaucracy. – So there are enough advantages. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Faith You really – and you have to make this clear to people – that the savers drive better when the schilling may become weaker? I don't think so. Ladies and gentlemen! There are other problems to be solved. For example, debureaucratisation must continue. The new plant law has now taken great steps through the concentration of approval negotiations – a very essential point. Furthermore, the export offensive must be driven forward. It has already been pointed out by Mr Khol today that we have an increase of more than 11 per cent in the first half of the year; there have been constant increases in the last four years. I can also tell you the following: I led the Latin American export tribe yesterday. There are major increases in this area: 11.8 per cent of exports to Colombia, over 45 per cent to Brazil, 54 per cent to Chile and 99.8 per cent to Argentina – almost a doubling! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] – This is the performance of Austrian companies, and we should remove them! I come to the end of my remarks, ladies and gentlemen. What is important and essential... [[Abg. May. Stadler: And this has to do with the euro? Latin America has to do with the euro? How stupid are you selling this house?]] – Please, sign up as a speaker or talk to me afterwards! Don't shout in between, so we won't solve the problems, Mr Stadler! We won't solve them with that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is the dollar, Mr President! What does this have to do with the euro?]] If you don't understand, then sign up and try to present it differently. [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is the dollar, Mr President! Do you know what that is?]] You don't need to explain that to me, Mr. Stadler. Keep your wisdom for yourself, that's much better. You know this for sure: Si tacuisses, philosopher menisses. – That also applies to you! Ladies and gentlemen! [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Mr. Leo! So what are you talking about the euro?]] You know what we need – and this is essential to make the future positive –: We need a new entrepreneurship. Even at school, young people need to be made clear that the job of the entrepreneur is an important one because it creates jobs. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] This also applies to the media, which could be quite more positive. Not only the scandals, but above all the positive development should be presented and mediated. And this is especially true of the opposition, which at times may well be involved in creating a positive mood, and not constantly messing with everything. We need mutators and not messmakers, remember that!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e3948	President. — The debate is closed. [[Interlocutory calls between the representatives of the ÖVP and the liberals.]] – A few seconds, Minister, if you understand, until the discourse has ended. So I can now ask you to make your statement, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e3975	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! I, of course, have listened very carefully to the discussion so far and would like to begin by thanking me very much, first of all, for the differing but well expressed praise of the House for the 1998 budget. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I think that a budget debate has different facets. First of all, it is about examining the proposal, examining the figures of a certain plausibility, and it is true that it is possible to draw different political conclusions. This is also a good thing, because I also believe that parliamentarianism lives from different viewpoints, from different objectives, but ultimately the interest of the House must be to decide on a proposal for this country, which is in line with the objectives which the Federal Government has set itself, namely to prepare the country for the new challenges and, insofar as this allows the budgetary possibilities to be adapted accordingly. I think I'm venerationful Ladies and gentlemen, in the Committees it is possible to clarify in detail the questions which have been presented only in part and only very punctually. I followed it with great pleasure when Mr Dr. Hazelsteiner came out here with a red cardboard box and then feared that he would bring a load package in this and was then very surprised that nothing was inside. [[Cheerfulness and applause with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I should like to make it clear here that it is the objective of this Federal Government to take a economical, realistic budgetary course, but to point out that we have made it clear and clear that it will not be a savings budget, because we do not need a savings budget, because the consolidation of the Austrian budget has been advanced since 1996 in a form which, although it is necessary to ensure consolidation through further reforms, it does not require that we decide what could be defined as a savings package. Mr Trattner, regrettably, has meant that the budget at hand is a swindle budget, and that is the way in which sales proceeds are used to support structural reforms, for example. The breakdown of ASFINAG is in fact nothing but a structural reform. [[Abg. May. Trattner: This is a flight from the budget!]] We can no longer make it so easy to demand that everything be done over the budget on our own, but we must make business thinking and action to the maximum in this society in order to put in place the necessary measures, for example in road construction. [[Abg. May. Trattner: You don't believe that yourself, Minister!]] Of course, some of these funds have been used to introduce structural reforms. I am very sorry that you call a very intelligent budget in many areas as a dwindling budget. But I can live with it. Another definition would keep me, and I would ask myself quietly and quietly what I actually did wrong. [[Cheerfulness and applause with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It was also meant that there was much more to be saved on the expenditure side, since the consolidation fund was set up, but it was avoided because of fear of saying in which areas this should happen. This is because expenditure-side limitation means translated with a different term power limitation. I admit that we have to deal with many areas of performance in terms of punctual, more targeted action, especially in terms of the objective we have set ourselves in budgetary policy, namely to find intelligent solutions in reducing the dynamics, for example in social expenditure. But to say that we must save on expenditure and then shout at every measure when it comes to implementing it is, ladies and gentlemen, not fair. It is not fair, not creative or a way to discuss. Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! If I hear from you what approach you are considering in the area of tax policy, namely a medium-term reduction in the quota to 35 percent, which would trigger a loss of tax of 200 billion schilling, I must say: Austrians, good night! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I know that serious policy is not spectacular, it may not be thanked until later, but this federal government has set itself the task of making not spectacular policies, but a policy of gradual reforms, which can also be understood by people. To do this, we need time, it takes honesty, it takes seriosity. I should like to say quite clearly that this Federal Government has managed to create four budgets in just 18 months. Now you can ask: Where's the fourth? The fourth budget is the preliminary draft for 1999, which the Federal Government has already decided and which you will consult here in Parliament in spring 1998 and, as I believe, will also decide. I therefore accept this because it is the logical addition or continuation of the stabilisation initiated by the 1996 and 1997 budgets, which is now the point of taking the necessary initiatives. I should like to make a very clear statement of the main objectives already set in this budget. As far as some areas are concerned, I will then explain what is meant by them at committee meetings. You will find the logical continuation in the 1999 Federal Estimate. First of all, we are concerned with ensuring that pensions and social security schemes are safeguarded. Despite pension reform 1998 and 1999, there will be an increase in pensions; I quote from 24. July, I'm not quoting what some people said at the time. I notice: Yesterday, with the representatives of pensioners' organizations, we have a fair, as I believe, a moderate – I admit – but the price of the pensioner's pensioner's income and thus the existence of pensioners, whom we owe a lot to in Austria, secure pension increase. That is an essential factor in this concept. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Of course, it is legitimate for someone to get out of here and ask: Where do I find this in the budget? That costs 3.9 billion schilling! – Dear to me Ladies and gentlemen! There is a federal proposal in which those data were put on paper and cast into figures corresponding to reality at the time of the budget creation, of course in the knowledge that, in the course of budgetary deliberations, one or another will have to be re-adjusted accordingly, there will have to be changes because it is necessary or we want to do so. For example, Mr Van der Bellen said: In fact, I do not find a number of measures announced by the Minister of Finance in his speech. Deputies! The insurance tax will be: You do not think it is because this proposal was introduced only after we reached the conclusion within the Federal Government that the early increase in the maximum contribution base in the ASVG area is perhaps not such a good idea. You'd have to ask me: So how do you replace the loss of revenue in the budget? – This is just an example. There will be many other examples of this which will be discussed in the joint committee work. We have found ways of securing coverage in the 1998 budget, without compromising the basic objective of meeting deficit quotas, and without having to make cuts in the budget. Second priority: the administrative reform in the public service – very difficult to put into figures. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The administrative reform in the public service is not a measure, it is a matter of concern. I have to consider what tasks I will perform in the future to the public administration, how they can be optimally, best possible, with minimal staffing and how I can still gain the willingness of the employees to do so. It's difficult! One thing I say to you very clearly, very much, Ladies and gentlemen: I am sure that I will not be prompted to break an administrative reform over the knee, an administrative reform that causes irritation among public employees. We want to do this together with the employees, there are also positive discussions in this respect, but implementation in the budget requires a certain degree of flexibility. I would ask you to take note of this. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Third priority: Research and development. I said very clearly in my budget speech what I was thinking about. Budgets and tables are becoming increasingly difficult to compare, for example because of outlay measures, where certain investments were originally budget-effective, but later they are no longer because they are no longer available. If one reads this superficially, one might mistakenly conclude that the investment would decline. I really wonder about research and development: In fact, it depends solely on the budget's assessment of whether research and technology are being conducted offensively. I conclude that, although this is not essential, if the organization is streamlined and if the public funds are used properly, it is necessary for us to change the lifting rate in such a way that we can achieve the same result from a budget schilling. It is not clear to me at all, and in addition to the fund's managing directors, I have never been able to explain to me why it is the task of research funds to lend loans to banks instead. There are banks that do. This is the most expensive of all methods of promoting research. It is clear to me that when you do so on the path of interest subsidies, substances and return flows are minimized, that this is only a certain period of time, but what we need now is that the engine is starting more strongly. Mr. Dr. Hazelsteiner spoke of basic research and practical research, which is also so loosely said. Then: If I force practical research programmatically, the universities are yelling and saying: We are being led by the economy because of the sales possibilities. The economy, in turn, says: No one can need what is being researched at the university. See, these are thesis and antithesis now. I do not want to be interpreted in such a way as to represent one or the other opinion, but I say that the reorganisation of research and technology funding must be to use basic research in such a way that it serves practical research. And then we have to be able to achieve the overall research effort of Austria that is common in the European Union. As you know, around 39 percent of research expenditure in the European Union is financed from public funds, the rest from private funds. In Austria, over 50 percent are from the public sector. To change this serves the new form of organization that will stand in a few weeks. Ladies and gentlemen! Faith They're not all that's in the newspapers, where there's any difficulty in being competent. This is really of secondary importance. It is of primary importance that this concept in itself be implemented that funding is put on new legs, that there is competition in the field of research, especially where it is concerned with practical research. I'm convinced that I'm venerationful Ladies and gentlemen, if we go to work with Vehemenz, if we believe that we can, we will also achieve this third important objective of the budget. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Fourth priority: I understand that it is said that Austrian growth is primarily due to exports. I too would be very glad if domestic demand were a stronger one. However, it is also about gaining shares in interesting markets. Export promotion also means ensuring value added and thus jobs in our countries. For example, if a large Austrian company wins an international tender for the construction of 500 bridges in the Philippines, it is simply the task of Austrian export promotion to make such soft-loan offers that 80 percent of the value added in the country can actually take place in a total order of over 1.2 billion schilling. Therefore, it is necessary to change the export promotion – I have said very precisely, even almost too much in detail in my budget speech, what it is about us. It is about expanding the FGG into an innovative society, about market development guarantees, about services for small and medium-sized enterprises, which are of enormous importance in Austria – I am very glad that there is agreement with the Chamber of Commerce – in order to simplify administrative processes and the like. I think I'm venerationful Ladies and gentlemen, the promotion of exports is not something that is happening somewhere in any human being. I refuse to interpret what I have heard from many sides, which is export promotion. Export promotion is a safeguarding of highly technologically interesting jobs in our country, and therefore we will also improve this funding instrument. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! I don't want this to be too long for my interlocutory statement. It was important for me to recall some of the positions I have already set out in my budget speech again. I would like to say once again that I did not intend to present a sluggish budget, but rather to present an intelligent and creative budget. [[Abg. Böhacker: "Creative" is good!]] The Federal Government has not presented a savings package but a economical budget, a budget that is in the interests of the Austrian population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e4087	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e4108	Mr President. Minister! High house! Clubobmann Khol said today that with praise and recognition one should deal with a little more generously and perhaps bring more gentlemen-type here. The Minister of Finance has said on his own that he has presented a very intelligent budget and that it is against structural reforms. I admit that there are alternative approaches in structural reforms, since it is important to go different ways, but you, Mr Minister, seem to me to be a frog sitting before five flies: He's starved because he doesn't eat any. You do not choose the path of reform! That is the essence of this budget and nothing else. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I must say that the representatives of the opposition have acted as well today as never before. This was of course not the case with Mr Klubobmann of the ÖVP. But all three of the opposition's budget spokesmen have brought the point exactly where he belongs: that you fail to implement reforms. Minister! You have the forehead to say here that the opposition should show you where the savings approaches are after you have presented a savings package that should consist of two-thirds savings and one-third of revenue increases. You have the forehead to say they didn't know where to save, although you have announced a savings package. This is just as unbelievable as Your 1998 budget! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I understand, of course: They only took over the heritage, and the heir, Mr. Bundeskanzler Klima, had all of this in principle already on 27 July. It was announced in Parliament on 1 February 1996. He said that, together with SPÖ, ÖVP and the social partners, there had been a act of strength that enabled both the conditions for job security and new jobs as well as an extension of the scope for action in the budget. – I emphasize: at the budget! [[Federal Minister Edlinger talks with State Secretary Dr. Ruttenstorfer as well as with Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] – I know that Federal Minister Edlinger prefers to deal with something else now because he is not reminded of it. Minister! Where is that room in the budget? We have heard very impressively today that public investment is falling. We have heard very impressively that the budget is still a goal. This Torso, which is also confirmed by the media, looks in your own party newspaper as follows Under the title "Risk speech of the Minister of Finance" it says: [[the speaker presents a newspaper article]] Rudolf Edlinger's first budget – a torso that can tip over at any time. – That’s in your own party newspaper, you can read it yourself. I therefore have to say that this budget is not a budget at all, and the accompanying laws are missing. I also say to you, your predecessor and heir, Mr Bundeskanzler Klima, that not only is a cold and nude number policy necessary, but one must listen to the people and create jobs together with them. And then, Mr Minister – he's going away now, of course, so unpleasant things he doesn't want to listen to – are you talking about job security? I can't see anything about this budget at all. The only job you have secured is the new post of the former secretary of the Federal Chancellor, Mr Marc Hall, who has become your successor to the OMC. – This is your employment policy. And you added a "black" director to him, so now there are six board members at the OMV. For this, you will be decommissioning 1,000 employees. – This is your type of employment policy! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I must also refer to the contribution made by Professor Novotny, the budget speaker of the Socialists, who, of course, does not listen to this. He'd normally sit here in the front. [[The speaker points to the empty seat of Abg. Dr. Novotny]] Professor Novotny says our economic growth is so great. Ladies and gentlemen! As far as our economic growth is concerned, Austria consistently lowers the EU average from 1994 to 1998. I emphasize: consistent! And every year you say that's the last year, everything will be different from next year. The reality is: We are at the conclusion of economic growth. In addition, you say: With just under 7 percent or 6.5 percent unemployed, we are in the forefront! – But unemployment statistics lie, and you know that very well. They're going to turf her! It is as turkish as this budget, which is presented very early this year. Do you know why, ladies and gentlemen? – In order for you to understand as little as possible, so that you cannot see how wrong the approaches in this budget are. They act according to the motto: Behind us the flood! Mr Novotny has already said that the 1999 budget will be presented earlier. But if it is presented even earlier, you can understand it even less. Perhaps we will make the next election in 1999 possible, until as little as possible, and your announcement policy will not be verifiable. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] An economic magazine describes this very well. [[The speaker keeps another newspaper article up to date.]] A heading reads: Smooth bill on the back of the taxpayers. – You only have to read the economic newspapers. It is a continuous report on this economic, tax and financial policy. There is no other kind of reporting at all. You said today that we liberals could not read English newspapers, we did not know that this Euro-discussion in Europe has long been over. Mr Klubobmann Khol – he is of course not here either, he does not want to listen to this – said, for example, that even the Socialists in England would now finally vote in favour of the euro. I have to say if he means that, he can't read a paper! Last week at the party meeting Mr. Blair expressly explained – here in the "Herald Tribune" you can read it! –: [[The speaker shall keep an issue up to date]] We do not think of changing our policy on the timetable for the euro. But here Mr Klubobmann Khol says the opposite. I think he can read a newspaper, Mr. Finanzminister, I mean, reading an English newspaper. [[Federal Minister Edlinger is not present in the meeting room.]] - Where is he? – Mr Klubobmann Khol can read this for sure. He can certainly see that policy on the roadmap has not changed at all. But that is also claimed, of course. You can say anything. In particular, Professor Novotny claims that, of course, you had a full grip on the budgetary problem, the approaches, including in the field of pensions. Ladies and gentlemen! You know exactly that today is a meeting of the Council of Ministers and that last night it did not work at all that no agreement was reached in the reform of pensions. But this is the potential liability in this budget. This potential liability is much higher than what you have shown to be a budget deficit today. But this will be pushed into the future, and the next government will do it. I know you don't mean it well with the liberals, but we're going to have to blow this whole shit away. The main point here is this potential commitment in the budget. At the same time, however, Mr Novotny has the forehead to say that debt policy is over. The budget deficits have ended. However, according to his own predictions, the deficits will remain between 68 billion and 70 billion schilling over the next three years. And what does he say here in Parliament? – Debt policy, deficit policy has ended. You can't believe a word! I can only congratulate the three speakers of the opposition parties on their excellent analyses of this budget. I don't think it's better to get it to the point. The fact that the Minister is not present and does not want to hear such things has its reason for not wanting to take note of reality. This refusal of reality is what has brought us to this point. The pious first speakers of the government parties, Novotny and Khol, have, of course, also made their contribution with their health prayers. They have made it clear that in Austria there are no structural reforms which still do not want to be explained to the public, that the public does not want to be involved in the problem. This is not to be done during schilling. The population should die as stupid as possible. Get in the euro, no ifs and buts! Don't allow any discussion! Get in the budget without If and But! - That's your policy. You don't even present the right numbers. And if you say that's a swindle budget, you come up with comic quotations. I fully endorse what Mr Haselsteiner said last year: that the budget has an approach to a swindle budget. I say to you that these approaches will be consolidated in the 1998 budget. That's more than just an approach to a swindle budget. Mr State Secretary, let this be done to the Minister. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] A final word on the international field. Today we have done a lot of Nabelbeschau and always talked about Austria, looked at how it has been in Austria in recent years and what it is like today. Let us take a look at how our positions on competitiveness in European markets have developed. The fact is that every year we fall by three to five places in the competition statistics of our European trading partners. Mr State Secretary! In 1995 we dropped from place 11 to place 16 and in 1996 to place 19. The new calculations even show place for this year 21. That is to say, as the only EU country, we have significantly deteriorated our competitive position and significantly increased the bureaucracy index. The state administration is inflated as never before. If we are talking today about structural reforms and savings measures, we are not talking about reduction in performance, but about reductions in non-performance, for which you are ultimately responsible with your privilege economy and waste management.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e4270	I now give the floor to Mr Dr Kier. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e4292	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Key aspects have already been shed light on. The most dramatic example that was presented to us was on and on, the empty box not written by all or not by all understood ones. I would like to return to the remarks made by my colleague Mr Haselsteiner and in this context, above all, to the Federal Minister, Edlinger, who, unfortunately, is now absent, who was so amazed at these metaphors, which unfortunately is super clear. It is located in this box a sheet of paper, but that was empty. One could have written on this sheet as well: "Ruster explanation", it would still have been empty, but would have illuminated the whole drama of the political situation better. We are being presented here, as a government, through announcements which it does not then understand, is faced with the situation that a budget speaker of an opposition party with fug and law can prove that we are debating here a budget which lacks the real foundations, namely the measures that should ultimately be reflected in the budget. This depends, as I believe, on the fact that, among other things, we are also working for very uncertain reasons of figures. Mr Mertel, who is unfortunately not here now, has wondered how to interpret figures. I have to tell you, Mrs Mertel, or I tell you, Mr State Secretary: You have to be able to read numbers too! You're not just the numbers there. Figures are in a total context. That is why our group has also tabled a request to which I would like to refer briefly because, as I believe, it is appropriate. This request calls for us to finally move on to be discussed here in this House before the proposal for the next year for the accounting of the already reportable previous year. If we had made a budget for the next period, if we had already made the final report on the last year, which was drawn up by the Minister and the Court of Auditors, then some number uncertainty would be removed. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: We got it yesterday!]] We therefore believe that this order should also be laid down in the law. This, in fact, does not correspond to what we naturally expect from the trading companies, according to the Commercial Code! We should also apply this to ourselves. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] There you can no longer age over some of the things that may now look as if it were mirror fighting. Now, the members of the opposition are always kept in mind that they sometimes prove the lack of material content of the budget figures with charming adverbs such as "suddenness" – words, which they always take from the vocabulary of the Vice-Cancellor, which sometimes gives much more elaborateness of itself. Then it would no longer be possible to grow older. The central criticism from my point of view, from the point of view of a social speaker, is: This law lacks budgetary truth. Although there are numbers here, whether they are voting or not, we will not know until we know the accompanying laws. Now we have to take note of these figures. Or is this perhaps the new form of a so-called "structured social policy"? Is it possible that you are writing down numbers and then somehow trying to place and bend the results in them? – That’s dishonest, and that’s exactly what causes people to be confounded. There is already the possibility of not exceeding certain figures and then looking at what reforms are needed in order to actually deal with these amounts. This is a reasonable process. But it is unfair if you present numbers here, but do not tell us, on the basis of which binding assumptions You've developed these numbers. It seems that the assumptions of the Rust Declaration are not, we have learned, because in the Rust Declaration, pension reforms have been announced, which may still be decided on Friday in any kind of mutilated form, but which will not be a real reform; we already know today. The Federal Minister has said here that it is not a savings budget – I have written it down extra; at the end of his speech he then changed it to the word "sparpaket", perhaps he meant the other one – because according to Federal Minister Edlinger Sparen, expenditure-side restrictions meant restrictions on performance. Does he really think that one-dimensional? Has he never heard the term "sustainability"? Does he not know what a sustainable social policy is? The fact that social policy must be economical is certainly essential. But it's sustainable when it keeps over generations. What is evident here in the budget does not show anything like that. The Federal Minister has praised himself here and said that it has succeeded in finding agreement with the Pensionist Associations on a significant increase. I must say that in the distribution of something more – in this case it is not unlawful for pensions to be adjusted; I do not want to be misunderstood now – these mechanisms have all worked, but when re-transmitted they fail! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] But that's the decisive thing, as I mean. Saving means spending money more meaningfully and not financing the budget as much as possible with ever-new debts. That means saving. Saving means making the money useful, sustainable and effective use. That means saving, not shortening benefits. It may well be that certain benefits have to be relativized, for example if they lack social security. My colleague Haselsteiner also referred to our family transfer model, which – with the same volume – would turn to child poverty very strongly and actually eliminate it, taking everything in everything. Of course, this would have to lead to a redeployment, and one would put it where people can solve the problem with their own responsibility and from their own incomes. The area of unemployment is treated very strangely and very dilatorally in this budget. Pre-voicers have already pointed out that much more funds are now being devoted to unemployment insurance contributions in order to support pension funds. We assume that it will be even more so than is now apparent in the budget, because a certain budget approach is depressingly presented. There has been an amount of 2.5 billion, but we have known for years – in this place for years always 2.5 billion – that at the end of the year it is always 5 billion. So we expect something else to flow under this title. This, however, has the "advantage" – also to the budgetary truth – that you can pretend to spend a lot of money on your so-called employment policy. In fact, you show the money a short time ago, then take it away again and give it the pension funds. This is, of course, statistically effective in the labour markets, because it can make the unemployment figures statistically beautiful. But this is not an active labour market policy. But it becomes much more interesting to look closer at these figures, which are so innocent. Mr State Secretary! I would ask you to listen carefully, because you will need a reply, although perhaps not today, but certainly tomorrow or the day after. If you look at these figures more closely, you can see how you really estimate economic development. Mr. Klubobmann Khol – he is not here either – told us that everything will be great, the employment development will be brilliant, we will have a shortage of labour and perhaps have to recruit host workers again – horribile dictu. Such a rosy scenario has drawn Mr. Khol: Everything will be wonderful, and public debt will disappear. I have to say, I don't see it that way. I've recorded two numbers that I don't want to keep from you. 1986, when this coalition government took place in a slightly different composition, but with the same attitude – and this attitude has remained completely unreformed to this day – the consolidated government debt in Maastricht – together with the debt of all public budgets – has amounted to 780 billion schilling. Today, 1997, these debts amount to 1,800 billion schilling. This is an increase of 130 percent that we must not be proud of! But back to employment policy or to the employment effectiveness of policy. If you look at the corresponding figures, you can see that the budget includes unemployment insurance contributions of around 46.7 billion schillings. It's inconspicuous at first. If one compares this with the current budget approach for this year, then one can see the amount of 47.5 billion standing there. If you make the arithmetical sum and subtract the smaller amount, then you see, next year you expect unemployment insurance contributions, which are a total of about 760 million schilling, and this, although you have, on the one hand, the highest contribution base, takes everything into consideration, although you want to have something in the field of minor employment. So you expect that next year, by 760 million schillings, less unemployment insurance contributions will flow than you have estimated for this year. But if employment is going to start as you say, and if everything is going to develop as cheaply as it is, then it is impossible to think! In fact, you have budgeted here the self-esteem of reality. They expect unemployment to rise and employment and wages to decline. And if you want to dispute this, you will have to prove it very complicated! It's gonna be very complicated. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] That says more than anything beautiful coloring about your true assessment, and in this case that is what stands here, perhaps even the budgetary truth. It is sometimes quite good if the individual chapters in the Federal proposal do not all come from one hand. This may not be quite in keeping with one another at times, but this is obviously the budgetary truth! For I can't imagine that someone who makes a budget that grumbles and moans in his joints is artificially lower in revenue than he expects. I don't think so. They therefore expect employment to decline and unemployment insurance contributions to be reduced. That means: Unemployment will rise. That's what you're going to expect. How does your budget affect unemployment benefit? – Interesting! It's sinking too! They estimate only 14.5 billion for next year. Today, another 15.2 billion shillings are estimated. They therefore compensate for the reduction in unemployment insurance contributions by around 700 million to 800 million by simply writing into the budget that some 700 million schillings will also be reduced in unemployment benefits. I don't know how you're gonna do that. You are likely to reduce the claims of the unemployed – this is the only way to do so, so you will pay less. They themselves assume that there will be more unemployed and fewer workers, but at the same time you assume that less money is needed for the unemployed. The fact that you are also going back from 1 billion to 600 million schilling in the case of special emergency aid and "parking" another 400 million there as a success of your policy is double macabre against the increase in unemployment that you yourself have accepted, because in this sense you assume that you will need about 1.1 billion shillings in unemployment and emergency aid together than was foreseen in the 1997 budget. This approach would be a welcome one if, at the same time, you had assumed in your budget that employment was actually rising. You do not, however, because you have budgeted the opposite. That's honest, but it's defying. In this case, this position may be expressly excluded from the charming adverb "sickness". Or do you want to apply the bowls retreat tactics and say: This figure has dwindled, and in reality we count on 49 billion, but we have only written 47 billion, so that we have a better result at the time of execution!? - But I don't think so. That is why I say to you: That's quite defying. And all that my colleague Haselsteiner and also the budget speakers of the other opposition parties have said about this example is extraordinarily plastic. This is actually proof that you do not believe your own optimistic statements. And in this case you are right, because in the policy you are pursuing, the economic announcements you are spreading are, indeed, unbelievable, they cannot be true at all. Finally, a reference to two social aspects in your budget. The pension reform is completely out of date. The Federal Minister has already cautiously retreated by saying that the increase was successful and that the other had time. Yes, it is time for you, but not for those who have to pay it, for those who want to live in security that they will find a sustainablely consolidated system tomorrow, the day after and even in 2010. And there's nothing going on here. However, you have successfully frozen the karenz money. There's what You have recognized the pension, apparently not paid. Obviously, the benefits for people who are in Karenz for the sake of infant care are not in need of valorization, since they seem to have no change in the cost of living, but for pensioners – or why did you make this happen? In the care money, you budget an unstained trend. And we know from the execution that you are doing better than budgeting. In part, you still pretend that nothing would change, but we know that In fact, you are already thinking about how you can argue about 30 percent reductions, precisely when the care money is used as it was meant, namely to support the budget in the self-help associations, which are sometimes called "family" by you, in particular. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: This proposal came from your ranks! He was rejected by us! Strictly rejected!]] In any case, then, it may be possible to prove the use of evidence in each individual case, but only to prove the good faith and the accompanying control because, of course, there can also be abuse in the families, Mr Feurstein. There may be the unreasonable nephew who "absolutes" the heir, and vice versa the niece who may harm the uncle. That's all there is, so you need control there. But if the control of you is so misinterpreted, Mr. Feurstein, that you think about whether you should not cut your 2 500 S care allowance by 30 per cent to people who are not exclusively invoiced – with invoice, turnover tax and accounting – between close relatives, then choose an approach that apparently does not go from the man who is responsible for his own, but from the man who has been rolled down by the social administration. And we don't like that! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Against this background, to make any proposal for a further reform, such as the conversion of social security systems by decoupling from any forced connection with the previously employed self-employed, would really be a shame, for you would just say again: That's some utopia; that's not easy to finance!; or might be They even say: It's not eligible for funding at all! That is why I say to you: What you are doing here in social policy is not financeable, or simply in that you are removing everything step by step, for example by shortening the approaches for unemployment benefit and special emergency aid providers by 1.1 billion schilling, even though you yourself assume that the figures will rise. And this is a social policy that we do not support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e4379	Mr Ollinger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Please, honourable Member. Voluntary time limit: 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e4401	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Minister! High house! I believe that my previous speakers have already made quite some clear that it is very difficult – even for the opposition – to speak to a budget whose important key figures are not yet fixed. While we are discussing the budget here, some cornerstones of this budget are being negotiated in another place. It was yesterday, and I suppose it's true today. It is still going to take some time for us to start from a fictitious budget and somehow refer to it, while at the same time negotiating important foundations for this budget. I will therefore not go further on what the problem is, but I will try to figure out what I think are the major mistakes of this budget. This is, of course, related to your announcement policy on the Rust Klausur, but not just with it. In my opinion, the first capital mistake in this budget – and that should have become clear enough to you in the last few weeks – is the link between budget consolidation and a pension reform. What you've done and what you're doing here with the budget, with the federal financial law and the accompanying laws, is a "pension reform" – under quotation marks – that provides short-term revenue for the budget without making long-term prospects in the sense of a solidary security of the pension system, in the sense of a harmonious design. I believe that the second capital mistake is that at the expense of labour market policy you are turning to pension insurance and that this policy, which my previous speaker has worked out very precisely, also with the key figures set out in the budget, at the expense of the unemployed, the emergency workers, the pensioners. It surprises me, with what courage the SPÖ's budget spokesmen can go out of here and say: Of course, I would have liked to see the other transfer payments increased, but they have not been increased, and of course we will try to do something for the young families in the next few years. However, he has been silent about what he wants to do, because this government and also Mr Budgetary Spokesman have helped in the last few years to eliminate one of the elements that has been most socially political and distributionist for young families, namely birth aid. – So this is the second capital mistake. In my view, the third error in capital is that you are completely in agreement in the government on the issue of family policy. From this, Mr Minister, this government, depending on how the Constitutional Court will decide, could still grow up with serious problems. They are unable to draw up a concept for a family policy, which also gives clear outlines to the Constitutional Court. Do you want to fight family poverty first and foremost, or do you want to force a concept as it is obviously operated by the ÖVP, which highlights a fictitious tax justice between families with children and childless people? – This at the expense of the socially weak, at the expense of those who have already been punished by your family policy in recent years: by removing the birth grant, by removing the school travel subsidies, by removing and reducing the home travel allowance, by removing and reducing in other areas, such as school books, et cetera. All of this has been forced by your side in recent years. And we know - we discussed this last year on the basis of the Wifo distribution report - that the distribution policies that you have put in place actually have the poorest who can afford the least. They maintain, without consequence, that: They disagree in the government on the question of family policy, whether the poor should actually get more or whether the rich should get more in the future. You can't decide, and that's gonna have consequences, I guess. At some point, even though the Constitutional Court may still delay its judgment, this government will have to decide how it will deal with this knowledge of the Constitutional Court. I cannot imagine at the best of my will – but perhaps I will be surprised – that the Constitutional Court is going to go completely away from its previous saying practice in this respect. And then we have a problem. Then we have a problem, which might not be a direct consequence of the 1998 budget, but at the latest of the 1999 or 2000 budgets. This is your responsibility, ladies and gentlemen. They should get together on this, because it does not matter if a budget hole of perhaps 50 or 100 billion schilling is created. So I look at how you would then react, if you would then pull your shoulders and say: So the Constitutional Court has just decided, and we now have 50 or 100 billion shillings less, for which the rich families have more and the poor less. – That could be a consequence. I then look at how you react to it and how you would represent it before the electorate, because you cannot decide on this question because you have controversial views on this issue. This is the third error in capital which makes this budget unbelievable, because it already contains an advance on the 1999 budget, which we do not yet decide, but which is in principle in it. That is why, I believe, you must also be measured by what you have done here. And these achievements, ladies and gentlemen, are not enough. I will return once again to link budget financing with pension reform. I think it is really fatal that you from the unemployment insurance sector – Mr Kier of the Liberals has made it clear what really are the problems in these budget approaches – that you are from these budget heads, the insurance funds, despite the development that we all unfortunately have to expect in two years, take out 15 billion schilling, without adding the wicker, and, so to speak, first of all transfer to the general budget pot and then transfer from there to the pension stopper. 15 billion schilling! At the same time, the amounts for active labour market policy are frozen, to over 5 billion schilling. This is in view of a situation, Mr Minister, in which we have discussed in recent days – from your side – the successes or failures in the question of apprentices, but at the same time we have not discussed what the labour market figures already reflect, namely that the gaps in the employment of older workers are increasing. They are not aware that there are already enormous increases in the number of older people who have increased by almost 20% from September 1996 to September 1997. I can remember that last year you were a very big member of the government, and you said: We have invented something, a bonus malus system, a miracle means by which we will prevent unemployment from rising in the area of older people. Now we have this system. We know how it is. And almost all the opposition parties have pointed out that it will not work, that it will not take hold. But now you're not ready to go out here and say: It didn't work out that way. They are hiding, and – even worse – they are not taking precautions so that effective action can be taken. What is happening on the labour market is indeed a huge risk potential – not only with regard to the financing of pensions, but also because an increasing proportion of people are becoming unemployed. I don't care if it's young people or older people. Both are bad. Of course, the fight against youth unemployment is a priority. But you also have to ask yourself whether the measures you have taken are sufficient if they are good. Because what you're doing now, of the almost 5 billion, only 1.5 billion for apprentice subsidies, is not a permanent measure to actually secure apprenticeship employment or youth employment. You have to think more about it, ladies and gentlemen. There are already measures – we have already proposed them – from the training levy to structural reforms in the field of education, which would be appropriate to improve something for young people. But you didn't put these. In the short term, you have converted 1.5 billion schilling from the budget in favour of young people, and now you have to realize that this short-term upheaval has the effect of lacking appropriate labour market policies in the area of older unemployed people who have been removed from the money. Next year, we will then discuss the issue of old age unemployment, because you may be going back to it again, and next year we will discuss youth unemployment again. Ladies and gentlemen! That's not a concept. You would have the opportunity, precisely because of the existing insurance contributions in the field of unemployment insurance, to actually consider concepts and effective measures. This means that I come to another area, which is not included in the Federal Finance Act, but still in the accompanying laws. We do not know, however, whether he will stay in permanently. These are the very useful measures proposed by the Minister for Social Affairs in terms of sliding pensions, the right to part-time work for older workers, the Sabbath years, the work leave, and the job rotation models. I believe that this is a sensible step forward. We have always called for these measures in all debates. Now it turns out that they are apparently still open because they are not accepted by the economy. But what I regret more is that these measures are so committed that they cannot actually be attractive. For one thing you can believe me: If I can only promise someone who wants to go on a job leave, he'll get a compensation at the level of the low-measured karenz money, then that's not very attractive. The Danish labour market administration has only been successful with the introduction of work leave because there is a very high unemployment benefit there and because the compensation for work leave is also correspondingly high. This is a big difference to what you have announced for Austria. Accordingly, the approaches to the funds and to the number of persons who will claim this work leave are limited. The Austrians' willingness to actually claim such funds will therefore be small. I therefore think this is a wrong measure because it is already half-hearted in its approach. And I assume that in the negotiations that you are likely to have on these issues in the coming weeks, these approaches will be further shortened, the measures will be further cut down in this area. Ladies and gentlemen! A few comments on pension reform. I told you: The error in capital is the link between fiscal consolidation and a long-term, solidar and harmonious pension reform. I think you have not even understood the approach and accepted that if I integrate it into the budget, it will not be possible. It was, of course, too strong the desires of the Minister of Finance or the Government in order not to highlight the need for the first time to raise "coal" for pension financing in the short term. They thought that the long-term effects would then be somehow produced and regulated. We have, I believe, pointed out very clearly that your concept of a pension reform involves that the next pension reform will be due at the end of next year and that the third pension reform will be due at the turn of the millennium, and that, of course, Mr Minister, you cannot claim and claim that you have made a permanent reform. Individual measures – which you have just negotiated – aim at drawing up the appropriate opinions by the end of next year, which include a new stage of pension reform. You can't write that into a law today. This means that, at the end of next year, the Economic and Social Council – and I do not know if another body was still involved – is to present results again and then a stage of the pension reform is to be decided again. I think that's wrong. This is not an approach that can actually eliminate the great uncertainty that exists in Austria. Even if you oppose it, ladies and gentlemen from the government and the government parties: With the way you have addressed this pension reform, as you obviously could not agree on this issue between the government parties, you have produced a good part of the uncertainty that is now the business of private insurance. These trees – it is clear – because there is a feeling among young people that the Federal Government and its policies are not only forgetting the old – their needs are not primarily thought of in their pension reform in the area of old age poverty – but they are especially forgetting the problems of the young. That's the real problem. They have created a climate that helps to reduce confidence in social security. You, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, have to take responsibility for this because of your infinite effort, as you have been putting this issue down for weeks now. Only: You don't. They would otherwise have to realize that if we really want to start a structural pension reform, this question will have to be separated from the budget question. All parties involved – not only the social partners, but also the opposition parties in this House – must stand together. Perhaps we are able to bring in elements of a pension reform that have a model character and, following the positive traditions of the Austrian social security system, produce something for the next millennium that really has the future and restores confidence in this social system to both young and old. However, with your policy, ladies and gentlemen, you are unfortunately not contributing to it. This is the biggest accusation; it stands above all three cardinal errors that I have already listed to you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e4512	The next speaker is Mr Eder. 10 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e4533	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! The first reading of the budget takes place against the background of a growing economic situation. If the gross domestic product was expected to grow by 1.4 percent in spring, the experts are already expected to increase by 1.6 percent, and the growth of the gross domestic product is expected to be 2.5 percent in 1998. Inflation is also a source of optimism. Unfortunately, however, it must also be noted that economic growth and the reduction of unemployment no longer go hand in hand. A large number of measures are therefore necessary to provide employment impulses in spite of budget consolidation. The draft budget to be discussed today corresponds to these intentions, despite the opposition’s unacknowledged calls. It must be noted that budgetary consolidation is not an objective for itself or any definition of the EU's regulations, as the liberals would like to believe, but in particular to continue to maintain the stable financial basis for the rehabilitation of employment and the social system. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The budget deficit will continue to decline in 1998, thus continuing the consolidation of the government budget successfully achieved by the 1996 and 1997 budgets. Nevertheless, economic experts stress that the net fiscal effect is positive, thus increasing the budget's overall demand. The objectives mentioned above can thus be achieved – something that could only dream of the blurred concepts of the liberals that we had to achieve over us in recent weeks. Finally, ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party, you are in fact dealing only with a redistribution of workers, in favour of the profits of entrepreneurs. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Gaugg: He doesn't even believe that!]] Of course, the construction industry deserves special attention when it comes to employment and budget. [[Abg. Gaugg: Take breaks from time to time so that colleagues can clap! It's so sweet to read it down!]] The 1998 and 1999 budget drafts therefore take particular account of this sector. In the civil engineering sector, the focus is in particular on the distribution of ASFINAG. It will, first of all, significantly relieve the budget, but secondly, it should not be forgotten that this ASFINAG-Neu has created a society whose primary task lies in the efficient management of the high-level road network in Austria. The formation of a group with the existing two separate road companies ÖSAG and ASG can also achieve numerous synergies, which have so far remained in the thickness of the bureaucracy. The resulting efficiency gains will therefore release funds that will be used more targetedly and with higher employment effects in the future. Finally, in the high-level road network, the operating gap is around 30 to 35 billion schilling. However, it must be stressed at this point that the high-level road network’s rapid loophole will require truck-road pricing. We must not accept unnecessary delays by, for example, proposing technical problems. A further consequence of the restructuring of the ASFINAG is that the allocation of construction measures in the Federal Roads sector could be significantly increased in the budget. Another important area of transport infrastructure is the railway. Annual investments of up to 12 billion schilling are planned here; the liability framework for the rail infrastructure company has only recently been increased. This can also guarantee thousands of jobs. Much has already been done by the housing offensive initiated by the Federal Government in recent years. Among other things, the significant increase in the supply of housing will lead to a fall in housing rents, which, in turn, will significantly dampen inflation. The further increase in housing funding from 30.1 billion Schilling in 1997 to 31.1 billion Schilling in 1998 and, finally, 32.6 billion Schilling in 1999 will provide significant impetus in the coming years. However, new funding opportunities should also be considered by the countries. Vienna, for example, provides a good example in the old house renovation area, which is particularly intensive in employment. In my view, more attention should also be paid to the area of thermal insulation in general and to contracting with public buildings in particular. Economic researchers have calculated that in the next decade investment in the thermal insulation of old buildings could be created between 75 000 and 138 000 permanent jobs. It is also necessary to stress the exemplary use of non-profit construction associations, which have contributed significantly to ensuring employment in the construction sector. It is all the more incomprehensible when necessary steps to achieve synergies in this sector are discredited by parts of the opposition through forward-looking political small-scale actions – moreover, with the negation of all economic and social aspects. Special laws at the expense of the tenants – for example, unfortunately, it is also demanded by Mr Van der Bellen – may be able to afford university professors, managing directors or section heads – the latter can easily pay for this from part of their Supervisory Board fees – but the vast majority of Austrians cannot do so. Therefore, each politician with only a spark of social understanding will have to give a clear rejection to the proposals that have been made, including you, Mr Van der Bellen. Furthermore, housing impulses are triggered by the package in the area of building savings. Building savings will not only be preserved as an attractive investment form, but will also increase the amount of loans in order to facilitate access to building savings. Construction savings can also be used in future for the acquisition of rental and cooperative dwellings. Finally, the further transfer of properties to the Bundesimmobiliengesellschaft in the building area will also set accents. However, finally, a complete catalogue and categorisation of the properties and buildings of the federal government should be carried out, with the aim of achieving efficient management. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: The Eder could facilitate the work and give the speech – not just read it down!]] High house! Investments in residential construction, road construction, Schiene et cetera are of major importance for Austria's economic location and for the security of employment in our country. It is therefore gratifying that, despite the necessary consolidation rate in both the 1998 and 1999 budgets, these areas were given the greatest consideration. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e4612	Mr Feurstein. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e4633	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I have the impression that some people do not like to hear this budget of the consolidation rate which was started in 1996. I should like to make it clear that the 1996 accounts, which I am saying, especially in the direction of Mr Kier, have been in possession of this paper since yesterday, clearly demonstrate that the budget figures adopted for the 1996 budget were strictly respected in the budget implementation. The budget presented in 1996 was correct and it confirmed the consolidation rate. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is also due to the figures available for 1997. We can also see for 1997 that the budgetary targets have been complied with. [[Abg. Gaugg: There was no edellinger on the vehicle yet!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The government has set clear priorities and principles for the 1998 and 1999 budgets and presented them to the public since July. Everyone can understand what the 1998 and 1999 budgets will look like in their principles and orientations. We have the possibility of an overall assessment which has not been made before. This assessment for a total of two years guarantees us to be able to discuss the 1998 budget comprehensively. Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals, but also of the other opposition parties: The arguments you have put here simply do not vote. We have started a clear consolidation course. I would just like to mention three points from this consolidation course: We have today an unemployment insurance scheme, which is completely rehabilitated, an unemployment insurance scheme, which even produces surpluses. We are now being criticized because these surpluses are being used for other active labour market policies. Let us be glad that we can be active in the labour market and not all the resources must be used for unemployment insurance. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Gaugg: Why is the ÖGB not for if everything is good?]] Ladies and gentlemen! There is a surplus of more than 4 billion schilling planned in 1998 – without any increase in contributions! – I still come to the pensions to talk! [[Abg. Gaugg: Then why is the ÖGB not for that?]] We have a health insurance, which was questioned very critically last year, also here in the House. There were many who asked: How will health insurance continue? – Minister Hums and others – including me – were strongly criticized by you at the time, by the opposition, because of the consolidation course. Today, we can say that health insurance companies are rehabilitated, not by self-preservation, but by structural measures. I would like to make that very clear. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] Health insurance providers can already consider what improvements and what benefits they can provide for the insured in the future in order to ensure comprehensive health insurance protection. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Similarly stored is the financing of pension insurance. Under Androsch and Dallinger, contributions were constantly increased – within a few years – from 14 percent to 22.8 percent. When FPÖ left the government, the federal contribution for pensions was 31 percent. Ladies and gentlemen: 31 percent! Not through increases in contributions or reductions in pensions, but through structural measures, we were able to reduce this federal contribution to 23.9% in 1996. In 1997, it will be 23.9% and remain at the same level in the next few years. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: How does this look in absolute numbers?]] [[Abg. Gaugg: People get the money out of the bag!]] It's clear: If we have a nominal increase, the absolute numbers rise. However, the percentage is decisive: What is the share of the budget to be financed? – This contribution has been radically reduced, without pension cuts, without an increase in contributions. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that you do not like to hear this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Gaugg: You don't even know which will come! Will the ÖGB come along?]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The Gaugg can best spell!]] My group has strongly advocated that we should not now decide on short-term measures to finance the budgets in the framework of pensions, but that the policy of uncertainty, which has been pursued by many, not only by the opposition, but also by some experts who have not correctly presented the situation, should stop. We have therefore requested that the government, the Council of Ministers, submit a closed approach to longer-term financing of pensions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It will be a moderate pension reform. – I say this quite consciously; You know the ministerial draft. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Tomorrow you will have the government template on the table, ladies and gentlemen. We will then discuss this government template together in the Committee on Hearing. We have deliberately agreed a hearing with experts to get a comprehensive view of this pension reform. I hope that you, too, will bring your experts to this hearing about the pension reform – as far as you have it and they will at all declare themselves willing to act for the liberals. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: Yes, if they have any!]] But I would like to say something to you, ladies and gentlemen: An important prerequisite for this pension reform is that we ensure the income of older people that they must not be impoverished. I just call you two numbers: In 1994, there were still 280 000 compensation recipients. These are those persons who receive a minimum income corresponding to the compensatory allowance rate. At the end of 1996, there were still 265,000, so we have been able to lead 15 000 Austrians across this so-called poverty line – without any increase in contributions. We didn't make a reduction in the pension. An important measure that we have put in place here! [[Abg. Gaugg: 1 million Austrians live below the poverty line! The family poverty didn't even think of it!]] This pension reform has a very important goal of avoiding social hardships, ladies and gentlemen – and I have come to an end. We will ensure that no social hardships occur. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am also responding to the letter addressed to us by the ÖGB and the socialist trade unionists. Ladies and gentlemen! Today, 99 percent of Austrians have a health insurance, but unfortunately only 70 percent have a pension insurance. Our aim would be – and this is also a concern of my group – to increase the share of pension insurance to 90 to 95 percent. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] An essential approach to pension reform is going in the direction of all of us being integrated into our social system. This reform is to be seen as a long-term measure, a measure that goes beyond the year 2000. It is planned for a longer period of time. I am convinced that we will achieve the desired results on this issue, thus avoiding or suffocating the uncertainty that you and many others have done, either by the appropriate measures in the germ.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e4837	Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Schreiner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e4858	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mr Feurstein, as long as your group is in the government together with the Socialists, unfortunately this uncertainty will not turn away from us because you will not bring any reform together. That is the reality, I must tell you from this point on. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I would now like to comment on Mr Eder's comments – unfortunately, he is not in the hall. [[Call the SPÖ: He's here!]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: He's here, but he hasn't gotten caught by reading yet!]] Mr Eder said that the proposals we have made on tax policy would be at the expense of the working population and would be in favour of the profits of entrepreneurs. High house! Our proposals aim at two areas: a reform of wage and income tax – such as the elimination of cold progression and its reduction; a measure affecting 3 million self-employed persons; and, on the other hand, we want to eliminate the unclaimed profit, which in turn would strengthen entrepreneurs and increase their profits. We want both: on the one hand, to relieve the working population and on the other hand to enable entrepreneurs to become more competitive through better yields. – But these proposals criticize the Social Democrats! I do not know where Mr Eder takes the courage to simply say that these proposals were at the expense of the working population. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.]] He should go to the farms once and listen to what people say every month when they see their wages bill and regret to see what is charged to them in deductions! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr State Secretary! I would now like to speak on the budget. This budget has already been highly criticised – let me summarize it as follows: The budget, as we have today, without accompanying laws, but with massive advances on future generations, on future revenue, is an economic fairy tale book. In short, a fairy tale book that should perhaps be a favorite Christmas gift for us, but you will still have to work hard on it so that this fairy tale book gets a content that is not an economic charlatanerie. – Until now, it is economic charlatanry, what you are doing with this budget template, Mr State Secretary! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The previous speakers of my group have already referred to the different views in this area. Mr State Secretary! They claim that the deficit would represent 2.7 percent and 67 billion schilling. Mr Trattner has shown you very credible and economically comprehensible that it would in itself be 4.3 percent if you were to budget properly and fulfill your commitment in the way that she has a decent businessman in the private sector who does not make himself richer than he is, choosing realistic figures for his planning bill. You are in itself a case for negligent Krida, if you believe to get over the rounds with such a budget! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Calls of the Abg. Dr. Karlsson.]] I already know that there are efforts to remove the fact of the negligent Krida from the criminal code, but I believe that one can also define this type of budget creation by the term "creative accounting" in order to achieve the convergence criteria, those convergence criteria, also called Maastricht criteria, which are now trying to create Italy, France or Belgium all with the same "creative accounting". What would be important in the case of an estimate for 1998? – There should be scope for investment in order to secure Austria's economic location in order to reduce the exploding external trade deficit in order to increase export opportunities for businesses. Mr State Secretary! In the case of the exchange of goods and services for 1995, a hole of 40 billion, with the trade deficit of one of 100 billion schillings. We are taking the lead in the EU, and only Greece is behind us. With these figures we are the last place! – The falling revenue in the tourism sector will contribute to this. We have no room for counter-tax, because we just take the high interest rate. Mr State Secretary! I believe that we are currently having a flicking work in fiscal policy, one that has always produced only preferential effects in recent years and that with the introduction of the 13th. Sales tax dates started – but that was before your government activity. Goods are being achieved – for example, the so-called statements that have already been discussed in the field of employee representation. Furthermore, as flickwerk, the minimum corporation tax is to be called, since the Constitutional Court has abolished the 50 000 S minimum royalties and the tax is now 25 000 S. But now, in turn, a constitutional court complaint is being prepared. They create sham profits at companies, and these are taxed. The Federal Minister of Finance is talking about a tax harmonisation within the European Union, which he intends to launch next year when Austria takes over the EU Presidency. But I think he should do the homework in Austria first before he is in the European Union from 1. In July 1998, tax harmonisation began, because the European Union is writing it a lot into the main book! – Commissioner Monti’s third EU paper clearly states: [[Complaints with the liberals]] The high taxation of the labour factor has a negative impact on the level of employment in Europe. 4 percentage points of the current unemployment rate are due to increased taxation of the labour factor. – But they increase everything possible in the area of additional wage costs. They even go so far as to tax the apprentices, to abolish the payroll tax, but to introduce a local tax for it. They increase the additional wage costs with very tireless acribie, only that the factor labour should be relieved by lower taxes, leave that aside! Mr State Secretary! To sum up, I believe that it would be necessary to note in this budget that a total levy rate of 45.7 per cent is only more difficult for Austrians to bear. We need to create a budget that will once enable Austrian taxpayers to pay less taxes so that they have more money for private consumption and are secured by increased private demand from Austria's economic location, because this will not work with exports alone. We need a reasonable basis for new budgets so that we can get through the rounds in the future. I therefore believe that it is necessary for all of us to consider making the right step towards fiscal policy when it comes to creating the budget, so that we come to predictable figures for the future. Businesses today face the problem that they do not know whether a tax law, which is adopted today, is still in force in half a year – or whether it may be amended retroactively. Mr State Secretary! We liberals demand that entrepreneurs be allowed a five-year planning period in which they will be left alone from the tax policy point of view of the State. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This is necessary because they simply need parameters where they can orient themselves. It is not a question of changing the tax legislation retroactively, which is really a matter of constitutional concern, and thus significantly affecting the number of companies and plannings afterwards. This process is generally detrimental to Austria's economic location. That is why we will reject the not very useful proposal of the 1998 budget.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e4957	Mrs Schaffenrath is next spoken. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e4978	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I listened very carefully to the Minister for Finance's budget speech, and he meant that this budget would clearly express what the Federal Government has done in terms of political tasks and objectives. This budgetary policy and the wide range of structural reforms would increase employment, as he said, so that the fight against unemployment could be started. And in the end, the Minister of Finance said that employment and income would have grown more. I don't share his opinion. – That sounds good, but reality looks quite different. At any rate, reality looks different when it comes to women. From this point of view, Mr Mertel has put a lot of demands into the room, and I can only underline and support most of these demands. But I'm asking: Where do we find approaches to their implementation in this budget? And I also wonder, of course, whether the SPÖ would not be one of the two coalition parties in the last episode and could therefore have managed much more in this regard! The fact is that the employment rate of Austrian women is already below average in any case – and is also falling further. It is a fact that the unemployment rate among women increases disproportionately that the length of residence of women in unemployment is even greater than that of men – it has already been much longer. The income sheath also continues to rise: The difference in income between men and women is already more than 60 percent. The proposals, which are now in place in connection with the not yet completed pension reform, will put women in an even more difficult situation, because the proposal to calculate child care time by 8 000 S in future, rather than, as in the past, about 6 000 S, will not be able to offset the disadvantage of the longer calculation period. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Because we're talking about a calculation for these babysitting times of 8,000 s... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steibl.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about 8 000 s, and that is something! [[Abg. Dr. Sonja Moser: There are 2 100 S more!]] I do not dispute this, but I say that this amount of around 8 000 s actually gives a clear picture of the importance of women's work in this country. In any case, these 8 000 S will not be able to compensate for a longer conversion period. [[New call of the abg. Dr. Sonja Moser.]] I know, of course, that it has been 6 000 S so far, then it will be 8 000 S. But this will not make the herb fat if there is a 20-year calculation period. Of course, it is gratifying when the Minister of Finance announces that 12 billion schilling is being invested in railway development in particular, i.e. in structural measures. It is precisely in this area, however, that this will create jobs for men, because in these industrial sectors men are clearly dominated. This will continue to be the case in the future, because it is not enough if the Minister of Women only distributes brochures in which it is friendly: Girls can be more! but there are no concrete approaches in the whole field of education to direct this one-sided educational career of women in other directions. Mrs Mertel has already pointed out and has also shown with figures that, in the last episode, very many women leave working life because of childcare. - We know that, of course. The problem is not solved in this way, and we know that even these 600 million schillings for childcare have not yet made the necessary success, regardless of the fact that these 600 million have not even been exploited. There is still a lack of adequate childcare facilities. The Minister of Finance has at least recognized the need for financial support in connection with the re-entry of women into work, but it does not find itself in this budget an increased approach. I am curious about how it will finance this increased return aid for women who are really urgently needed. A founding offensive, which should in particular motivate women to set up businesses, has been repeatedly addressed, but no action has yet been taken. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: There are more young women today independently than before!]] – The situation is sad, Mrs. Tichy-Schreder; You know that. The proportion of women in the self-employed has declined anyway; there are no more women among the self-employed today than 40 years ago. Most women take over family businesses; Companies are more of a rarity in setting up new businesses. Clearly, there would be a need for appropriate initiatives here. We need measures that would take account of the very special situation of women. I say again clearly that, especially when it comes to childcare and care, the self-employed still have to take up a number of disadvantages. No wonder many women are discouraged in this direction! Nevertheless, very successful women's projects are being starved, and unfortunately the budget contains quite specific figures that prove this. So I can give all children an optimal care in the kindergarten of the Federal Chancellery: It is really not clear to me why a privileged kindergarten is spent more on funds than on all women-promoting projects in Austria together! I just don't seem to agree on the relationship. It is becoming increasingly clear that projects involving highly committed women with a lot of self-initiatives in the qualification and advice of other women – including in the direction of business start-up – are increasingly being suppressed, that unfortunately the AMS, which is dominated by social partnership and thus male, is taking on these tasks so to speak, but which has so far failed. On the question of equal treatment prosecutions, I would like to say: If we really want women to have fair access to working life and they can also expect fair pay, or at least they can help themselves if they fail, then this institution would be urgently necessary. We in Tyrol were promised at least the establishment of an equal treatment attorneyship. However, I have not been able to discover a budget approach! I hope the promise is valid for 1998, but that is not yet done, because we need equal treatment prosecutions in all the federal states. Even the Minister of Women presented the situation as alarming for women. Some 650 000 women have been alarmed by the popular desire with their signature, but in reality, I do not think the situation is taken sufficiently seriously. The Minister for Finance also referred to the education system and meant that it would be in his sense to ensure or improve the quality of this education system. He also spoke of a very successful apprentice offensive. Mr Maderthaner, in fact, believes that he will be able to accommodate all those young people who currently have no place – and there will be much more next year. I'd like to be willing to discuss a part lesson, a basic teaching, no matter how you want to call it. I believe that this idea should be debated if the basic requirement is to ensure that there is a permissiveness, which also leads to a higher conclusion, to a "standard teaching" or perhaps – in the event of appropriate development – to a conclusion that goes beyond that. In addition, training in the context of this teaching must include a school part as an essential prerequisite. However, this will not solve the apprenticeship problem. Although we will be able to accommodate young people, not all those we have still to accommodate. If Mr Maderthaner refers so proudly to the 3 000 additional apprenticeships, or to the teaching contracts that could be concluded, he must know, in my opinion, that this is not the result of newly created framework conditions which would have made apprenticeship training for entrepreneurs, but also for the trainees, much more attractive, but that this was indeed the result of a very massive funding action by the AMS and the countries. I share the concern expressed by Mr Haselsteiner and Mr Oellinger that this massive promotion, this exaggeration of the apprenticeships market, will fall on the minds of school leavers and school leavers of the coming year if we do not quickly create new conditions. The entire teaching budget also shows that there are no plans, projects and ambitions in this area that could bring about real change. I would like to admit that the scope is very limited, especially in the teaching budget. At 92 percent staff costs and also at a union that blocks everything when it comes to any privileges in its area, the scope is relatively low. That is why I do not understand the Minister of Finance in the final consequence when he speaks of a creative budget, because I really cannot discover creativity throughout the education sector. All relevant budget items were only rewritten linearly. There is an exception, namely the increase in staff costs by around 2.3 billion schilling. However, this is not a measure in the actual sense, but it is based only on the structural increase in salary among German teachers. There is a reduction – although not very consistent – of multiservices, but nevertheless there is still a ratio of four normal hours to an overtime in the field of vocational schools. I think that this is still too much in the face of between 8,000 and 10,000 unemployed young teachers. I cannot understand the claim that there should be a political achievement if at least part of the overtime that has not been done in the future is no longer to be paid. Because that still means that we are only talking about a part of it. There are still overtime hours in the school sector, which are not done, but are nevertheless paid. I cannot see any political achievement in the fact that there is an early retirement model for teachers, which I consider to be a privilege, even if there are deduction payments, and a disparity between other officials and officials. It is a privilege to be able to retire at 55 years of age. This privilege is, in the final consequence, contrary to all the other demands of the government in this context. Even a 20 - percent discount does not pain officials with an average retirement rate of 46,000 s. Their earnings are still clearly above the average earnings of Austrian workers, despite the downturn. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: But you can't compare apples to pears!]] One cannot compare apples with pears – but I think that it should not necessarily be kept in mind that the teacher is an apple and the other worker is a pear, Mrs Brinek! We have different systems, that is clear to me, but it's high time we came to alignments. However, the real underlying problems are not addressed. We stay with an anti-performance salary scheme. We stay with the biennial jumps that lead to the extreme rise at the end of the salary curve. We remain inflexibility of Pragmatization – Mr. Klubobmann Khol will also defend it "with teeth and claws". We remain with the anti-performance system of Pragmatization, school-proofing and so on. Unfortunately, the linear continuation in the budget also means that we cannot meet all the challenges facing school and education now. I mention only two areas – there would be a variety of them –, for example, the need to expand adult education. The Minister of Education uses the term "life-long learning" only to announce reforms, but none are launched, and there is no redeployment of the funds. The second point relates to the fact that we cannot meet the technological revolution in the last episode. There are no approaches to actually integrate new media into the school sector and into the classroom. Mr Finanzminister also addressed a slimmer, more efficient administration. I can tell him that despite the decline in the number of pupils, the number of staff in the national school authorities has been increased and the cost in the field of school supervision is 852 million schilling. If the government were serious with autonomy and partial justice, then it would certainly have to do away with this administration, which is totally party-political – as I would like to say – in this area. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! From my point of view, I do not see the desire for design, creativity and reform. If this budget is an expression of what the government has done to implement it will, I believe, not be very burdened with work in the next two years.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e5070	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Mr Kammerlander. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e5091	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen. It has already been said several times today, also by our group, but I would like to address some points once again, on the particular aspect of my role as a woman-political spokesperson of the Greens. On the one hand, the objective you are striving to achieve with this budget – the objective of employment policy and the creation of jobs that are in and out of support – is not visible and not recognizable. That is what my colleague Van der Bellen has already said. This is much higher for women. The objective is not only not visible and not recognizable, but it is even effective in the form of a boomerang, namely, in the sense that women lose jobs, that employment goes back and that women are pushed back home from jobs, so to speak, to the kitchen and to the stove. However recently, women will be even more disadvantaged in their income situation, because the dynamics will be much higher compared to previous years. This will increase the gap between the incomes of men and women who have always existed, so to speak, in a dynamic situation. In other words, your budget measures have a particularly negative and detrimental impact on women. This proves once again what has already been found: Your budget is not particularly original. It is a continuation of the savings budgets of the last two years. Even if you don't present a savings package this time – as in the past two years – there's something like a third savings package: an invisible savings package, something like a secret third savings package. This consists of the effects of the previous savings packages, of the long-term effects that are now taking place. We discussed yesterday, on the basis of the first readings, the corrections that we feel are urgently needed in the field of karenz money and leave, because you have made cuts which concern women in a massive way, including in the field of employment and employment. But that's just one of the measures. In spring, we asked in series about the savings in the public service and the extent to which they affect women in particular. When we saw to it that this series of questions was dealt with briefly, some of the very bad and sloppy responses from the various ministries showed that these measures were, of course, primarily taken by women: Posts will not be re-occupied, promotions will not be carried out, karenz leave representations will not be extended or women are forced to stay at home immediately after the karenz. All these causes have emerged, partly very clearly, black on white, in figures, in statistics. These are the longer-term effects of your two savings packages, which can only be correctly felt and, so to speak, comprehensible. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] Consider the savings in the public service, the stop in the public service. It turns out that he is particularly concerned with young people, young academics and young academics, and he is particularly concerned with women. Unfortunately, women still give up much too often, they give up and say: Then I stay at home, I stay with the children and do the homework. There is no real incentive for women to keep the job, perhaps there or there to fight for it. There are still, above all, no incentives and far too little incentives for women to connect and deal with households, children and work. I am therefore in the next tag regarding the savings and effects that can only be felt right now, the keyword child care facilities. I can only say it again and again: Years ago, in the 1994 election campaign, you promised the Austrians the "Kindergarten Billion". From the "Kindergarten Billions" have become a few million, which you have once disbursed. Now, however, we have to find in difficult research and inquiry series that not only additional childcare places have been created, but there or there child care facilities have been supported which have already been on the agenda. [[Abg. May. Steindl: That's not true!]] That's right, look at the answers to the questions! It is not true that 100 percent of these funds would have been used for additional childcare facilities, as it would have been in line with the "Kindergarten Billion" promise. The promise was to create additional childcare facilities to improve the situation, especially where this is necessary, outside the big cities, in rural areas. You can also look at the answers to the questions. We have made inquiries all over the country where we are represented and therefore have a relatively good picture of the situation. The vast differences between the cities and the smaller communities have also been shown. This situation does not in any way enable women to fulfil their duties in the profession and at home. All these are the effects of the savings packages, and I could list you a lot more, all I've listed to you in the past two years when it came to your savings. The consequences continue to work in a way that does not reduce them, but rather strengthens them, burdening women more and increasing in many areas. That is what I would like to call the third savings package, which is because you do not call it, but pretend that there is no such thing. You're pretending to be all over this time in public as if there were no more savings packages and as if we could breathe up. But that's not true, it's not true. There is a savings package, an indirect, a secret savings package that has its impact, and these are your actions over the past two years. To that end, you will not in any way meet your goal, which you repeatedly call rhetorical, namely the objective of job creation and employment policy. They are doing something more with this budget, and my colleague Ollinger has already pointed this out in his speech – and this, in particular, concerns women –: They believe that you can now use structurally urgently needed reforms such as the pension reform to make budget corrections at the same time. In this context, you are focusing on short-term measures and effects, and you are ignoring the fact that this was a fundamental structural reform. In particular, I have already told you from this speaker's point of view, they ignore the situation of women in particular. It is still true that more than half of women do not have an independent pension scheme and do not have an independent pension. All the measures that you are now trying to take and which are under discussion not only do not remedy this situation, but even worsen it. Longer settlement periods and all other measures are worsening the situation of women with regard to pension insurance, and they do not improve them. Above all, you do not take into account in this debate that CVs of women look completely different from those of men – provided that you can even start from these classic CVs. I am more and more doubted that we can still start from the classical CV with full employment today. This seems to be more and more rare. It's definitely not true for women. All that you are currently discussing – up to the integration of minor employees into social security – is not really something that helps women. It's just beauty surgery. It is true from the approach that it is appropriate to involve minor employees in social security, but that does not mean that these women subsequently have their own pension or even an existential insurance in old age. That cannot be the point at all. As you present this budget and this budget, it is again evident that you do not address the major problems, avoid them, make superficial corrections and make cosmetics, and, above all, I particularly blame you, take a gender-specific effect to the detriment of women. The equal treatment, as is actually provided for in the principle, will in no way justify you. In this sense, I can only be curious about what will come out of the pension reform, since for the first time – I find it particularly exciting – you have to fight with resistance from the various sections of the workers, whether it be from the union or – on the part of the ÖVP – from the ÖAAB. I am curious and excited about what comes out of it, and I only hope that in these sub-areas too, women will once again trust to say: We do not vote in favour of this, because neither this reform will help us, nor, and not at all, can it be achieved that the budget and the budget should only serve and encourage short-term action and the use of short-term cosmetics.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e5137	Mr Ing. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Gartlehner. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e5158	Mr President. Estimated Secretary of State! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The criticism of our colleagues from the opposition groups is partly factual and quite justified. None of us claim that we realize our dream budgets, all of us are aware that we must make a very disciplined budget in the context of budgetary discipline and preparatory measures for the European single currency. The criticism that some activity, which might need some budgetary approach, may be in need of improvement or correction. However, we ask not only to criticise what does not fit, but also to make proposals within the framework of the possibility, as might otherwise be redistributed. I missed today's criticism of the opposition series. It has made it very easy for the free budget speaker. Mr Trattner made a fiery appeal to the Minister of Finance when he said: Finally, create the conditions to ensure the labour market! He probably means Jörg Haiders Conlusio from Harvard, ladies and gentlemen: After six months, there is no unemployment benefit. You will not find such a budget approach with us. There is a genuinely serious and honest effort by this Federal Government to continue the budgetary consolidation course while at the same time maintaining social balance. You have already said to us in the budget programme that it is unscrupulous. You see now that the budget we are applying is that we are even slightly below the budget programme in revenue and expenditure. We know that the revenue in the budget proposals we are discussing today is very carefully planned, that we have no longer continued the linear calculation of the revenue situation, and that is why we expect the plans to last over two years. We have essentially covered expenditure for officials – the additional expenditure is fixed by 1 per cent – and any further expenditure increases need to be covered and concerned about other costs savings in the field of civil servants. There is no valorization in most areas of physical expenditure and discretionary expenditure, but this indicates that the bureaucracy and the ministries have a very high degree of austerity. There are exceptions in the field of ASVG and also in the area of the poorest of our society: in the area of the unemployed, of course, it is valorized. Further point: Several other activities and factors show that we are very likely to consider employment policy. We did not realize the 2.6% new debt originally planned in this budget, but, for the sake of employment policy, raised the 2.9% according to the Maastricht criterion. Of course, one can criticise how one of the previous speakers has done here that the Bank Austria funds are used to a certain extent for debt payments relating to ASFINAG. Of course, they will reduce our debt, but this means that the gap between the Austrian motorways will also succeed. This means that it will also put in place employment-effective measures. There are also other very positive indicators: We see that the KRAZAF cover is effective, that other important political objectives which the Federal Government has set itself in recent years are regulated and achieved within the framework of discipline. It is essentially in such a way that the main objectives are achieved: We will continue to reorganise the state budget, the process will progress rapidly, without the use of substantial budgetary tricks. We keep the good employment situation. We all know that the employment situation in Austria is much better after all than in most comparable European countries. We do not need to mention the successful fight against inflation: Inflation is the greatest scourge of the workers, the self-employed. We do more for the unself-employed if we have a favourable inflation rate than if we have high gross wage increases. I believe that this will achieve a very important point; the current fight against inflation has been the most successful for 10 years. We are regaining fiscal policy scope, and I also believe that sustainable structural effects are evident in the area of distribution justice and the balance of measures. Not least, the number of planning stations is reduced by 4 600, and the car fleet is also reduced by more than 800 motor vehicles. We also see, therefore, that what has always been blamed for, namely, that there is no saving in the field of administration, is strongly concerned. I think we can already say today that, with this budget, even though it has traditionally always been doubted by the opposition parties, we will be able to lead this debate again in the next year's financial year. This two-year programme also leads to a much better budgetary discipline in the administration. In this sense, I believe that we are making a successful budgetary policy, and I am convinced that we can be very proud of it in two years.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e5233	Mr Schwarzböck is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e5255	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Our time is characterized by profound international, global structural changes. Many of these structural changes are insecure to our fellow citizens, even causing fear in some areas. It is interesting that, in recent hours, there has been a debate here on the financial framework, as we want to deal with these structural changes and structural reforms from the point of view of the Republic of Austria, in which the opposition parties basically demand an acceleration of the structural reforms of the government for almost all areas, but at the same time, when we are reforming, go to the people and frighten them in connection with these reforms. Ratio, honesty and objective attitude are therefore difficult to reconcile in the political analysis. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to explain this to you on the basis of a few examples. It is indisputable that the EU's accession to Austria will accelerate structural reforms, in many cases even force them to do so. [[Call to the liberals: Among other things!]] The speakers of the FPÖ want to have implemented more profound structural reforms, but have taken a negative position on the EU, or it was their accession too early, or they did not want it in this form. It is quite logical that we should resolve these structural reforms, to which the government parties and the Federal Government are committed, more easily if we have a more predictable system, including the European currency. Its response to the aims of the Austrian Federal Government, namely that Austria should already participate in European monetary union in the first block, is: No euro! Too early! Not in this form! [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] I could list other examples, such as: Col. Schreiner, for example, as a tax expert, as a trader and tax advisor here, says: The objective of the FPÖ, particularly from its professional point of view, must be that a policy designed to enable the entrepreneur to adapt to the legislation for five years in the tax legislation. - Okay, ladies and gentlemen! Only: You have to say how you imagine implementing structural reforms even faster, while in the tax legislation you want to have five years in advance. [[Abg. Böhacker: We didn't say that! We want better predictability in the tax area!]] – Yes, we all want them, but then we also want them with clear consequences. Then do not say everywhere that everything is too slow, too comfortable and far too considerate! [[Prolonged calls of the Abg. Böhacker.]] They want clear rapid structural reforms. Then also confess to the consequences that are associated with it! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Böhacker: You are dishonest!]] That is democratically legitimate! You want it, so why are you denying the consequences of it? The first speaker of the Liberals, Mr. Hazelsteiner, quotes Robert Menasse from a remarkable article of the "Standard" on the Federal Chancellor's position on the role of the social partners. Robert Menasse believes that the chancellor should clean up with a sick social partnership. – It is also democratically legitimate for a critical writer to get through to such an opinion. I don't share them. They won't wonder about it: As representatives of the social partners, I recognise reform, but not in this view! [[Prolonged calls to the liberals.]] That Mr Haselsteiner says that the Federal Chancellor may clean up with the social partners, with this sick horse of Austria, can only lead to this answer: The LIF as a sickling germling may indeed strive for the recovery of a infant or an embryo, and not for the sick horse that moves in its disease – as you think – even more than the LIF will ever move or receive acceptance from the population to its reform ideas. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In contrast to the insistence of the social partners, their social content, their "great" reform ideas experience just 1.5, 2 percent of their consent. I therefore do not see the mass programme for the positive development of Austria in these views. The Greens want even faster reforms in two important areas: social and environmental. But I must say the following: The people's response to elections when political notes are distributed also shows that there is no mass programme from this point of view. It is true that democracy can certainly be a sausage, but there is nowhere to be said that the Austrians see in these programmes something they express in all their opinions or what we politicians experience every day in talking to our fellow citizens. What do people want in times of profound dynamic changes in which structural reforms and structural changes are on the agenda? In what direction do the longings of our fellow citizens go? – Stability, continuity, secure jobs, social peace, secure, attractive economic location in Austria. [[Abg. Mentil: All you can't offer!]] These are the longings of people, Mr Mentil, and to achieve them we are moving step by step at a very high level, because the 1998 budget meets these goals and expectations as well as the stability rate of recent years bears fruit. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: With increasing unemployment rates!]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: With increasing loads!]] 1.2% of the inflation rate has been mentioned, as well as a strong increase in exports. What makes Austria's economic location more attractive than this strong increase in exports? Our prosperity development also depends on this further development. [[Prolonged calls to the liberals.]] I say, out of direct concern for agriculture and farmers: In this 1998 draft budget, we also see a clear and indispensable protection of flanks to address the problems related to agriculture and farmers in that country. I am pleased that, in spite of all your prophecies, in spite of all your shortcomings, these negotiations between the Minister for Agriculture and the Minister for Finance have again succeeded in adopting a new budget pact of over 40 billion schilling the Europe Agreement for the period from 1999 to 2002, and we have been able to finalise it in the last few days with the federal states. This creates continuity, thus creating the security that farmers also need so that they can carry out the necessary structural reforms not only in the economic size but also in their multifunctional responsibility in the coming years under predictable conditions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We will, of course, discuss the various chapters and the Green Report even more in detail with regard to these issues. I do not want to waste my time now, but of course we are on the road in a considerable way with regard to the core points of our objectives. We have recently ensured 1.2 billion schilling to finance the promotion of an Austrian environment-oriented agriculture in Brussels. We have submitted a second programme for 1998 in the field of public transport after 1995, and we are continuing to increase the number of organic farmers in Austria in order not only to meet social expectations but also to implement a modern market position for small-scale agriculture in a mountain country with multifunctional tasks. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to say the following: It's stupid. Your democratic right to express your opinion here, but you will be allowed to demand integrity. If you want structural reforms at a higher pace, then you will face the consequences associated with them. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] As a government which has received a mandate from more than two thirds of the country's citizens in the last National Council elections in 1995, we are on the road step by step. [[Interlocutory calls and calls to the liberals and the ÖVP.]] That is why we have basically received the corresponding democratic mandate. Our guideline is not to fear, not to destabilize, but to continue to give this country and its citizens stability, continuity, work, social peace and prosperity. [[Prolonged calls to the liberals.]] My Appreciations Ladies and gentlemen! This is a development that Austria has been doing well for decades, which must ultimately be our goal in the interests of our future design and will basically lead our work. It is worth engaging in it and being politically active in it.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e5437	Mr Rosenstingl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e5458	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Schwarzböck! There are good structural reforms, and there are poor structural reforms. [[Abg. Schwarzböck: Yes!]] Unfortunately, they have introduced poor structural reforms since 1986, and that is why we are in this situation today. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We are facing high unemployment in Austria, we have weak businesses, especially in the small and medium-sized economy, and you have to do this with your tax and budget policy in Austria! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: Mr. Rosenstingl! They write down the reforms and say that they are bad!]] Ladies and gentlemen! If one has listened to this debate, in particular the speakers of the Coalition Government, one has really got the impression that, although in this House, it is theoretically discussed about economic policy, that you have no idea of what it is like in Austrian companies, what concerns Austrian workers have. The Austrian workers are concerned about their work, and this concern is justified because you are in no doubt running a burden policy, because you are now running a Euro policy without reservation, while the experts in Europe say that hundreds of thousands of jobs are at risk by this unreservedly euro policy. [[Complaints with the liberals]] Tens of thousands of jobs are threatened by your policies, by your euro policy in Austria, and against this we are defending ourselves. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It's amazing: President Maderthaner made himself here and in his speech meant that it was all right in Austria that we had no problems in the field of the small and medium-sized economy, we had a budget invigorating the economy. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: You didn't listen to that!]] Mr President, I should like to thank I have the impression that Mr Maderthaner is sitting in his president's office on the main street in Wiedner, delighted with his life as President, but does not know what concerns his forced members have. His forced members are fighting in Austria for their existence because of their policies, Mr. Collegue! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This budget is worsening the facts of Austria's economic location. There are no impulses for the small and medium-sized economy, there are additional burdens for entrepreneurs. [[ongoing calls to the ÖVP]] Mrs. Colleague! How can you answer that there are 50 percent increases in fees? Skill They take all serious action before entrepreneurs and say: That's all right, we'll charge you 50 percent!Unknown term type: "%s".? I know how you're responsible: They are completely indifferent to the entrepreneurs. You only want one thing: to stay in this coalition government on the ministerial chairs, continue to care for your ministers – in contrast to us liberals, because we maintain Austrian entrepreneurs and Austrian workers, and that is why we also have success in the elections. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is indeed a dangerous threat, Mr President, if the Minister of Finance announces in his budget speech that he will close the tax gaps. We know what that means: That's the load package number three. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: That's unbelievable!]] Mrs. Colleague! For years, we have had the tendency that in Austria the profits of companies will no longer be taxed, but an income that is not at all available. You are a businessman, you know very well that there are many out-of-balance accounts that you have decided to support. They tax an income of entrepreneurs who do not have entrepreneurs at all. We therefore have no maximum progression of 50 percent in Austria, but we have a progression that is much higher. They are due to the fact that the equity ceiling of these companies in Austria is getting smaller. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, take note that the small and medium-sized economy in Austria is the largest taxpayer and that the small and medium-sized economy in Austria is the largest employer. Therefore, it can only be the objective of a responsible budgetary policy to strengthen this small and medium-sized economy and thus combat unemployment in Austria. Mr State Secretary! Where are the impulses for the small and medium-sized economy in this budget? – There is no one. Where are the impulses for combating unemployment? – There is no one. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Zero Point Joseph!]] Please note from the government: The politicians cannot create jobs, not we here in this House or the Federal Chancellor, when he says: I will make sure that the apprentices are accommodated! – Mr. Bundeskanzler personally will not hire any apprentice – the economic operators will recruit the apprentices, and therefore the economic operators in Austria also need the strength to employ employees. However, they do not provide any impetus in this respect in your budget. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Every year, we learn from the report by the Minister for Economic Affairs on the small and medium-sized economy that their profits are reduced, that debt is getting worse and worse, that the existence of these enterprises is at risk. But you do not take any precautions in your budget, no measures by finally making a capital increase for the small and medium-sized economy, but you are burdening it. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The S & D Democrats and the ÖVP have agreed to a request in the EU Parliament, in which they voted in favour of disseminating the profits that have not been collected. And it is a truly adventurous financial policy statement when Mr. Eder – my colleague Schreiner has already mentioned this – says: Taxation of non-compulsory profits is at the expense of workers. This is really white financial nonsense! [[Abg. Haigermoser: Who said that?]] Mr Eder of the Social Democrats. [[Abg. Haigermoser: This is adventurous! Eder, where is he?]] Let us finally note from the Socialists that the small and medium-sized economy must provide jobs for entrepreneurs! We want many workers and many employees in Austria, and we therefore need many healthy businesses in Austria, but they cannot be created with your budget policy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They are model students of the EU in every sense – in every sense of insanity! They have betrayed the transit agreement during the EU negotiations and are now continuing on this really crazy wave. If the EU does something wrong, for example, if it says that the profits that have not been collected belong to the EU. Get really operational here in Austria, and do something for the Austrian economy! We also know that the problem of undeclared work in Austria is becoming an ever-increasing one. We have long called for the introduction of the Luxembourg model. To this end, there are lip recognitions from all political groups, especially from the Chamber of Commerce. If Mr. Maderthaner gives his Sunday speeches, he knows... [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: That's what you wrote off! You're not bad in the writing!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You can write something good!]] Mrs. Colleague! We have already talked about the Luxembourg model when you have only been thinking about the economic chamber elections and how you will maintain compulsory membership in the Chamber of Commerce! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] As far as you are concerned, we are concerned about entrepreneurs and not about forced members in an economic chamber. Let us introduce this Luxembourg model – the lip confessions are present – and it would make sense. I really regret that only the politicians at the national level have come to believe that the liberals are right. On the initiative of the liberals, a resolution was drawn up in the Lower Austrian Land Day, in which all the parties voted in favour of the introduction of the Luxembourg model. In Parliament, where we have the power to act, nothing happens – even the Lower Austrian MEPs, Maderthaner and stupid, do nothing in this direction. In conclusion, I can only say the following: Mr Edlinger, Minister of Finance, continues a budgetary policy which unfortunately led to poor economic data for its predecessors, Lacina and Climate. Under a German climate and a finance minister Edlinger with the Beiwagerl ÖVP, which supports every financial and economic nonsense, unfortunately, it looks very bad for the Austrian economy.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e5673	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Peter. Your club will be available for a total of 19 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e5716	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Minister wants to prepare the country for new challenges – I think that is a good and high goal. He wants to make this economical and realistic, he told us here in the House a few hours ago. The question is only whether the right way is through a revenue budget, the highest tax and tax rate we have ever had in Austria. Is that the right way? He has told us, just like Mr Schwarzböck, that serious policy is not spectacular, it requires gradual reforms. On this point too, the question is: Does the Federal Government know where these gradual reforms should lead? Isn't it a year-to-year search to get over the rounds? – ensuring social institutions and meeting the demands of the population of Schwarzböck for stability, continuity, social justice and prosperity will probably not be possible with a simple continuation of budgetary developments without the necessary reforms. On the other hand, Mr State Secretary, you are an experienced manager, you are all the more common – the developments in the information society, the developments in technology, the transport system, a world-wide economy that will reform our working world. I find in your budget, as the policy cast down in figures, not a single approach to an answer to the world's changing working society, also in Austria. The services are the growth field, the services will be the field of employment. However, it is not a single approach contained in your budget, Mr State Secretary, who reduces labour costs and thus allows services in Austria to the extent that we could have them. They're making a budget that goes beyond the demography. You take note of the explosion of the population, you take note of the ageing of the population in Austria, but what you will offer us – not even today – in the form of a pension reform – I can only anticipate what you will offer us, because it is not yet there – can not be the answer to the demographic development we can foresee for the next 10, 20, 30 years. It is therefore not surprising that the social system in Austria is on its feet in the long term. Schwarzböck is talking about gradual reforms, and Mr Edlinger is also talking about gradual reforms. But you will have to take great steps, and you will have to define above all once if you are already taking big steps where the big steps lead. The impression of the interested observer from the opposition is actually that of fortification: We are once again making a budget, very skilled in crafts, we have some forms of creative accounting there and there, we have short-term revenue, we are increasing revenue overall, we can do something there and there in the budget. But the answer to what is happening in our society through the change of the working world, by demographic development – ageing – by the question of the explosion of health costs is not included in the budget. This has not been mentioned in Mr Finanzminister's budget speech. He has clearly told us that he wants to prepare the country for the new major challenges, and he has told us that we must believe that we can do it. – Is it not a little bit if he just says – literal quote –: We have to believe that we can do it? I can only say: Just courage, just courage! We Liberals have done what has been called for in this debate for many hours by the speakers of the government groups, including the Minister of Finance – perhaps the Secretary of State is still speaking. You said: You opposition, finally make a proposal! Don't always be against it, but make a suggestion how you want to do it! So: We Liberals have developed a proposal, the proposal of a new tax model. And without the Lord Khol knowing him, without the Lord Schwarzböck really knowing him, without the Lord's head really knowing him, they immediately pack out the cubit and cut us to the head and say, Such a fool! So how are you supposed to do it as an opposition now? If we make proposals, don't worry about the government factions and say why you are against it, and if we don't make any proposals, you say we only criticize it. So what do you want? You have to decide. Obviously, it is suicide to make a proposal as an opposition, because then the left conservatives and the legal conservatives, the guards in this country, all of them – good and beautiful and noble – know how it must be in this country, pack the great pitfalls of the well-acquired rights and "pull" one over the skull. So what do you want? Do you want proposals, or do you want us to call you just like the liberals? I will nevertheless try to put the proposal of a new tax model here in the House to the discussion. I think we must assume that we come to the self-esteem of the powerful citizen. The principle of regulation, with its imperceptibility to tax law, with its inconsistency of social law, with its incomprehensibleness of labour law regulations, is bureaucratic and creates legal uncertainty. We will have to take the step of relinquishing the belief in the regulation of society and responsibilities to individual people. But the condition is that we give him the social security which is the basis for his being free. The self-esteem of the powerful citizen means that at the end of the year, every citizen's income – many citizens, more than we believe – has more than one income, more than one kind of income; not all, but more and more – is himself, so that the real income of the citizens can be determined. We will have to find a horizontal tax justice between different incomes. It is not to be seen why a capital income is taxed differently depending on whether it comes from a savings account or from dividends. Why tax money that someone gives to a company with up to 50 percent – 34 plus 25 makes the 50 with the shadow effect – and if someone puts it risklessly in government papers, only tax it at 25 percent!Unknown term type: "%s".? That is a question of fiscal justice. Where do you want money to flow? It will always flow where you tax it least. Your current conditions, Mr State Secretary, mean: Don't put money in companies, because in a person company you pay 50 percent limit tax rate, in a capital company with the distribution also to the 50 percent; put it in state papers, because there you pay only 25 percent! – These are the clear framework conditions of your policy, that is in your budget! [[Abg. Young: He knows that, but he must forget as a member of the government!]] – But I can still try to arouse the manager’s conscience in Mr Ruttenstorfer, perhaps I will succeed, let me continue the attempt! We Liberals have broken our heads over it, instead of introducing a negative tax on social bureaucracy. Today, thanks to every human being, God has the right to social assistance, to compensation allowances, that is, in Austria there is already the right to a minimum income, different from federal to federal, with different social assistance rates and so on. We think it would be easier, unbureaucratic and human dignity to say: There is a negative tax on each person's basic income, which is somewhere between 6,000 and 8,000 s. This is a very, very complicated process, and I invite you, dear government fractions, not to say exactly how it is not going, but to read the project at least once and think about it, dear heads, dear khols, dear black goats, before you come to terms with it. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I am convinced that we will have to stagger the transfers in terms of income. Federal Chancellor Vranitzky said that this was what German Chancellor Klima said, and that was what Mr. Edlinger said – only: It's not in your budget! [[Abg. Schaffenrath: Mr. Novotny also said it!]] Now, Novotny says it! However, it is not in your budget, but the budget is the government's policy cast into figures. So why write You're not going to the budget? . I do not think that you will continue with the reform steps at the speed you are presenting them today. I believe that we must re-examine the whole issue of wage and income taxation. We will have to do away with special arrangements and special payments to a large extent in order to achieve a uniform and substantially lower rate of taxation. We will also have to learn, knowing that, because of demographic development, the pension system we have today will not work further, that we have to do something beyond basic security – that is the guarantee for every person – towards private security. But then we also have to make pension contributions either removable on both sides or not removable on both sides, otherwise the second and third pillars in the form of an occupational pension or private provision will not really work. Moreover, I mean – this is a very essential point; and immediately some will fall over me again and say: I can't do that!; think about it first! . that we must convert the wage taxes, namely the proportions of employers, into a kind of tax covering the total amount of wages, as a condition for us to be able to do what this Federal Government has been talking about for a few years: to gradually convert wage-dependent employers' taxes into resource taxes in order to increase gross wages on the one hand and to reduce labour costs on the other. By increasing gross wages – on the basis of a total wage and income tax reform – people can also afford higher energy taxes in higher net wages, and the burden of companies goes away from work to resources. That's what we all want! If the future of employment is in the service sector, labour costs play a central role. In industry, they play this much less, because higher productivity can still lead to market-based unit labour costs, which the Austrian industry – and to this I congratulate her – has also succeeded in the last two, three years. The Austrian industry has achieved a positive result of structural change and is now successful in exporting due to unit labour costs. But where employment could be created, namely in the service sector, in strengthening private consumption, in raising the quality of life in our country, you do not send a signal. Ladies and gentlemen! Many know that they are against it without knowing why. As an oppositionist, I have now tried to make a proposal – you will come down immediately and explain to me why it is not possible. Head smiles already.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e5807	Mrs Haidlmayr has now been reported to speak. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e5828	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I listened very carefully to the budget speech of Minister of Finance Edlinger 14 days ago and initially thought I had missed something. When I read the speech, however, I have come to believe that he has actually succeeded in not even mentioning people with disabilities in his budget speech in any form. I think that was the first time. I then looked at the draft and realized that it had its reason why we disabled people were no longer mentioned in the budget speech: The basis for people with disabilities, which is necessary for them to survive half-way in the coming years, will continue to be restricted. Ladies and gentlemen! If this is the direction of our social state, that people who already have to live at the poverty line and who do not know how to get out of their incomes on a daily basis continue to take away something, then I must say: I really think this is the summit of unkindness! When the care allowance was introduced in 1993, in the field of the ASVG, the service provider and the employee contribution were simultaneously increased by 0.5 percent in order to cover the additional costs of the care allowance. With these increases of 0.5 percent, from 1993 to today, the additional burden for increased care money was more than financed. The remaining amounts have disappeared somewhere in the budget. They did not adapt the care allowance in 1996 and 1997, which is de facto a loss for every disabled person, and no adjustment is envisaged for 1998 and 1999. Ladies and gentlemen! I would now like to explain to you what this means in terms of numbers: In 1996, the cost of care money was estimated at 16 billion schillings. In 1993, almost all of you have said that the extra burden for the care money will burden the budget with 20 billion schilling. However, there were only 16 billion schillings, and of these 16 billion schillings, due to the increase in social security contributions, a lot has remained in the pot. In 1998, there will be 16.6 billion schillings going into care, although you, ladies and gentlemen, know that the number of people in need of care has increased in the first stages, in Stages 1 and 2. But that's where you made a cut last year and introduced an additional 2 000 s care allowance. This has also enabled you to bring even more people to stationary facilities. Is it not clear to you today that stationary facilities are the most expensive system we have at all? But this is financed to the shoreless, one does not talk about it, but one does it, although the disabled people do not want it for themselves. This was only the area of care money, in which we disabled people have not been found in the budget speech, but also in the labour market policy field, has not been mentioned with any single word how the unemployment situation of disabled people in Austria should be solved. Have you forgotten that unemployment in the disabled has already exceeded the 40 percent limit? But you see no need for action, rather try to keep people away from the regular work process with the expansion of stationary facilities and to push them off in special facilities! This system, as has already been said, is the most expensive system that can be imagined. However, you have thought that you could receive funding for the disabled from the EU. You have, of course, used them accordingly, and now you have the unfrozenness and want the so-called protected workshops, which are purely special facilities, to be renamed into innovative establishments in the new law on the disabled. Ladies and gentlemen! It is truly indescribable what you afford! An innovative operation and a protected workshop are different like a Puch 500 from a Mercedes 200. [[Abg. May. Guggenberger: "Integrative" means that!]] But that's all you've got to do, basically, you're gonna get us out of society and get us back in the direction of special institutions. Ladies and gentlemen! The third area I would like to make is health. It has not been so long since we decided on the LKF, which was then referred to as the milestone as a new, profound health reform. However, if you look at the costs for the next few years, you will notice that the costs will continue to rise despite LKF. Mr State Secretary! I ask you: What was the LKF necessary for? What was the need for you to have introduced self retention in every direction only if the costs continue to rise? – I can tell you why the costs continue to rise: because with your structural reform you are all together at the beginning, because there is no structural reform and the budget is not clear that the structural reform will continue in the next few years. The budget shows that you continue to focus on stationary facilities such as hospitals et cetera, where the highest costs arise, and once again do not attach any importance to the established area and outpatient care. Therefore, health costs will rise, and the consequence will be that you will remove benefits from the service catalogue for those who are ill, who need medical services that will increase self retention. With this you again burden every single one who needs this help. They simply broke down the structural reforms after a third of the road, and this at the expense of all those in Austria who need the health system completely. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Mother.]] Mr State Secretary! For years I have worked in a small social enterprise and budgeted for this every year, under the most difficult conditions, and you can believe that if I had ever submitted such a budget to the country or to the competent city, it would not have given us any more in the second year, because this paper would have been cut by our ears for so long that the bank would have "turned off" the credit for us. But it seems that everything is possible from the side of the Ministry, from the side of the Minister of Finance, and that has no consequences. With every number you find in the budget, you already have to be very inventive to discover the basis for this number and the change. I believe that all those who have been involved in this budget are likely to have major problems themselves, to say how much number is calculated. If that is the key to the new budget, because you are writing so much chaos in this paper, then, Mr State Secretary, I cannot imagine how you can only remember to meet the convergence criteria in the future or to add some figures to the budget in order to reach them. This paper has only a minimum content of truth, it is impenetrable and has absolutely no right to be further discussed in this form. I believe that this approach requires immediate change. The reforms that have been announced for years – one of them the continuation of the health reform – are now to be done. That is what I wish for from this budget.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e5877	The next speech is by Mrs Reitsamer. Time limit: 10 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e5898	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! As in recent years, the budget has, of course, been very responsible for saving. However, it is not a matter of priority, as has been said, to meet the convergence criteria, it is also a question of not having to put the profits into interest payments, but above all of having room for action for the future. In the social field, it must be our objective to achieve a reasonable and balanced assurance of all social achievements for the future. The debate on the budget, however, is almost exclusively marked by the pension reform, and this discussion has led to a very serious uncertainty. Our responsibility now lies in regaining the confidence of young people in the generation contract and in strengthening this confidence. What are you talking about, ladies and gentlemen? – To ensure the future of our excellent pension system. Even in therup study, it was said that this system is really an excellent, yes excellent one, but there must be adaptation steps due to changed framework conditions. However, there are also two areas to be differentiated – what effectiveness when? – on the one hand, the revenue-based structural measures to be properly implemented now, and on the other, sustainable measures in the 2000 pension concept, effective from the year 2000. Before responding to the six budgetary measures, I would like to mention a few more general figures. The total expenditure of the Federal Government on pensions will amount to 56.1 billion schilling, the total expenditure on pension insurance as a percentage of gross domestic product 10.56 percent without compensation allowances. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Novotny and Mr Federal Minister have already said this: Pension adjustment: 1.33 percent plus. It is very gratifying, in the interests of the minimum pensioners, that 430 million schilling is used for one-off payments for compensation recipients. The total cost of these increases is 3.9 billion schilling, which is a total of 1.5 percent increase. Before I come to the six budget-effective measures, I would like to focus on the fact that we are always accused of this being a money-raising action. The need for measures in the pension sector is very easy to identify with a few figures. In the ASVG, we have around 1.6 million pensioners, who face 2.6 million people. In the GSVG 155,000 pensioners face 229,000 assets, in the BSVG – now you listen carefully! – 193,000 pensioners 195,000 people active. It will only be possible to fulfil the generation agreement by taking action, taking steps to make adjustments here, sensible, important, reasonable adjustments. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Overall, 1 000 compulsory insured persons are expected to receive 638 pensioners in 1998. Ladies and gentlemen! This is an increase of seven pensioners to a thousand insured persons. Now to the various measures. The inclusion of all employees in social security: Ladies and gentlemen! That must be our wish. We must come to a changed concept of service, and we must try to get to the brink. Another point: the minor employees. A number of previous speakers have already been said about this. – Ladies and gentlemen! It is so important that even minor workers have a social security. If Mr Kier says – he meant this in terms of unemployment insurance – he cannot understand that the revenue is less budgeted, although the small employees are included, then he should be told that this is not about unemployment insurance, but that the involvement of the minor employees in the scheme is limited to health and pension insurance. For the small number of employees, it is true that most of those concerned want to do so for the time being, because they do not know what it has to do with the consequences for them. We are asked, ladies and gentlemen, to do some information. It cannot be said, however, that the one who pays their taxes from the first shilling of their income, while others disappear from the system with three or four minor jobs and later complain that there is no pension. So these steps are more than welcome. And if the objection comes that we would then also have to deal with more entitled persons in the future, it must be said: Yes, ladies and gentlemen! But we had them in the past, because in order to absorb poverty, other pots, such as social assistance et cetera, had to be tapped. And that's what we want to save people, because it's not very dignified for old age. That's what I want to say. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On the level of self-financing of self-employed and farmers, it is said that sustainable measures are also to be expected for future budgets. For the first time, there are 250 million schillings per year. This is a measure towards greater justice. I would like to make a comparison with the federal subsidies. In the ASVG: 31 billion schilling, in the GSVG: 13 billion schilling, in the BSVG: 12 billion schilling. One can already say that this is not so serious, but one must also see the number of insured persons – 1.6 million insured and 31 billion schilling in the ASVG, 155 000 in the GSVG at 13 billion, 193,000 in the BSVG and 12 billion – then one will see the imbalance and realize that one has to act. I have been working as a local official for a long time, and I can still remember times when, for example, the farmers have praised their booths because they have saved them from having to enter this system – hardly were they inside, the demand catalogue has become increasingly thicker and more extensive. There should be an adequate pension for every person, but it must also be a corresponding contribution, I would say. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] To increase the maximum contribution base. For the time being, 45,000 s were thought of. We ourselves have always strongly opposed this, and there has also been a change. That's how it's going to be: In 1998 it would have been provided for under Law 41 400 S. This is now rounded to 42 000 s, and it will be intercepted again at the next step. That is why there is no extraordinary increase. I can only say to the actual retirement age and its pre-accession to the legal person: We ensure that more people can remain in working life, that older people can remain in work, because budget questions, ladies and gentlemen, are always employment issues. We have had good experience with work foundations, our dual training system is internationally recognised – the EU has also expressed its highest recognition for this – and now that measures such as educational care, solidarity premium model and sliding pensions are being implemented is more than right. To the sliding pensions. There will be social security and labour law measures. This is an attractive alternative for employees and employers, which can also be further developed in the future. I would like to say something to Mr Ollinger and Mr Kier. You said that the cornerstones are still being negotiated while we are debating here. I am surprised that the two measures, namely, the budgetary measures and, on the other hand, the 2000 pension concept, cannot be distinguished. The 2000 pension concept is still under negotiation. Again to Mr Kier, who referred to the conduct of unemployment insurance and the fact that income is less estimated. This is undisputed, but one has assumed here from the 1996 federal accounts and from the adoption of a stable labour market according to the Wifo forecast. There will be no cuts, ladies and gentlemen, and also in 1997 a balanced budget has been adopted in labour market policy. You can't do that right now. Mrs. Haidlmayr has dealt with the care allowance. It is true that there is no valorization, but I would also like to remind you that when we introduced the care allowance, we would have liked to have a mixed form of benefits, because we feared abuses in the area of older people who could no longer care for themselves. If you had not prevented this, you could deal with the topic of care money differently today. And one thing is also said: The term in the EU is "integrated" instead of "innovative" for the protected workshops. That's where my colleague Haidlmayr got a little messed up. In the social budget, therefore, there should not be a reconstruction, but a significant adjustment, a redistribution down, not to the top. Mr Kier is right when he thinks that the mechanisms are working better in the distribution of more resources, but they will also work in redistribution. You can be sure of that! Mr Kier expressed himself finely. Another division was that the social partners were in agony. – You don’t need to ask where she came from. One cannot be in agony and at the same time negotiate cornerstones, ladies and gentlemen! Social partnership is a proven Austrian institution. It is fought and fooled to eliminate hardship. But I can tell you one thing: Your wish for a crash scenario will not be fulfilled! You can be sure of that now. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And if, in his speech, Mr. Principal, Mr. Prinzhorn said that the liberals had to blow away the "think" again – to judge the division "bubble away" – I leave you – I say to you: There will be no "dirty" due to our budgetary policy, and secondly, the Austrians will be wise enough not to hand over the "F" responsibility, because one can go too far with the attempt to de-olidarize people. And, ladies and gentlemen, pride is known to be the case.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e6040	Mr Schwarzenberger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e6062	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The budget is very often referred to as the policy of figures, and therefore the budget is of particular importance for all levels of population. Mrs Reitsamer, you have already shown very unilaterally in your comparison, which contributes to their pension by which population group. They must also bear in mind that, for example, as long as they work in their own company, they do not belong to them, they pay for them according to ASVG and are therefore not included. We have a similar situation with the farmers. 70 percent of farmers pay according to ASVG or civil service insurance. They are also not taken into account in the comparison. When we talk about the generation contract: It is true that almost all farmers still receive the pension from rural pension insurance, but 70 percent of young farmers, i.e. the farmer, pay in other pension insurance. It is therefore necessary to take this sum into account. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Remarkable: Subsidiarity, Mr Colleague!]] In addition, agricultural pension insurance is based on two pillars: occupational pension insurance, the so-called exit that farmers have to make for their old parents, and pension insurance. If we count on this, the farmers would have to make a pension contribution of between 25 and 27 percent of their income, and not, as with the self-employed, at 22.8 percent. If you already make a comparison, you should tell the whole truth. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The income in agriculture in 1996 was much worse than last year due to poor prices in the cattle sector due to the BSE crisis, but also to poor wood prices, due to poor prices in the vegetable and fruit sectors. Paragraph 7 of the Commission, a Commission consisting of members of the parties represented in Parliament and the social partners, has therefore also adopted a recommendation. This recommendation is also printed in the Green Report in 1996; it reads: no further burden on farmers' families, especially through social security contributions, the introduction of a base amount in mining promotion – which is negotiated – so that the small farms in the extreme Alpine valleys can still find appropriate conditions in order to obtain their farms. Something very important, the adjustment of the standard rate of VAT from 10 to 12 percent, is contained in both the Recommendation 1995 and the Recommendation 1996 for the following reasons: Since accession to the EU, agriculture has increasingly focused on investment, i.e. it has paid much more on pre-tax, paid for VAT than it has taken for its products. In 1993, for example, investments by agriculture amounted to 20.7 billion schilling, 21.3 billion in 1994, 21.5 billion in 1995, and 26.8 billion in 1996 in Schilling by 20 percent more than a year earlier. More than 4 billion schillings have been paid by the farmers in VAT for the investment goods. Agricultural prices fell considerably in 1995, while in 1996 agricultural prices fell considerably. The Economic Research Institute has the amount on... [[Abg. Wenitsch: You have two years here in Parliament...!]] You know that we are in a coalition and cannot enforce it alone, but we must try to find a compromise and a consensus. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The economic research institute has calculated that some 1.7 billion schillings will be paid more in VAT by the farmers. For these reasons, we also advise all those companies that make larger investments to make an expenditure-income account, a so-called option, in order to get back to the VAT paid by them. One word to the Liberal Forum. Mr Haselsteiner mentioned again the 8 000 S basic income for all Austrians. You just need to explain to me how this should be paid. We still have 250 000 farms in Austria. At the 1995 farm census, 960,000 people were resident in Austria's farms. If all these persons are to receive a basic income of 8 000 s, you can pay the following bill: The current agricultural income is 35 billion schilling. The pensioners in agriculture have a total income of 19 billion schilling. In addition, family policy benefits of 2 billion schilling. That is to say, the 8,000 S monthly salary is missing a figure of 40 billion schilling. The Liberal Forum should show us where the money is to be taken to implement this model of basic income for all Austrians! Even if editor-in-chief Dr Barazon in the 'Salzburger Nachrichten' two weeks ago said that in Austria 50 000 farmers would be enough, we will definitely try by the People's Party to shape the framework conditions in such a way that, as far as possible, all of the currently 250 000 farmers can remain farmers in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e6131	The next speech is by Mr Böhacker. 8 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e6152	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mr Schwarzböck, I am easily irritated that you criticized Mr Schreiner for his commitment to continuity and predictability in tax law. [[Abg. Schwarzböck: I have criticized the double-fedness, not the principle!]] They meant that if continuity and predictability prevail, structural reforms can only be implemented slowly. On the contrary, Mr Cot: A continuous and predictable tax policy is a prerequisite for rapid structural reforms in businesses. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But continuity and predictability are no longer given. I can only remind you of the retroactive changes in tax laws, which are still in the constitutional order. And we are facing another attack on continuity, predictability and legal certainty. The Federal Government has sent a novel to the Federal Tax Code for an assessment of the fact that, in the future, tax rulings may be withdrawn for seven years without giving any qualified reasons. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Is that true? In a rule of law?- Oh, my God!]] You have to imagine that! For seven years, the financial management should be authorised to simply withdraw notices without giving qualified reasons! Mr State Secretary! We liberals will oppose this BAO novelle of any possible democratic resistance, for one thing is clear: [[Complaints with the liberals]] Legal certainty must go before justice. This is a clear claim to these BAO novelles. Mr Novotny has again used the standard speech, page one, and has quoted the labour market policy, the low unemployment rate in Austria. The number was undoubtedly correct. Only: If we want to discuss honestly and objectively, we have to ask ourselves how this unemployment rate has happened, and I am not tired to say here again and again why it is. Mr. Dr. Heindl! We Austrians are world champions with the early pensioners. Tens of thousands are in Karenz, in foundations, in re-trainings. We still have an disproportionately high proportion of public servants. If you sum up all these factors, you will find in Austria structural unemployment, which is two-digit. And since we are talking about a successful social-democratic labour market policy, an increase in the 200 000 people who are often unemployed for years, especially those who today have no chance of being integrated into the labour market at 48, 50, 52 years. [[Complaints with the liberals]] This painting is also a blow to the face of those around a million Austrians who live hard at or below the poverty line. I would recommend Professor Novotny to leave the university and attend a poverty conference in Austria. Then, too, he who works in the protected area would open his eyes. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We called the 1997 budget a "swivel budget". I would also like to explain why. How could the budget target be achieved? – By means of advances in future budgets, suspension of losses, support of allowances, special surcharges in income tax and corporate tax, 13. VAT prepayment, IFB prepayment, discount on due dates on turnover tax, minimum-cost and so on, and so on, with the result that EUROSTAT Austria has a tax rate of 45.7 percent for 1996. – There are only four countries in the EU that have a higher tax and tax rate than Austria. It is always pointed out that the Germans look at us Austrians, what good tax and tax systems we have. Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian tax rate is 45.7 percent, the Federal Republic of Germany being 42 percent. By 3.7 percent, the state rate in Austria is higher than in the Federal Republic of Germany, while in the Federal Republic of Germany the costs of reunification are also to be borne. This as a successful Austrian, social-democratic – with ÖVP's remaining share – budget and financial policy is more than bold, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There are still many individual measures to be taken. As a particularly negative example, let me just mention a tax provision. When calculating the advance payments for income and corporation tax, it is not possible to charge losses for 1998. What does that mean in practice? Tax prepayments are increased by 3 per cent once, with a special charge of 5 per cent, and although losses are finally deductible in 1998, this is not taken into account when calculating the advance payment. In other words, the Minister of Finance is asking for amounts that he does not even have to pay for from the Austrian economy. The Minister of Finance makes himself richer with this budget than he is, and thus contradicts the principles of a decent merchant.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e6236	Mr Heindl, Member of the Commission. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e6257	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Like last week, it was again: If you listen to the speakers of the opposition parties, you have the impression that our economy is going badly. I understand this, Mr Gaugg, in principle, when the opposition is criticizing. An opposition is that it is critical of the government. What I do not understand, however, is that one does not really do it in the form of a discussion. I have been following with great interest how you have listened to the statements of the Minister of Finance on your criticism. I thought: Great! – I really don't mean that cynical now, I mean it honestly. – I thought that now there will be an argument about the various statements. Far from it! While Mr. Böhacker accuses colleagues of the "page one", you always refer only to this page. You don't go into things... [[Abg. Böhacker: The Minister of Finance has said that we have enough time in committee!]] Mr Böhacker, the time is running. It's okay. We did. Ladies and gentlemen! I am really far from doing painting, only to discuss the individual things in the overall context. I am quite ready to discuss with you with some of the things you criticize. But to criticise and not to respect the overall context is not only unfair to the discussion partners but, above all, unfair to the country. For, ladies and gentlemen, when we discuss Austria's economic location, when we point out our economic and social position, we must do so in a fair way. A discussion of how you lead them does not bring anything, but only harms our overall picture. This discussion, as you keep trying to lead them, is damaging to the economic situation and ultimately harms the country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Let me give you an example. They act as if some tough measures in the last two years have only been put out of juxtaposition and tolling. However, they do not say what the causes of these measures will be necessary. I have not heard a word today, ladies and gentlemen, with which stunning changes Europe and Austria have had to be done in recent years. They are not talking about the development of globalisation. They are not talking about the creation of new states in our immediate neighborhood. They are not talking about the border opening to the east. You're not talking about the COMECON anymore. You're not talking about a NAFTA. They act as if we were in a political situation like we were ten years ago, and what we're doing here, well, that's what happens because we're making a jux and toleration policy. – This is not fair, ladies and gentlemen, but not because of the government or because of us Social Democrats, at all. It is crucial that we do not deal with the problems! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, the fact that such changes – even if I give you the right thing – are truly stunning, of course lead to uncertainties in some sections of the population, and even cause fear. But if we have such debates, then, please, we should lead them in the sense that we do not create uncertainty, but rather create a state of consciousness in which the willingness to make necessary changes in the individual political positions becomes clearly visible. Ladies and gentlemen! The fact is that Austria as an economic location has much to defend. I think we agree on at least that. In the course of structural change, which is being discussed over the last 20 years, and ladies and gentlemen, you should also say that, Austria has had productivity developments that have not had a single country in Europe except Ireland. The last 20 years! So it could not have been as bad as it could have been, even the framework conditions could not have been, otherwise such results would not have been possible. These are proud achievements that have ultimately led to this – you are quite right with criticism of unemployment figures – that we have 3.1 million today and a few more employees, because of course there is more and more access to the labour market. Ten years ago we still had 2.8 million employees. This should also be said when discussing the employment situation. We have the lowest inflation rate, ladies and gentlemen, we have as low interest rates as this country has never had in the last 40 years. These are positive trends, which cannot be swept away, but which have ultimately led us to overcome the situation despite all critical developments. Ladies and gentlemen! They always like to quote the Wifo – last but not least: Austria reported a significant improvement in competitiveness in 1996. If unit labour costs increased significantly between 1992 and 1995 compared to our main trading partners – 5.6 percent – they fell by 3 percent in 1996 and this trend persisted in 1997 and 1998. Thus, the relative unit labour cost position vis-à-vis the trading partners should have improved by more than 10 percent between 1996 and 1998 and by more than 5 percent compared with Germany. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Böhacker.]] Mr President, I should like to thank These are facts that can't be debated away. [[Abg. Böhacker: I say yes!]] Then why don't you tell me if you know? Then I would have saved it if you had said it, I would have said: Great, you recognize what we represent. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Böhacker.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Now to export, which is also an interesting topic. Mr Prinzhorn, I think, said: Exports are broken in. – I have to say: The numbers speak a completely different language, I can make them available to you. We have a truly exorbitant increase in the export sector, the import has declined. The coverage ratio has improved. [[Abg. Gaugg: The trade deficit is nothing, isn't it?]] Please listen! In the first half of 1997, the trade deficit has improved by a fifth. [[Abg. Böhacker: The whole truth! What was 1996?]] Reading, reading – more needs You don't even have to do it! The whole truth is, I'm talking about 1997. 1996 was different, you're right. [[Abg. Böhacker: The whole truth! Yes, I do!]] Mr Böhacker, I am not one to deny anything. I always say the whole truth, yes, that's it! It is also interesting that you are criticising employment policy here. I quote a broadcast from Mr. Prinzhorn last week, 10. October, 4:00 p.m.: Export and technology offensives have come to a standstill. And now you listen well – 2. October, excuse me! –: [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: It's only tomorrow!]] The only programme of the Federal Government, which really grips, is the employment offensive. . I'm just quoting what Mr Prinzhorn sent out last week. You should stay with what you said, and that is what I am talking about, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] One more comment because I have made to speak as briefly as possible, but also as objectively as possible. Additional labour costs: I do not believe that the issue of additional labour costs must be dealt with in a solution. But the truth is also: Why do we have a relatively high share of additional labour costs? - Because we're 13th and 14th. In the course of the month. You know exactly if we took out the 13th and 14th, the position looked different. I invite you – my time is already running out – to look at the labour cost comparison, please look at the other positions, then you will notice that it is not so bad. It can't be that bad either. How else would it be possible for our exports to develop so well in the face of fierce competitive positions? That's the answer. The success is that of the policy that is being made in our country. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e6399	Next word: Mr Kiss. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e6420	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! According to the details, which Mr Heindl has put here on the subject of budget, on the numbering work, I would like to give some thought to the field of internal security. [[Abg. May. Main: You shouldn't talk about that today!]] - Yes, right now! It certainly fits the day after yesterday's very emotional discussion. Why not? I'll find out at the entrance: The internal security chapter budget is supported by the ÖVP in a sustainable way. The argument is very simple, Mr State Secretary: It will be implemented in two main areas which we, as the driving engine, also demand in the chapter on internal safety. There is more money for security – we are glad to identify with it – and there are also more planning sites. 500 more border regions, which we will need at the EU's external border, are documented in a sustainable way. From this point of view, there are some basic statements on the matter of internal security in that country in particular. First of all, the question must be asked: Where are we? . I do not think we have an interior minister who owns the appropriate fortification. A politician also needs measles, also needs luck – Karl Schlögl has it, and I congratulate him on it. He is a fair partner, he has handshake quality, and he finds all the support he needs to be able to be really successful in a difficult, sensitive matter. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I ask, however, that it should not be believed, that I forgot yesterday's day, the second question: How does the executive look? . I note that within our colleagueship at the Gendarmerie, where police have been in office since Schlögl took office, there has also been a motivating shift. No matter where I am, no matter where in which country, no matter where the office I am at, I hear from my colleagues again and again: We feel that the Minister is with us. We feel that the Minister represents our intentions, we note that the Minister is trying not only to carry us and our work, but also to create the framework conditions within which we can do best executive work. – It was not always the same as I said yesterday. – I am pleased, and with that we identify. Thirdly, The population also notices it, because reading criminal statistics in 1996 records the following: Although we have problems at unchanged levels – half a million crimes and crimes have been committed last year – the approach is correct. Quality of staff, motivation by the co-operation, means that there are appropriate information rates. The fact that statistics are not beautiful shows, above all, the fact that we hear the feedback from the individual departments: We really announce what we have in cases, we really pass on real numbers and not turkish, beautiful numbers. So if I have a short balance, we stand there quite well and properly. Austria – I like to say that – is a safe country. Anyone who looks around abroad, who comes to other parts of the world, will be able to confirm this permanently. Nevertheless, ladies and gentlemen, there is a lot to be done. What needs to be done from the point of view of the EIA, I would like to make a brief statement on four points. On the one hand: We need to do more about organised crime. It exudes, it is an entity that embraces our society like a crack, and we are convinced that the Austrian public is still underestimating the problem of organised crime. I even believe that we are still not aware of the dangers of organised crime as a whole, and that is why I call for more action to be taken against organised crime. Second point: We need to do more about the EU's external borders. We have the right approach, 500 border arms are added, but it is also important to take the technical adaptation measures and apply those organizational fine-tuning between the three guard bodies necessary to bring border army, customs guard and federal army into one hat. Third point: Security Academy. If a quality boost is to come into the executive, then the gendarmen and police have to identify with what they can, they have to be ready to do more, and they like to do it. The achievement of the Security Academy is a central issue. Last point: If we want to succeed in the area of serious crime which we discussed yesterday, we also need structural reform of the state police. These discussions are under way, and I am confident that we will also bring them together with a fair partner, as Minister Karl Schlögl is. In any case, the EIA will make every effort to continue to be a motor in the field of internal security, so that our efforts, the joint efforts of the Federal Government in the field of internal security, do not paralyze.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e6464	Next word: Mr Mag. Chief. 8 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e6485	Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Ladies and gentlemen! The current debate has obviously become so uninteresting that no one on the government bank wants to listen to what Parliamentarians say about the government proposal. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreider: If you sit here all the time, you can probably go out for a minute too!]] Mrs. Colleague! Everyone can, everyone can, but then everyone must also have the corresponding comments! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In his speech, Federal Minister Edlinger has repeatedly made a strong effort to address these budgets with the failed saving in this Republic, and he has called for understanding of the opposition to do so. With regard to health and social affairs, I would like to outline and relativize this so-called healthy and successful saving of the Federal Government, as it is now apparent from the proposals. On the one hand, we have the efforts of Mrs Minister to save six plan posts in the Federal Institute for Bacterial Investigations. So far, so good. But what does that mean? – That on the other hand, in order to cope with the labour attack, the number of persons who need salmonella and bacterial excretion leaves is reduced, namely those who are employed in large kitchens and the federal army. They are reduced by the reason that when something happens, the patient population is known and can therefore be treated. One reduces, although one knows from the health statistics of the Federal Government and the WHO that salmonellasis are on the move worldwide and that salmonella and bacterial diseases are becoming increasingly severe therapeutic problems. I do not think that saving six posts and buying out the fact that only one disease in a federal army barracks or in a large kitchen will create the twelve to thirteen times the cost of saving, can be called a healthy saving, Mr State Secretary! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I also believe that the euphoria in the health sector is premature about the measures now under way in the structural reform, because in five federal states the Landeshaltings have been formed in the Landeskrankenanstalts – you know that, Mr State Secretary – and has now taken up for the hospitals privately and privately the amounts covered from the country budgets. In Carinthia, the savings in the budget amounted to 1 billion schilling, and the outstanding debt at the Carinthian hospitals is currently 2.3 billion schilling. In the Styria it is similar, and so it goes across Austria. What are the consequences of these exclusions, this alleged structural reform, this so-called healthy and successful saving? – The Federal Government’s cost rate for received loans is currently 3.6, 3.8 percent, and the primary rates of private companies are currently between 5.4 and 5.6 percent – you’re right to give me that these figures are correct. As a result of the measures in this area alone, additional costs per year will be incurred by the recovery of approximately 250 million schillings in Germany. These costs are no longer in the budget, but you have the responsibility to assume. The burden of eradication will eventually run either through the budget or through the contributors and will continue to aggravate the already high expenditure and tax rate of Austria, which is known to be third in line with the latest statistics in the EU in Sweden and Denmark. I also do not think that the reduction of costs will bring about what has been postulated by the Federal Government here, namely a corresponding boost in internal demand in Austria. It is well known that in the social field alone, those measures under the heading of "savings" will cost the population in the next year, together with 5.4 billion schilling. Mr Trattner has said it in any case glaringly to you, but the other speakers of the opposition parties have also come up with similar figures. I believe that this will further dilute internal demand on the Austrian market. Of course you know, Mr State Secretary – you were a tolerant contracting and negotiating partner at the beginning of the budget negotiations – that the current early pensions in Austria will cost us between 0.9 and 1.2 percent of the growth of the gross domestic product for the next five years. You know, therefore, that the current forecasts for all other measures will only provide us with between 0.8 and 0.9% of GDP over the next two years. I am counting measures for employment policy, for rehabilitating the budget and what else is in this Republic. You know that at the slightest downturn in the economy, these 0.9 percent of GDP growth is gone and that at the least you stand with your back to the wall. Mr State Secretary, the reform of the pension system, which will continue to be negotiated today, can only be considered by us as an opposition as the documents currently under consideration of the Federal Government. On Sunday 14 days ago, Professor Marhold correctly presented it in a television discussion: What is to be done on the income side is undisputed, the social balance is still completely open, and the social dimension of this pension reform is not even apparent in the most important areas, especially for older people, for young people and for the socially weak. The current negotiations also make it difficult to see a serious trend. Mr Kiss referred to the area of security and participation in the areas of national defence and the Ministry of the Interior. The Federal Office of Anity in Carinthia has been planned for 15 years, it is said to have been built for ten years and on 31 March. December of this year – because the contracts expire – is distributed with 20 beds from the Landeskrankenhaus Klagenfurt. This means that there is no sanity facility available, but on the 1st. January 1998 the full year in Klagenfurt will be withdrawn. I wonder what the right of these young people to live by the Federal Government to live with such an infrastructure in the field of health care – in the budget, from 250 to 190 – has been speculated. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I do not think that it is reasonable when hundreds of soldiers come to the barracks and there will no longer be a single bed in contemporary design. On the other hand, however, tears are mounting in the eyes that the image of the federal army is increasingly declining. On the other measures in the area of the Federal Army – starting from procurement to the measures to safeguard the defence of the state – it is clear from a liberal point of view that this budget is not better than in recent years, but even worse. This budget will worsen the situation of our Federal Government. I hope that you, Mr Kiss, as someone who comes from a border region in the Burgenland, who is still speaking here, will not pay you home if an emergency situation has occurred. We upper-carriers know what we are talking about, because our soldiers have been on the border for years now, and we know what inadequate conditions this border deployment takes place under. I have high regard for all the officers, all the officers, all invading groundmen and all the teams, that they are still doing their service excellent. But this federal government has not created the basic conditions for this, and the new budget is not quite right.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e6543	The next item is the speech by Mr Marizzi. Please, honourable Member. Six minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e6564	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to return to economic policy. I believe that this budget, presented by Mr Edlinger, is forward-looking, balanced, structural and reformable. I think it is a good way – and I will prove it with figures – to secure the economic location of Austria, because expenditure dynamics are slowed down, budget deficits are declining, and, most importantly, the criteria for economic and monetary union are also met. These points, of course, are also an incentive for growth and employment, especially in the fight against unemployment. The social network in this budget must remain financially viable, and the state and its institutions – and this must be said quite openly – must become more efficient. Ladies and gentlemen! The opposition says again and again – that is its good right – the conditions are so bad, the economic conditions are so bad. But if I get the "Kronen Zeitung" from Saturday, 4th. Look at October, then I see an article with the title: Ongoing export records in the automotive supplier industry. – And that because the conditions are so bad? Do you know, ladies and gentlemen, that we are world champions in the production of engines, per capita of the population? We generate 60 billion schilling in the automotive industry! 60 percent of all BMW vehicles are equipped with Steyr engines. We produce three times as much in the automotive industry as in 1980 – do you believe that the framework conditions, as you always say, are not right? In Austria, a world group around AVL is to be established in diesel technology. There is one Magna settlement after another in the Styria. Do you think all of this is because the framework conditions are so bad? About Semperit has already been discussed, and last Saturday's paper writes: New record sales at the semi-trailer factory. The location is secured. - Or: The previously nationalized GBI – I can remember what has been said here – is now a stock exchange star. Flender has rehabilitated the operation with 1,000 people. [[Abg. Gaugg: 200,000 unemployed!]] – Mr Gaugg! You can only spell! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Daimler Benz is in the uproar, thick praise for Puch in Graz, a new pharmaceutical plant in Linz! – Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! You're not supposed to ignore that. – Book-stabling You keep quiet, Mr Gaugg, I will listen to you then, but hopefully not the special four letters. Austria's eco-economic economy is booming, reaching 2.2 billion schilling. Exports to the Gulf States – Mr Heindl has already cut it – rose by 5.5 percent. Exports to India rose by 55 percent from 1995 to 1996 and are rising steadily to Indonesia. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! If you don't believe all of this, read the newspapers, or look at the Wifo's economic forecast – that's the expression of politics. Mr Böhacker! You criticized that. The gross domestic product grows by 2.5 percent in 1998, the real private consumption by 1.5 percent, the equipment investment by 7 percent, the exports of goods by 8.5 percent – you know exactly, 1 percent exports of goods are about 10 000 jobs – and consumer prices – that is sensational because the budget brings the framework conditions – remain at 1.4 to 1.6 percent. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Why do we have so many unemployed, Mr. Marizzi?]] – I am still talking to the unemployed. Ladies and gentlemen! We know very well, and you also know that, ten years ago, 800 000 people in the Austrian industry produced half of what is producing 400 000 people today, based on rationalization, computerization, roboticization. I believe that in the long term we have to think about the need to distribute work in 10, 20 years in such a way that we go back by 1 percentage point each year. For example, this is also a social-democratic approach. Since I don't have much time anymore, I would like to say something to Mr. Dr. Khol, even if he's not here. – Ten years ago, I worked as a business settler in the state. Mr Khol has told us very keenly today about the national lights. I was only responsible for Mürzzuschlag and Ternitz, and we have established businesses there, we also have to throw people out, we have privatized. Who of you of the ÖVP then meant that the state-owned enterprises were mature for museums, they belonged to locked? [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: As a national light and not as a farm!]] – Today, they are listed as blue chips on the stock exchanges, and you did the bowl-dez course at the time. It's written to you in your master book! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You voted in applause at the time, ladies and gentlemen. In the meantime, Mr Schüssel has become national. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Ditz!]] [[Abg. Tichy-Schreider: Ditz!]] He is now at the post office, and I wish him much success that he also becomes a blue chip, but not at the expense of the "blue-collars", so the workers and employees there. Quickly change the page and always say, more private and less state, is not enough. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] – There you are, of course, sorry, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! That's why I think you should leave the church in the village. I would also like to say a few words to Mr Böhacker. [[Abg. Rosenstingl: Böhacker!]] - Böhacker, excuse me. They said – that was so nice – that the tax rate should be reduced. You know that 1 per cent of the tax rate means 25 billion? - Good. They said to lower them from 43 to 35 percent. You know that... – Yes, that said Haider in the beer tents, that was your whole truth. [[Abg. Böhacker: That's only half the truth!]] So lower, that means 200 billion schilling. Just didn't tell you where to get this. Subject to a reduction in expenditure? No, you said: Let's get into the bank reserves. – But you have also taken a wrong account, because there are only 115 billion in that. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You don't know each other!]] - He doesn't know. You don't understand anything about the economy, you understand something from the point of view, you know something about committee of inquiry, but let me say to colleagues... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Böhacker.]] Mr Böhacker! I recommend you take a look at the bank reserves, so you can read this. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Basically, it is a good right of opposition to criticize. The criticism is wrong, the budget is correct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e6724	Next word: Dr. Puttinger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e6745	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Many positions have already been illuminated, just one not, namely tourism, and I believe that we also need to deal with it. The fact is that in the budget speech of tourism, it has only been mentioned that foreign exchange revenue is no longer sufficient to cover the trade deficit. The fact is, foreign exchange revenue has increased. The fact is that in the last ten years 1.5 trillion Schilling has been brought to foreign exchange. The fact is that direct sales from tourism have reached 180 billion schilling. The fact is, however, that tourism is not only a currency-producing cash-cow, but at the end of the day it has created 500 000 Austrian incomes, jobs and jobs. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Minister! I therefore expect, at a time when tourism is certainly threatened by many internal and external positions, that we are still talking about it in the budget speech. I expect comments on the positions of the Federal proposal on tourism, especially as you know, as I do, that Austria is the most tourism-intensive country in the world. At the present Federal Budget forecast 1998, it is certainly positive to mention that the Austrian Hotel and Tourism Trustee Hand was established as a tourism bank. It is gratifying that the "Top" Tourism Directive has been adopted and has also been provided for financially. It is gratifying that there are foundations for participation and financing companies. It is gratifying that there is support for the purchase of properties to regulate and satisfy staff accommodation. It is gratifying that young entrepreneurs' budgets are also planned as well as shelter renovation and much more. But in principle there are also painful facts, and the pain has the task of drawing attention to unhealthy conditions. I would just like to mention two very briefly. The first is certainly that the funding remains the same. Malignant people could even say that they have fallen by 2,000 s, so precisely has been calculated here. But the fact is that Austria's advertising budget remains the same, subject to the condition that not the approach contained in the budget, which is 300 million, is valid, but that 50 million are being recast, as we have been promised. Federal Minister! In my opinion, however, freezing is not enough. We know that, especially in the overseas regions, whether in Asia, whether in South or North America, the cost of upgrading the dollar has increased considerably. We know that personnel costs have increased significantly – despite the reduction in staff. We know that the desired synergies have not yet occurred. But that can't mean how it was at a press conference on 6 June. In October, for example, advertising budgets have been reduced from 50 million to 40 million schilling for winter tourism, thus removing 10 million schilling from the advertising budget. Smeral, the Wifo's tourism expert, has said that even in winter transport, corresponding minus positions are to be expected. Federal Minister! As a second point, I should like to mention the billions of tourists. It has been a call for the tourism industry. As I have already mentioned, you know that 1.5 trillion have been introduced to foreign exchange. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Böhacker.]] They know that out of 1 S of the value added of tourism, a total of 3 s of the direct and indirect macroeconomic importance of tourism flows into the Austrian economy as value added. If we do not then deal with this issue, I believe that it is irrational. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If I have a minute left, I can still finish. I must say a word to the Liberals. The Liberals can, of course, talk about self-esteem, as we will agree with them. But allow me to add three small criticisms to your tax reform package. First: They want to secure a basic income of 8,000 s to each adult, regardless of his type of employment. With this idea, the decoupling of basic social security is given of employment. We cannot allow this to happen by the ÖVP. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Secondly, The Liberals, in particular Dr. Schmidt personally, speak of an increase in tax performance. In the situation we are in in Austria, with a tax rate of 41.8 percent, we cannot afford to increase the total tax performance. [[Abg. Böhacker: 45.7 percent!]] Thirdly, The Liberals want to introduce a uniform tax rate of 45 to 50 percent instead of the currently applied progressive season rate. You have that in your concept. This would continue to burden the performance of our system. Such a redistribution by the tax system is in principle rejected by us, by the ÖVP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e6811	I am now interrupting the negotiations on the first reading of the Government's proposal on the Federal Finance Act, because we have anticipated a meeting of a request for a 15 o'clock reply. Short debate on the response to the question 2707/AB
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e6835	We are now entering the brief debate on the question answered by the Federal Minister for Defence with the order number 2707/AB. The answer to the question is already distributed. There is therefore a lack of reading by the writer. We are going into the debate. Mr Scheibner is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure in § 57a, the first speaker has 10 minutes of speaking time. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e6868	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Federal Minister! I don't mind your nice conversation. Federal Minister! Today, once again, we are dealing with a problem that we parliamentarians – interestingly not only parliamentarians of the opposition parties – have with you, Mr. Federal Minister, especially with you and the country defence department. You seem to have a special relationship with Parliament, one, as I mean, "disturbed" relationship, because whenever we ask you for information, we do not either get it or incomplete or wrong, Federal Minister! – Minister of Defence! [[Federal Minister Dr. Fassleven: You ask so many questions...!]] If you are uncomfortable that we are asking so many questions, I would ask you to choose any other place or perhaps to give you better information, then we will save you the answer if it is annoying to you. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But it is now a right to have a right of origin in the Constitution that parliamentarians have the right to interact with the Minister, and you have the obligation to comply with this right, Mr Federal Minister, and to give the truthful and correct answers. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: No one disputed that!]] Minister! The question under discussion has referred to the militia, to the Austrian militia, and I mean and hope that the Austrian Federal Army is still a military army, even though you sometimes feel that you and some members of your resort have a problem with the militia and actually want to phase out this militia. We believe, however, that the militia is an important pillar of Austrian defence and that the Austrians, after completing the military service on a voluntary basis, make an important contribution to military defence. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Dr. Ofner.]] Federal Minister! However, in order to achieve this optimally, a comprehensive training and further training is necessary. It is not only every two years to complete a troop exercise, but it is necessary to continue and continue continuously. The willingness to do so, Mr Federal Minister, would be limited to the possibilities to see from this question. We have asked you whether it is true that a number of training units have already been removed from the Military Education Scoreboard in 1997 and, most importantly, whether it is true that in 1998 a further reduction of these training opportunities should be "ordered" in the course of voluntary arms exercises. You have answered this request in ten lines in the usual way. You can tell it, it won't be anymore. You write, it doesn't agree everything we say here, and in principle it's all right. No reductions have been planned. Federal Minister! However, there are also many people in your department who are no longer involved with this, who are no longer aware of the fact that they are forwarding proposals for requests to your office and are then completely amazed when they read the question answer that comes from your office, because it has nothing at all to do with the proposal of the bodies concerned. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is politically beautiful and colored. This seems to have happened in this case too, because, Mr Federal Minister, we have an internal decree on the voluntary exercise of arms. What's in it? It says: The budgetary consolidation measures of the Federal Government (Sparpaket) also reduce the financial resources available for voluntary arms exercises. This requires the management of voluntary arms exercises and a close link between training and the projects of the career plan and practical access to training. Ladies and gentlemen! A restriction and reduction of voluntary arms exercises – this is exactly contrary to what you have said here. But now the question is: How does this look in the time of Konnex, Mr. Federal Minister? Is it perhaps the result of this decision after the answer to this question? – This is not the case, Mr. Federal Minister! Your answer is dated 1. September 1997 – 1. September! This decree on the limitation of voluntary arms exercises is dated 7. ==References== Federal Minister! Today you will have to explain in concrete terms how you can spend almost a month after this decision on such an answer, in which you write: There will be no change, there will be no reduction of these exercises and thus the possibilities of training the military soldiers. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The limitation of these arms exercises is twofold in this act. On the one hand, there is a very close link to the training calendar in question, i.e. it is held in advance for the individual soldier, what his training is and what is not. Everything that does not serve this training cannot be done by voluntary arms exercises, but it must do voluntary military work. That means he doesn't get compensation for it, and it's also the question of how he's insured when something happens. But this is not even the only binding contained in this decree. Even if these training contents were necessary as part of the career profile, there is nevertheless a time limit of 20 percent of the minimum time required for the next level of service. What do these 20 percent mean, Mr. Minister of Defence? – This means, for example, that a Lieutenant who is waiting for him to become a Lieutenant and attends the corresponding courses can prove five days of additional training content. – Five days for a lieutenant to work in the force who has important leadership tasks to do! Five days he may participate in voluntary arms exercises during this period. Or: A Corporal, which has the training objectives for the train driver, has two days. Federal Minister! Show me in this book where the courses are listed, where there is a two-day course for this corporal who wants to continue to develop. There will also be no longer any possibility of military soldiers helping in the course of voluntary arms training in the field of basic service training. They have achieved through the recording stop that there are blatant problems in making the appropriate personnel available. In the future, it will no longer be possible for military soldiers – for example, students in summer during vacation – to help through voluntary arms exercises. All of this is due to this decree. All of this has not only been kept silent in this parliamentary response to the question, but you also conceal the military soldiers, because in the 1998 Scoreboard there is nothing at all of this limitation of arms exercises, but people should register quietly and then get the corresponding sluggish decisions. But, Mr Federal Minister, we will not like this, as we did not like it in the past. That is why I would like to make the following request: Request by Mr Scheibner and Mr Colleagues The National Council wants to decide: The written answer to the question 2707/AB of the Federal Minister for the Defense of the State on the question 2894/J concerning the "training and further training of soldiers of the presence, military and reserve booth" is not taken note of. They will have to get used to that we have responsibility in this House, including for all those soldiers who – as they have been at a military meeting today – come to us and ask for support. I think you see the state defense as half-day's work. We hear again and again that there are problems with the device. In a regiment that had 84 trucks, there are now only more 24, all the others have to be eliminated. In truth, however, it has no more, for this 24 had to give it to other units. A whole regiment! The principle is therefore: "In the battle with the bus!" How much is saved in the voluntary arms exercises, Mr. Federal Minister? – Save whole 18 million schillings It is through this release, which is a blow against the military's military thoughts! All 18 million schilling! What about these 18 million schillings? – You use these 18 million schillings in your ministry, because the 1998 budget will be increased by 40 million schillings. Take away the force, save on equipment and ground defenses, but increase the bureaucracy by 40 million schilling – that's your line, that's your policy! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! You'll have to decide! Are you personnel representatives, do you have any other political goals, or do you finally come to realize and take your place seriously? [[Abg. May. Posch: Don't cry like that!]] The national defence is too bad to be seen as half-day employment. It needs an active minister, who concentrates 100 percent on her problems, shows them and joins Parliament in a solution. It should not be the way you do it: on the morning Minister, in the afternoon staff representatives! [[Abg. Dkfm. Mühlbachler: Tell’ once, what do you suggest for a tone?]] That hurts the state defense. Mr President, ladies If you carry that, you're to blame yourself. But that's what you've got to do in your group.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e6983	The application submitted is based on § 92 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. I call Mr Gaál. The speaking time of the Members involved in the debate is 5 minutes each. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e7008	Mr President. Federal Minister! I must say, even I do not understand this decision, and I do not think that you really understand it. You didn't sign it yourself. I don't know if he knew you. Now he's probably known to you. I can only recommend: Please withdraw this decree, Minister of State. [[In the case of the SPÖ, the Freeman as well as the Abg. Hans Helmut Moser.]] For you, Mr Federal Minister, and all those who deal with the national defence and security issues, know very well that a functioning military system contributes to a high degree of acceptance of military national defence in all social groups. It has so far contributed significantly to the fact that the Austrian Federal Army is part of our democratic society and has been able to influence social trends and changes. Without the members of the militia, the current system would not be possible. It ensures the willingness of the associations and units to use and also helps to achieve the necessary level of use if necessary. Federal Minister! However, military activity and military use are based not only on the letters of the Wehrgesetz, but above all on the voluntary use and willingness of the military soldiers to provide services beyond the legal obligations. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dkfm. Mühlbachler]] Mr President, I should like to thank This is extremely important and necessary! Today, all domestic and foreign experts are quite right to believe that challenges to the security of Austria arise in areas where the military component is not expected from home or the military component is not needed. In the current system, it will not be possible to carry out the new operational tasks of the Federal Army – I mean, above all, assistance, territorial security, border defence, border defence in the regional area, and increased participation in international operations – without military soldiers. We have only recently visited Cyprus, where, under the direction of President Dr. Fischer, we have visited the UN soldiers stationed there, it is quite simply not possible to fulfil these international obligations without any military soldiers of all degrees. Especially where we really have a very good name and bear the name Austria, this military soldier needs it more than ever. Federal Minister! I therefore consider the process of the Ministry of Defence to be very, very short-sighted and not in the sense of a positive military policy. Every military soldier who volunteers for further education and training also does so because of a positive attitude to military national defence and out of conviction to contribute to the security of Austria. I am completely incomprehensible about why this potential is now being abandoned and why these people are being simply frustrated. – Minister of State! I appeal to you to make this foolish release immediately in my eyes. [[In the case of the SPÖ, the Freeman as well as the Abg. Hans Helmut Moser.]] We need action in many areas of the federal army. That is why I would like to take the opportunity to stress: We are not going to get around incisive reforms of the federal army's structure. These reforms concern the size of the army, its organization and its division and are also the basis for the necessary procurement in the military field. Federal Minister! I therefore think it is high time we made substantial structural changes. Due to the new operational tasks of the army, the army can be reduced. In the course of this process, it would be possible to professionalise the army and, as far as the tasks in international solidarity, but also the national mission are concerned, to increase the willingness to work. For these reasons, qualified military soldiers need to be trained and specifically promoted to those who do so voluntarily and at their own expense and provide their free time for further training. Therefore, once again: My group has no understanding of this decision.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e7087	The next speaker is Mr Maitz. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e7108	Mr President. Federal Minister of State Defense! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I saw the crocodile tears well – only, it's just not true! [[Abg. Scheibner: Of course!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That's not even rhyming!]] It is simply not true, Mr President. National defense is a precautionary system. The best precautions are, of course, the best possible training for cadre and military soldiers, as well as for all who are willing to make voluntary arms exercises. And the Austrian Federal Army is exemplary in continuing training for cadre and military soldiers. So there is no reason to make everything and every one bad. I just remember the training from basic military servants to Milak, which is now being conducted as a high-school course. [[Abg. Hans Helmut Moser: This has nothing to do with the voluntary arms practice!]] Yeah, it's coming! [[Abg. Young: When do the facts come?]] Come on! Come on! Maybe you're so good to listen to me, I've been listening to you in peace. There is a long chain of improvement and reform measures to be recognised. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] I would just like to say that, because Mr Scheibner mentioned this too, I would like to mention the command of foreign operations. [[Abg. Scheibner: Where are the wheel tanks we decided there?]] Wait! Wait! [[Abg. Young: Then the team will be sent abroad!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Haider.]] There are internationally recognized courses in our command foreign operations, as an example of genuine peace work that goes far into the future. 234 executives from 30 states, from armies all over the world, have given us a very good witness. [[Mr Scheibner and Mr Mag. Chief.]] On the specific question raised by Mr Scheibner, I would recommend to you and also to Mr Gaál to read the article published by the military officer in the "Soldatas" "No limitation of military work" by Colonel Withalm. [[Abg. Scheibner: Who's the newspaper for?]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: This is an order work!]] You can always say that. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Who pays, creates!]] The colleague also presented the education indicator. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: When's the paper?]] ==References== ==References====External links== No limitation of military work! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gaál.]] Please, Mr. Gaál, maybe you can read this, I'd like to make it available to you. Crocodile tears were for nothing. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Gaal: Why is there a release?]] Now let's get out of here. [[Abg. Jung: "You can't blame the federal army for that..." You wrote that!]] Please, Mr Jung! We now come to the occasion of this debate, the famous decree. [[Prolonged calls.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] ==References====External links== ==References== What does this decree say? [[Abg. May. Stadler keeps a newspaper article up to date. The speaker does not respond.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: This is a blind man!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: He always reads his speeches!]] We are, of course, safeguarding the ordered arms exercises. However, we focus the voluntary arms exercises on the necessary level and bind them to the unity of the military soldier, nothing new. [[Abg. Scheibner: Twelve days for the Lieutenant!]] Wrong. That's nothing new. The Miliz soldier used to be able to do his gun exercise where he found it right. Now he will make the voluntary training of weapons where it requires his function and his role as a military soldier to be bound to his unity and to a course of training defined for him. [[Abg. Scheibner: Five days!]] That's wrong. I'll show you that. [[Abg. Scheibner: Check it out! 20 percent!]] Thus, the offer for military soldiers at lower costs has become better quality and more target-oriented for those of them who actually need it in their Mob function. [[Call Members Scheibner and Young:No! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] [[Abg. Young: Now you have to go confession!]] As an additional offer... [[Abg. Scheibner: Please calculate it!]] You don't want to hear it because you don't want to hear the truth! There is an additional offer for military framework training. These are improvements in the current year 1997, which you have not accepted because you do not want to accept it. [[Abg. Scheibner: Because it's not true!]] The increase in the efficiency of training for military sub-officials through the transfer of the Miliz-UO course 1 directly following the ground defense service also means an advantage for the military soldiers. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Then everything is fine! Good luck! It's all right! The federal army is fine!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: What does this have to do with the voluntary arms exercises?]] This has to do with voluntary arms exercises. [[Abg. Scheibner: This is another problem!]] The continuing and further training opportunities for the Miliz-UO at HUAK will be extended. We were there together! Mr Scheibner does not accept it because he wants to raise the Minister of Defence.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e7502	I would ask for the final sentence, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e7518	Increase the intensity of training for military officers, involve qualified specialists for special functions and so on. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] You have a method that you can read. That party you never wanted...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e7545	Mr Maitz! I would ask for the final sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e7560	... in the meantime made that way. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Back to the back seat! Get off, Maitz!]] The liberals want to pursue, pursue and pursue!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e7599	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Haider. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e7620	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! We have asked for this question because, on the one hand, it is not the first time that you have not informed Parliament properly and given false information in your reply to the question, on the other hand, because it is already very provocative if you sit and laugh on the government bank during the legitimate precepts of our spokesperson and chairman of the defence committee. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Because it's not true! Because it's wrong!]] Federal Minister! It is not to laugh when 18 million schillings are invested in the central bureaucracy of your ministry, but this money is missing in the military and military exercises. This would correspond to the 50,000 days you would have available for training. That is exactly why we have made this request right. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Pour, pour, that's the only target!]] You have revealed Your ministry is not sufficiently in control! This is also the subject of comments in Austrian daily newspapers, in which it is simply inappropriate, on the one hand, he is ÖAAB-Obmann and on the other hand part-time defense minister and does not know who he is supposed to serve. That's the problem. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This problem has already been seen in the pension reform debate. [[Interlocutory calls from Dr. Maitz and Dkfm. Mühlbachler.]] ==References== June your partyobmann Schüssel says the pension reform was decided. [[Abg. Kiss: Mr President! What does the pension reform have to do with this issue?]] ==References== In June 1997, Mr Fassleven, who was in Rust, said that he was skeptical of Rust's decisions. ==References== In July, Mr Fassleven's Minister of Defence suddenly announced the shift in pension reform and said that no urgent measures were necessary. [[Call the ÖVP:For business!]] ==References== September 1997... [[Prolonged calls:]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] You have your pensions under the roof and subject, you have addressed it, but the population is not, that is the point! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Leiner: You too!]] ==References== In September 1997, the Minister suddenly said that he was willing to support the trade union when she demonstrated against the government in which he was sitting and his decisions were taken. That means he decides a demonstration of the union against himself! The summit was held on 28 October. On 1 September 1997, Mr Fassleven, as the Minister of Defense, who has no time and no money for training, said that there had been no decisions in Rust at all, there was no pension reform.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e7747	And now we're coming back to the interview.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e7762	Ladies and gentlemen! This therefore has a great deal to do with this question. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] This minister is a splitter who has no time for the federal army, but also no time to take care of the pension reform. He sits in a government and takes a pension reform there, but then protests against himself and announces a veto against himself in the government. [[Interlocutory calls from Dr. Maitz and Dkfm. Mühlbachler.]] Minister! In this case too, you have proved that the security of your post seems to be more important to you than the safety of pensions, for now you have said again that you want to know nothing more about Veto, which was announced yesterday. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You also appreciate the soldiers. Today we discussed the problem of Cyprus in the Council of Foreign Affairs. – It's the same thing there. They send the Austrian soldiers with inadequate equipment – not even helmets, scatter vests or protected tank vehicles – on their way to Cyprus. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dkfm. Mühlbachler.]] That's your policy. The main thing is, you have your chair as a defense minister! That's it. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You announce before this Parliament that you will do more for the defence of the country. They announce to the public that you will introduce a veto against a non-social pension reform. Now you fall over again because You'd rather save your ministerial chair. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Military work!]] They're sending our soldiers abroad, but they're not ready to equip them. Instead, you hide yourself in the Federal Government, accept cuts and risk our young people being threatened outside. That's what we blame you, Minister of State. You are a tearer in the truest sense of the word, and you will have to decide whether you will either resign as a minister or make a better policy.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e7851	The next speaker is Mr Hans Helmut Moser. Same time of speech.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e7875	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I think it really makes sense to discuss this answer in the House today. Federal Minister! One thing you must already like or say is that this answer is simply a point of order, because what you have written in it is simply not true. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and the Freeman.]] It is not true that there are no restrictions on voluntary arms exercises. It is not true that there are no cuts in budgetary and financial terms. That is why, Mr Federal Minister, you have misinformed Parliament with this reply to the question. I ask you the following question: Has Are you aware of this misinformation to Parliament, or do you not know what is happening in your place of business? Ladies and gentlemen! Both of them do not give you a good witness, Mr. Federal Minister, and your department. This must also be said here in this House, because, with this restriction, with this decision of August this year, you will have a blow against the militia. Because of this We have to expect negative effects on the field of training and the level of training. This is exactly the point where we have demanded that there be a professionalization within the Austrian federal army. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Mr. Moser! Pension reform! On the matter!]] But with these measures you do not come to professionalization. On the contrary: Less training, of course, also means a lower level of training and the fact that the German army is able to carry out its tasks to a lesser extent than before. But this decision also has a negative impact on the service, Mr Federal Minister. In the meantime, it was going to be time and place – and it was also the commanding officers' measures to be able to compensate for the wrong personnel management within the department – to use the willingness to practice a voluntary arms exercise to use military personnel in the field of training or as human resources in the peace organization. All of this is now being suppressed. I quote: Other restrictions: Wearing arms exercises for military service as a time soldier or being admitted as a military person on time are no longer allowed. - Quote. That means: They prevent the lack of personnel management, which has led to the fact that we are no longer really able to cover the cadres, being compensated for, and that these bridging measures lead to an improvement in the situation. This will prevent this. Next point: The use of military officers as military soldiers and human resources in the peace organization is generally prohibited. – These were the measures taken by the commanders in order to be half-rounded. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that the Minister of Defence is indeed in need of action. I agree with my colleague, Mr Gaál, who meant that it would be useful and necessary for this decision to be withdrawn, revised and re-issued, in any form whatsoever, to be given to the forces. Federal Minister! If you have budgetary constraints – you admit it yourself – then please finally put in place the necessary reform measures! Meeting You finally take steps to save at the right place! Save with this restriction in the field of training You're in the wrong place. I would also like to ask you to look at the structure of the budget and finally eliminate the imbalance between staff costs, investment costs and operating costs. At present, we have 63 percent staff costs, but only 37 percent of the funds are earmarked for investment and operating costs. Where are you going? [[Abg. May. Main: Only at the central stations!]] – You delete again or reduce the operating costs. They remove again or reduce in the area of the troupe, because it is easier. It would be high time to reduce and reform where disproportionately high expenditure is involved. I would point out that there is a misunderstanding between the administration and the force. There you have still not put in place the personnel measures and the necessary reform steps. But that would be necessary. I really call on you to take these measures at this point. And I call on you not only to give the field of training verbally, but also to give concrete weight, a real meaning and priority! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e7934	The Federal Minister has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e7956	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. May. Stadler: Minister! As what do you say now: as ÖAAB-Obmann or as Minister?]] It is quite interesting that you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, obviously have not been able to do so during your entire presence in Parliament. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Declarate! Explain! Not only do I want to know, but also the ÖVP!]] If that were the case with Dr. Haider, it would surprise me less. He's not here as often as you do. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Minister! Didn't you notice the Blessed Stadler? I was there all the time!]] I listened very carefully to the speeches made by the individual speakers. Of course, I also take the arguments very seriously in each individual case. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: First you laughed!]] Of course, there are also things that one cannot always take very seriously, but I may also ask you to take seriously what officials – highly qualified officials and officers – who are responsible for training and who have thought about how to increase efficiency, and then put themselves into practice in a decree that I, of course, also stand for. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Don't shove behind officials!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: What are you talking about to the officials again? That's incredible!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: The Minister has the last responsibility!]] The fact that today – I believe, for the first time in my time as Minister of Defense – Dr. Haider has appeared in the list of speakers on the topic of state defense... [[Intercession with the liberals.]] Maybe it was the case before. It wasn't like it was really very sustainable... [[Abg. Dr. Haider: No, no, no, no! Three times, Minister!]] Well, it was maybe three times in seven years. This has actually led me to think about what might be the reason. I must say that the presumption that I have had that it could be another reason has been confirmed by your remarks. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You have a wretched long time! That's your problem!]] You are about to find some way to discuss the pension reform. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Is that immaterial?]] This does not surprise me insofar as you have obviously not been present in this debate so far, because you have been involved in the elections and have not participated in the debate on the essential issues here in the House. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Young: And you're always abroad!]] [[Call the Freeman: Come to the matter once!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: He didn't use anything, the election bet!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: After all, 3 percent!]] I have, of course, taken this answer to the question and also the discussion of this answer to the question to deal with the subject. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] What is stated here is that the number and supply of training courses in the Education Indicator 97 has not been reduced in comparison to the supply of previous years is correct. For this purpose, the officials are fully present, including in this wording. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] On the other hand, there has never been any doubt that there is a directive which should be visited by the military officers and sub-officials or candidates et cetera. The requirement is that not everyone should attend any course, but that he should attend the courses necessary for his career, for his arms, for the function he is seeking, and that to an extent that does not exceed 20 percent of the required courses. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's it! Very right!]] In other words, he has no longer the possibility to exceed the number of courses required for a certain function by 20 percent in the future. That's what I'm talking about. [[Abg. Scheibner: Five days for the Lieutenant, two days for the Corporal!]] Of course, there are also other courses that may be interesting; but it is undoubtedly crucial and important for everyone to deal with the fact that there is a target-oriented training. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If it is necessary for a function, it is as far as possible to perform a voluntary exercise 69 days a year, when it is targeted or the excess is no more than 20 percent of the training for a particular function. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: What function?]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Why is colleague Gaál opposed?]] I should like to point out how important it is to me that the role of the militia is also important for the future, that there have been some new measures to increase the efficiency of training as a military officer and officer, for example, that the relocation of the Military Subofficial Course 1 has been carried out directly to the ground military service and can thus be completed as early as the following year. This is important for all stakeholders and also increases efficiency without increasing the number, simply because the rate of oblivion is not so high in the meantime. [[Abg. Scheibner: This has nothing to do with the release.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Can you say something to release?]] There is also an extension of the continuing and continuing training offer for military officers at HUAK through various seminars – with a duration of three to five days – including in the areas of leadership, military policy, computer, military and self-management, training method and development courses in leadership behaviour. [[Abg. Scheibner: Five days for the Lieutenant!]] There is also an increase in the intensity of training for military officers, such as by establishing train commanding courses in the training system which were only introduced in the previous year, and the integration of accompanying seminars at the Theresian Military Academy in the training course "Leader behaviour, Wehrpolitik, Einsatzung". [[Abg. Scheibner: Which officer does IT have?]] Fourth: Inclusion of additional highly qualified professionals in special functions, such as the training of psychologists as GWD, in order to create here the prerequisite for a subsequent training for the officer of the higher military professional service or also the medical and technical service in the career as a military officer. [[Abg. Scheibner: You don't need to read that!]] That's how I could continue. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I am particularly concerned with improving efficiency in this area. I believe that if you allow each individual to attend 20 per cent more courses than the number of courses required for the next function, it is quite a directive that makes sense. [[Abg. May. Stadler: What about your veto? What about your veto in the government, Minister, Mr ÖAAB-Obmann?]] I would also like to say: If it turns out that over time there or there the experience is that this should not be enough, I am the last one who would not also be willing to reconsider a certain measure. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But if one screams from the beginning and opposes what experts have arranged, then I have to say that is actually incomprehensible to me. This is clear to me only by the political considerations which you have obviously led to a particular instrument in order to be able to raise a completely different issue on the other hand. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: What about your announced Veto, you great fighter? Say something about it! You're too cowardly for the veto!]] If you had been dealing with this before, this debate would not be necessary.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e8384	That concludes the debate on the reply to the question. Mr Scheibner's request was not to take note of the written reply to the question 2707/AB by the Federal Minister for the Defence of the State concerning the possibilities for training, continuing training and training of soldiers. I put this request to the vote by Mr Scheibner and ask those ladies and gentlemen who vote in favour of non-knowledge to give a sign in this regard. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Get up, Mr Gaál!]] – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. This is the end of this negotiating part of today's session. The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e8423	I can resume the negotiations on the first reading of the Federal Finance Act for 1998, together with investments. The next speaker is Mr Gaugg. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e8447	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The treatment of the question answered by the Minister of Defense in oral form has been very much at a time when the extent to which the incense has come in here – in good German – was almost unbearable. Mr Marizzi has given a praise to the government work of recent years. He doesn't seem to be interested in it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] Mr Marizzi praises the state-owned industry. I can only tell you that the whole thing has only become good when Mr Koppler, Mr Ruhaltinger and Mr Co's wings have been supported. These are the ones who are responsible for the fact that there are thousands of people standing on the street. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Then with a whining voice: Each speaker of the government parties speaks of uncertainty by the opposition. Now I have to ask: Is the opposition in the question of the poster uncertain? Does the opposition in the question of social decommissioning or social disassembly insecure? – The party book economy celebrates happy originals’. We are constantly listening to praise from abroad. We always hear that Austria is presented as an example abroad. I wonder how it is about newspaper reports like those in the "Handelsblatt" from Düsseldorf, 10th century. July can come where the social partners' package on employment policy is broken on two sides – almost to the level of ridiculousness. That's it. This is your truth and your view of things. All the government is doing is one thing, so you are convinced that the 200 000 unemployed are an invention of the opposition parties. [[Abg. Marizzi: This is the competition!]] They believe that the 9 000 job seekers are an invention of the opposition parties, and you probably also believe that it is an invention of the opposition parties that one million people live in Austria at the poverty line. That's your kind of politics. This is not an uncertainty of the opposition parties, it is the policy of the government parties that is increasingly uncertain to the people of that country. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] All of you, who are supposed to have so much responsibility – from the Minister of Finance to Mr ÖAAB-Obmann and so on – are: Where are the actual insurers of this Republic? - They're in the government. On the question of pension reform, the Austrian population is uncertain because it does not know what will come at all. The Austrian population is also uncertain about employment. Mr Bundeskanzler Klima was speaking of a reduction in working time without a wage compensation. It was he who was insecure to people in terms of jobs. He said: Therefore, one will also have to get used to the category of abolition in politics. – It is diametrically opposed to the Minister of Finance, who said in a just-exemplary budget speech of altsocialist embossing in this House: We are, and we do everything anyway and are the greatest, the best and the most beautiful. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] – The problem is that reality is another. Where are your initiatives announced, Minister of Finance? Where are your initiatives? – We read in the budget speeches about the initiatives of the Federal Minister. The fact is that you cannot even work with your own social partners. You can't even join your own social partners! How else can it be explained that we are suddenly reaching letters from the famous social partners who are bitterly complaining about this form of government policy? [[Abg. Marizzi: Are your bedding letters there?]] Indeed, the government template does not serve this issue in many respects. On pension reform: Marizzi, listen carefully! Mrs. Schmidleithner even wrote me a letter to do this. Then there would be another letter here. It says: As this pension reform hits the largest group of the population... Listen, Marizzi! Maybe you got the letter too, didn't you? - They don't send it to you at all? [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Your flight bill to Russia!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Your flight bill to Minsk with Luczensky!]] That's what it says: You take certain arguments into account in your voting behaviour. - You don't need to send us the letter. We already protect the people who have a pension claim. But the SPÖ and ÖVP have long since ceased to do this! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The summit will be reached in two further letters: We see in the process of the government a more diktat. – This must be broken on the tongue. Or: The current procedure of the government can only be used as a dictatorship... – What is Dictat? – Dictate is dictatorship. [[Abg. Arbitrator: Miss! Come to the dictatorship or dictatorship! Dictat is dictatorship!]] This is the feeling of your social partners. This is how she deals with the social partners. They write not only the reds, but also the blacks. It also writes the WIFI Austria that they no longer know where to turn on the question of "unscrupulous" – they have written – absurd double taxation on the question of adult education. In their despair – and this is interesting, Commissioner Schieder – the social partners turn to us. They are already turning to those to whom solution competence is assigned. They can't be with you for a long time. They can't be with you anymore! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Because you know what that is? It's really exciting. [[Abg. Arbitrators: That can't be despair! That's confusion! Confusion, not despair!]] Mr. Rürup is assigned for a study. You don't have the courage to implement it. Where is the reform? Is the reform necessary at all? – If Mr Novotny says today... No, no, no, Sorry! That was Mr Feurstein, who was very proud to say that the share of pensions fell from 31 percent in 1986 to 23.9%. Then I wonder: Are we really that fast? Where are all things of doing out of the budget? Mr Bundesfinanzminister! Still on the question of cold progression before my speaking time has ended. They are over-compulsory in paying taxes on Austrian workers to an extent that is no longer unbearable. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In 1994 there were 135 billion schilling, this year there will be 187 billion schilling. Here I would have expected you, as a long-term financial officer of the city of Vienna, to have something in mind that you might return to the workers the money you take away from them. But no, you're still intensifying this with the support of the 1998 grants. You should be ashamed of that. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The whole budget you present to us is really just a continuation of debt policy – that's all. The budget shows no initiatives, offers no prospects and is not forward-looking, but we would have expected that. We will have an opportunity to discuss the budget in detail. But I have to say that I would have expected more from a finance minister who is being brought to a government than we were presented.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e8601	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Niederwieser. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e8622	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! The area I would like to deal with at the first reading of the budget is science and research. But first of all a few comments on the comments made by some previous speakers. – Mr Gaugg has spoken and has already left us. He obviously does not expect a contentious discussion of his arguments to take place, otherwise he would remain in the hall. But that is also true with the reflections on pension reform. Of course, the considerations presented by the Federal Government on this issue will be discussed and will need to be discussed in such a way. There is no need to think at all about the proposals of the liberals on pension reform, they are not serious, nor are they at all present. So, of course, the liberals are relatively easy to criticize. And that's at all. Your style: Whatever this federal government does, whatever this coalition does – you will never find it right. Mr Gaugg has recently referred to the rules governing adult education. From this point of view, liberal speakers a year ago and even this year have complained that we are making exceptions for the recognised adult education institutions in the social security sector. Now these derogations will no longer apply from the summer of next year, and now you will be resuming that these exceptions will be deleted. That's how you're doing: all around, just criticism. They demand a third of fewer officials. But if something actually happens in a specific case, then the Head of Parliament comes out and says: This is about six people, and these officials must not be dismantled, because they must not be privatized! So you really can't take your criticism very seriously. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The science and research budget has 27.8 billion schilling. This is a plus of just over 2 billion compared to the 1997 estimate. This is an increase of 7.8 percent in the field of science and research. This is a very good teaching at a time of a economical budget course. We really must bear in mind that, in the field of universities, provision is made for the work to be done. This teaching proves that this coalition of science and research has a very high priority in its policy. We have around 1 billion more available in the university for staff in 1998, for the art universities 109 million, which are increases of about 10 percent each. In any case, in conjunction with the increase of almost 50 per cent in the technical colleges, it shows that we are on the agenda with the political projects and that the really difficult stop at universities that have been specifically dominated last year can be eased. Young scientists can find work again at the universities, and this is important. We have a plus to mention some numbers, of about 8 percent in student homes. It is very important for the students that they find accommodation near the study location. We have a plus of 94 million in the funding of studies and we will also try, as Mr Mertel has already mentioned, to make improvements in the rules on travel costs. Some sentences still cover the whole field of research – he has been mentioned by some speakers today –: Of course, it would be better for all of us, who are responsible for science and research, to find this kind of privatisation already in the budget figures, no question. However, we must note that in recent years, for example, the fund for the promotion of scientific research, the FWF, has also experienced increases: 692 million, 700 million, 729 million and in the 1998 budget, if we are only cautious about the privatisation proceeds, 750 to 770 million schilling. These are indeed increases which are higher than the general budget increases. We must, however, pay particular attention to the issues of increasing research resources – and the Minister of Finance has already pointed out: It will not be enough to increase only the State resources for research, but it will have to change the instruments so that private resources can be used to a greater extent than before for research. The cooperation between scientific research and enterprises should be improved. Only then will it be possible to achieve the objective of significantly increasing the research rate. If we analyze this budget or the part for science and research, we see above all one thing: With this budgetary consolidation course, we are doing something very important for those generations who are currently in schools and universities: It will, if it gets into work, less money, less taxes than we currently have to use to repay debts or to pay interest which the State has to pay for the debts that have been received. And that, I believe, is the decisive thing that we can do for the next generation with this budget course: to improve the working environment for future policy. If you look at the science budget in particular, you could almost think it was a kind of declaration of love by the Minister of Finance at the universities, because this teaching has actually been done to an extent with which we can carry out the much needed improvements and make again appointments. This budget is a good basis for the discussions in the coming weeks, and I think it will also be a good basis for making a decision in this House in mid-November. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e8690	Mr Schuster. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e8711	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The first reading of the 1998 budget gives us the opportunity to talk generally about the budget, but also about specific areas. The area I would like to briefly address – it seems to me very important – is the area of the Austrian family. I would like to focus on how this budget affects the Austrian families. I am allowed to speak here from the budget speech of the Federal Minister of Finance of the 18th century. Citing September – it seems to me that this statement is very essential –: "Finally, the quality of life and the environment, social peace and security are hardly anywhere else as great as in Austria." – This statement, my own Ladies and gentlemen, give the families courage and strength. I therefore think that when we talk about family today, we are aware that family lives and experiences in many forms. The classic, the ideal family is just a form of living together. Today we know that there are many manifestations called family. Whether it is a man-woman's child, whether it is the single parent, the single parent or other communities of life, it is important to strengthen and strengthen all these groups that today raise a child. We know, however, that the ideal image is, of course, marriage, because marriage is basically long-lasting and is most likely to give the child the necessary stability. That was undisputed. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In the last year, 1996, 18 000 marriages were divorced in Austria. 90 percent of this high number of couples have agreed to separate, but 10 percent are in dispute. The dramatic thing is that 16 500 children are affected by these divorces. It is important here that we strengthen our acceptance of these weak ones, of these children. One essential point would be to ask why these families have been divorced. I believe that good financial security and better tax justice for families who would not have moved one or another family to this step and would have kept their spouses together. I therefore believe that the central point of our work, ladies and gentlemen, must be a fair tax system for greater justice between families and persons without children. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In order to create more justice in this area, a minimum tax-free living for children must be guaranteed. In order to achieve this objective, Mr Federal Minister, we are required to raise the amount of child drop-off. I mean, to return to your sentence, which I have quoted from the budget speech, regarding security and stability, we simply need more justice among the children's rich families. We know that the more people living in a family, the closer the financial room becomes. The 1998 budget provides for an amount of 55,391 billion schilling for the youth and family sectors. But I must mention that not only does money create happy families or money creates a family-friendly climate in Austria – much more. Ladies and gentlemen! On the one hand, I do not fully understand the statements and press release made by the spokesperson of the Social Democratic Party, Mrs Mertel, when she believes that the family already has a high priority in society, so there is no need for an image campaign for the families. This statement by the family spokesperson, Mrs Mertel, was made on the day that the responsible family minister Bartenstein went to the public, pointed to the new poverty in Austria and said that Austria, with its 200,000 children living at or below the poverty line, had to do more for these families, and this requires an advertising campaign for the family. To this end, the family spokesperson of the Social Democratic Party said that it was not necessary to start an image campaign for the family. [[Abg. DDr. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) That the family has a high priority, isn't it?]] Appreciate Members of the Social Democratic Party! Two days later, the party president of your party and German Chancellor climate said the following – I quote literally from the press release –: "Clima also announced a SPÖ campaign on the topic of child-friendly Austria for autumn." So the Federal Chancellor is the opinion of the competent Federal Minister. That's what I'm saying. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] High house! Upper Austria has a special family package, and I should like to focus very briefly on the essential points. Upper Austria has put on its feet a good model, which is also applicable at the federal level. First: Every child in Upper Austria will have his kindergarten at the latest in 1998. Secondly, The country takes over the costs of child support to the hospital. Thirdly, There are 1 000 s for low-income parents at school at the start of the school. Fourth: School events help; the country supports socially weak families with 1 000 s per child. Fifth, you open a bottle For the period of three years, the country takes over the insurance premium for mothers in the household who care for their newborn child. Ladies and gentlemen! It would be good if we were to implement these measures at the federal level. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I'll bet you: What the individual himself can do, he must also do himself. That is the culture of independence. I believe, however, that in the Community, where aid is needed, the forces must be pooled so that they can be helped. This would be the new culture of aid, and the Federal Government has set up the framework with this budget in such a way that a new culture of aid can be imagined, even if one or another in the family sector can still be improved. I hope that this Minister of Finance, together with his colleagues, will be able to achieve some of the points that I have now pointed out over the next few years, because this budget is consolidated and new debt is set in such a way as to give families a good future.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e8778	The next speaker is Mr Haigermoser. - He has the word.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e8799	High house! Federal Minister! Concepts are always required. So that I can save myself from the lecture on our medium-sized policy, I can hand over a copy with a handwritten dedication to you, then we can discuss the content very carefully here. [[The speaker put a brochure in his place by Federal Minister Edlinger.]] [[Federal Minister Edlinger: But that was missed!]] - Excuse me, Minister of State, if I was researching, but I have very little time. Mr Khol! After Mr. Schwarzenberger today, with his agricultural hands heavily drawn by the work, clap acclaim when it came to the butter price, and Mr. Andreas Khol has put 40 to 45 S for the kilo butter in the room... [[Abg. Rossmann: The drawn hands he has from counting money, not from working]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: 16 to 22 S for a quarter!]] This is not true for a quarter at all – at most when it comes from the agricultural factory. A quarter of butter from agricultural holdings in Austria costs 17, 18 p. So 4 times 18 are according to Adam Riese, the famous and well-known computer artist, 72 p. – so much to this scarf snack that we have driven today. Federal Minister! Let me develop a few thoughts about the economic location of my closer home country, the industrial and service region of Salzburg-Hallein. This concerns the economic location, the purchasing power, the apprentices, the tax policy, Mr. Federal Minister. Benckiser concludes: 70 jobs away, Solvay concludes: 350 jobs away, hallein paper reduced by hundreds of jobs, a large meat processing operation shows impact side – I hope it doesn't close – and a shipping house with 100 employees, according to ORF, is wearing the idea of moving to Holland. These are figures, facts from recent history. I don't want to paint black, but just put these things on the table. It does nothing to us, Mr Federal Minister, if you and the government coalition deny these things, put their heads in the sand, as Mr Schwarzenberger always does, according to the famous bird-strauss-man. Ladies and gentlemen! These sad events should also lead you, Mr. Federal Minister, to a corresponding study of conscience. You should ask yourself: Why did such an election in Upper Austria happen last Sunday for social democracy? [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: Are the crocodile tears?]] Are the citizens guilty of this because they have not recognized your research policy? Mr Niederweiser! Are the citizens guilty of this or is it your policy? Now I would not have to break my head for party political reasons if the cause and effect were not so close to each other, namely the effect that your financial policy is responsible for the fact that, as previously quoted, jobs are faltering that businesses migrate, Austria is at risk as an economic location, and therefore huge problems arise for the budget, for the situation of apprentices et cetera. That's fact! [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: That's only half the truth!]] Whether it's half the truth, we better not argue about it, definitely it's a fact. Or do you want to deny that these things have happened? Ladies and gentlemen! They are tax-political – this has already been demonstrated several times by free speakers – only on the road. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr. Niederweiser! If you don't want to listen to us, at least listen a little into the citizenship of this country! [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: I am listening to you all the time!]] Make this try! Mr Novotny! You're always on the road here in a very obsessive manner, saying: The liberals have no idea, in case of doubt they know nothing!, and so on. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Bring proof of truth!]] But if we already have to get your stand on us, I have to tell you: Her policy has been "ver-Novotny-sierted". [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: That's a good word!]] That means you won't notice anything. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! They take no note of what is happening in the world and in Austria in advance. Mrs. Tichy-Schreder! Her boss, Mr. Madethaner, today sang the high song of the Chamber of Commerce and said: Well, there are the evil liberals who always claim!, and he has once again done himself to the messengers after ancient Roman manners. So according to the motto: There comes the messenger who brings the bad news, he rides into Parliament here, and now we see that we shoot him verbally. Now I ask you, Mrs Tichy-Schreder: Where do these news come from, which we quote here so often? The trade association, which has nothing to do with you, says in an issue of 8. October 1997: This makes the location Austria unattractive!, and then comes with examples. The WIFI Austria, your association, Mrs. Colleague, writes to us with date of 3. In October 1997, Mr Haigermoser lamented that it was planned to introduce, I quote, a 'unscrupulous double taxation'. – Who was the causer of this message? The "Young Economy" demands better framework conditions for young entrepreneurs. The Chamber of Commerce says that well-belief importers are asked to register. President Maderthaner says: Officecratic reduction is a command of the hour! 36 billion schillings have to spend the economy every year. Then it goes on: 50,000 entrepreneurs. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: Read well!]] What are you looking for, Mrs. Tichy-Schreder, your master's true servant? Where do you find these? Do you find them with the magnifying glass or with your glasses or with my glasses? [[Abg. Dr. Nowotny: (in the direction of Abg. Tichy-Schreder) with his glasses not!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: His glasses are a dark glasses!]] Or are you willing to create framework conditions? Are you willing to create positive framework conditions, or do you want to meet your own demand: bureaucracy is missing founders' independence!Unknown term type: "%s".? And so on and so on. Ladies and gentlemen! They have today shaped the word – it is an old calender, but true anyway –, pride comes before the case. This pride you practice every day, because You don't listen to the callers. They explain the callers as callers in the desert and are not willing to do something also in research funding. Federal Minister Edlinger! I was good things and full of hope when you took up this office. Mr Klima has failed in this office, we know. But now you're on the road right back in these retired socialist paths. At last put on a firmer footwear, Minister of State, to create a tax system which will enable Solvay-Halvic and Benckiser to stay in Austria and not to leave and lock. That is why we should work together! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Now you're saying, This message is not true, and Mr. Maderthaner rejoices. He is just as a broken personality as Mr. Fassl evening, according to the motto: Who is stronger: Me or me? – He often had to read Nestroy to find himself in it. [[Abg. Dr. Nowotny: That's where we found a lot about you too!]] In the same way you have emphasized at the shop opening times, according to the motto, also free to Nestroy: Locking the vault was my greatest joy, as long as I was in action! – Ladies and gentlemen! How long have you taken to take a step in the right direction in this question?- Oh, my God! Ladies and gentlemen! There are piled up on the side of the Freedom proposals. If you do not believe in the economic location of Austria and your financial policy, Mr. Finanzminister, you believe at least the experts, for example Professor Josef Mugler of the Economic University of Vienna, who answered the question of why the large-scale founding offensive announced by the government parties was not a concerted action: There is a need for greater confidence in government stability and pre-planning on the tax path. But you don't follow that. There are retroactive tax laws, no calculation of politics and bocks jumps every day. That's not just a note from the liberals! The economic operators, in particular the international, are aware of this very quickly and therefore leave Austria, Mr. Federal Minister. But that is not what we, the liberals, want, because we are worried about the economic location of Austria. You should also obey the opposition series! Even if you do not admit today, you will be very quick to believe that a lot of things are included in our proposals, which could destroy these bad predictions. In this sense, I still hope for your understanding. But you still need to confirm this faith by active action. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Your colleagues are waiting for the conclusion!]] The "Ver-Nowotny-seration" has already done enough in this country!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e9027	The next speaker is Mr Sigl. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e9048	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! Austria is one of the richest states and can point to a very positive recovery process in recent decades. A policy of interest for the social groups, which was not aimed at confrontation but at cooperation and social compensation, has been a major factor in this development. It is therefore in the interest of all Austrians to pursue a budgetary policy that is forcing the continuation and further development of the good economic position of Austria. In order to achieve this objective, we should and must continue to follow the budgetary path taken by the double budget in 1996/97. This successful path of fiscal consolidation, according to some experts, whose circle I was able to read recently, will also count Mr. Dr. Van der Bellen, will be able to end from the turn of the millennium. But also numerous structural reforms, such as the disseminating of companies and targeted investments in the economic and labour market, are parts of the budget policy, which is of particular importance to us social democrats. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The 1998 budget estimate presented by Federal Minister Edlinger provides for a deficit of 2.6% of the gross domestic product and also meets, among other things, the criteria for participation in economic and monetary union, which I believe we must necessarily belong to. Only by means of an economic and monetary union will Europe be able to claim its competitive strength towards the US and the East Asian region for a longer period of time. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It seems that a group in this House has not yet been able to understand this. But I am sure that it will change its opinion as always when the issue becomes more popular. Furthermore, the 1998 Federal Estimate represents an expenditure discipline, a performance state and a technology and export offensive. I would also like to point out that, of course, every federal budget has an impact on the economy, but the economic situation also has a decisive impact on the federal budget. According to the latest forecasts, we can expect an economic growth of 2.5 percent in 1998 and thus overcome the growth weakness of recent years. For the year 1999, growth seems to be even stronger, and it is likely that from this point on the labour market will again be expected to be relaxing. The forecast inflation rate for 1998 figures the Institute for Economic Research at 1.6 percent, which would continue to ensure price stability in our country. Together with the targeted impact of the budget, we will continue to develop the economic location of Austria and thus improve the employment situation. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is important for us to fight against unemployment and combat the devastating social consequences of unemployment. The opposition parties have identified the budget estimate as too restrictive and do not consider it appropriate to address the labour market problem. I would like to keep this in mind that 20 000 jobs per year will be secured in the next five years alone by the infrastructure initiative initiated by the Federal Government and made possible by the Federal Government's proposal. Similarly, the funding for the technology offensive, which is intended to ensure an advantage in the various international markets through increased research and technological innovation, will not miss its impact. High house! The 1998 Federal Estimate will continue to strengthen the competitive position of Austria. Low inflation rates, investment in research and development, well-trained workers, state-of-the-art infrastructure are the success factors for Austria's competitiveness in Europe. I am sure that, with the 1998 Federal Budget proposal, the priority political objectives, first, the good employment situation, second, the attractiveness of the economic location of Austria and thirdly, the recovery of the necessary fiscal scope for action, in particular the long-term financing of our social state, will be achieved, thus making another excuse for a slim, efficient, economically strong and socially balanced state. We Social Democrats are therefore happy to agree to the Federal Finance Act for 1998.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e9119	The next speaker is Mrs Dr. Brinek. She's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e9141	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! It is almost obvious that the 1996 and 1997 budget rates have been voted, and I hope that this proposal will be followed by the 1998 budget. Why is it important for the budget to be correct? – Not because Maastricht, Brussels, Strasbourg or anyone else is interested in it, but because Austria itself must be interested in being operational, autonomous and future-proof. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We hope, ladies and gentlemen, that what we call future openness – the change from the industrial society to the knowledge society – is that this capacity for the future can be overcome. What is the change taking place? – In the structure of work, i.e. in the organization of work, in relation to self-employment to "individuality", in the changing of places of work into one and the same life, in the change of professional identities. All of this will not be the exception, but more and more the rule. That is what we have to prepare for and we have to ensure that we have the manoeuvring mass of manoeuvring, and in order to achieve this, we must pursue active employment policy: this requires a budget that is true. What else to consider, ladies and gentlemen? – Our social systems are currently in discussion. They come from a time when other questions have been answered. We need to change these systems slowly and slowly, under the suspension of hardness, because, unlike the dictatorship in which this is different, democracy endures and suffers only an evolutionary process of change. I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to listen carefully to all those who say that this has to be radical, from today to tomorrow, and to ask the people behind it, and to consider whether they are taking it seriously with democracy and not in reality having other dictatorial intentions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I remind you – you can follow this in the history of the law-making process – that, for example, the General Civil Code was for the first time only for 15 years. There was a self-restriction to try it out. There were certain laws in church law that included a clause ad experimentum. That's what they wanted to say: Let's try it for a while! Again: Changes can always be handled slowly. General solutions, universal solutions are not suitable for dealing with differentiated and complex problems. Where is it to be set up and what is it necessary to have flexibility in the budget? Flexibility is required – whether or not Now you see the EU's white papers as to whether you are analyzing the trends of globalisation, you can see it everywhere – under the greatest possible protection of the individual, namely of the individual as a man and as a woman. In the future, wife and husband must understand themselves in the same way as someone who leads a working life and performs family pleasures and obligations together and slowly builds up a second and third "age-care leg". That's target number one. Target number two: Education animation. What does that mean? – Statistics and recent research tell us that the proportion of women in general higher education remains behind that of men. Women are on the men's stand in 1951. Gender-specific educational differences have decreased far less in Austria than in other countries. The generation of 25 to 35-year-old women in Austria is the fourth worst in OECD statistics. Each woman aged 4 to 25 has no certificate of qualification beyond compulsory schooling. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that if we create the necessary manoeuvring mass by means of good budgetary policy, we should be here. What do I mean by that? - A change of consciousness is important. It is not only about formal qualifications, but also about a general change in the head. It is also important to learn about the world of work. We have not sufficiently observed this dimension so far. Investments in education and research are also indispensable. The direct employment factor has so far been too little illuminated. When the working world changes, people who think and develop concepts also need to think about it. The issue of active labour market policy has already been addressed by my previous speakers, Feurstein and colleagues, in detail. In this context, it is necessary to strengthen the diversity of training courses. This shows us the EU networks. Keywords: Part-learning, modular way in the acquisition of further qualifications, vocational courses and courses. IBM International addresses the topic of further training: Each employee is his own educational manager. It is therefore important not to respond to the issue with a uniform obligation to exempt from education, either by law or by law, but by a much more flexible way. Other important points: better estimate of skills needs and development of competence profiles. Ladies and gentlemen! I conclude with the exception of a statement by Björn Engholm, who says: "If education is essential for personal identity and professional success, then education is a central hub for the distribution of opportunities." – This opportunity must be used! Allow me a little comment to my predecessor Haigermoser: How compatible was the function of the head of state of Carinthia and the party officer Haider at that time? Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e9217	The next speaker is Mrs Mares Rossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e9241	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Federal Minister! [[Federal Minister Edlinger talks with several representatives who are at the government bank.]] Perhaps it is possible to contact you directly in a first budget reading. – Thank you very much. Mr Finanzminister! After 27 years of red financial policy, you and your group have finally managed to destroy the largest Austrian service sector, tourism. This is clear from the trade balance-of-balance-sheet balance-sheet data alone. They know that in 1992 the balance was still 68 billion schilling, while this year it is likely that only nearly 20 billion will be expected. Minister! However, they also took the view that it was not possible for farms to make reserves even in the last few years. The companies do not have any reserves in the field of quality improvement. It is always required to carry out quality improvements. But there are no reserves for it! There are also no reserves for improving infrastructure, there are no reserves for investments of any other kind, whether it be structural or other investments. The promised EU funds have partly flown to Burgenland, where artificially new tourism regions have been built in the previously non-tourist area. It is only a matter of time how long the farms can survive there. And the EU funding for the already existing tourist areas is holding you back, Minister! I've got a paper in my hand to prove this. They have also clearly stated in the Regional Fund budget, although hidden, but nevertheless, that, for example, you have not paid out EU funds to the tourism association in Styria. [[Abg. May. Steindl: Can you prove this?- Oh, my God!]] I can prove it. – Commissioner Fischler, your "Mister Europe", has even intervened with the Minister of Finance on this matter – this will be You may be interested, Mr Steindl, but the Minister of Finance has not yet exhausted the funds. Federal Minister! As an entrepreneur, I ask you very seriously how you would call it. If I did this in my farm, it would be a tax evasion. [[Call to the liberals: Right!]] As you say, I don't want to speak out here at all. [[Complaints with the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Steindl: That's still going on!]] But the government is all completely indifferent anyway. My colleague Haigermoser has already explained this. Federal Minister! They seem completely indifferent to what happens to the young entrepreneurs. They increased the interest rates half a year ago, at a phase of low interest rates. They have gone here and reduced the funding of young entrepreneurs in the budget by 10 million. They have also done nothing to make it easier for energy-intensive plants to apply energy taxes. I am thinking of indoor bath and sauna facilities; they no longer know how to get over the rounds. They are also completely indifferent to what happens to the companies that have to contend with the loss presentation. You are completely indifferent even to your promise in this regard. And everywhere the ÖVP is involved. They are also the supposedly unique 13th. Sales tax date completely indifferent. There are even sanctions if you don't pay on time. They are completely indifferent – and this, for me, is the indifference summit – that even now the recovery profits are taxed. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Imagine!]] You go here and enrich yourself at the crash of companies, Minister! This is so unscrupulous that I even call it a body-floating thing. That's for me body-floating! A farm that has nothing left has yet to be taxed. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In other words, in the future, the farms will be driven directly into bankruptcy rather than into the compulsory balance. That's what you have to answer! Minister! A particularly sad chapter, however, is the social indifference, the social cold that prevails in this government. I have a mandate from the Minister for Social Affairs, and you will be amazed, ladies and gentlemen. You in the communities too are concerned, Mr. Mayor Mag. Steindl! There is a decree from the Minister for Social Affairs that in the future the Bazillenscheidergesetz is no longer to be implemented as before. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] Listen to me, Mrs Mertel. But you're just laughing at it. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: I didn't laugh about it!]] – The Bacilla Excretion Act is no longer fully implemented in times when all infections, salmonellas, colibacteria and other pathogens are in progress. I quote from Mrs. Hostasch's motion for a resolution: In future, no longer subject to the Bazillen Excretion Act: Caregivers, house workers in hospitals, home helpers, food suppliers, student canteens – that might interest young people – canteens in barracks as well as people who volunteer at fire brigades. This is the problem of this government: You've had to make a fire brigade-bacillation law and packed all the other groups in the same way. But in this decree is very much in bold pressure: The implementation of the Bazillenscheidergesetz in all commercial establishments, inns and restaurants is very likely to continue. That's what I'm sure of. But first of all, this is a huge injustice to the tradesmen, and secondly, I must say that it is an unheard-of sense to negate this important control in public institutions where bacteria appear just too cumulative. I think that's really unheard of! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The reason – I inquired – is only savings measures. The costs have been charged. The Bazillen escheiderbriefs cost about 100 or 150 schillings per piece and are currently being sent to a few thousand people. That this control now fails, you have to answer, Minister. It's so unheard of! It's really bad. And this bird-strout policy that you pursue and which I accuse you – I cannot say that you do not know; [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: A bird ostrich with bazillen!]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Dr Mertel]] They simply do not want to see it – they continue to do so in the case of all non-EU-compliant taxes. You know very well that the drinking tax will fall, that Chamber 1 will fall, but you leave all Austria, including all the mayors, in doubt about it. No one knows where the money is to be paid back to those who will complain. Minister! The budget is from my point of view a single brush and also from a social point of view very worrying. We will therefore not vote in favour of the budget.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e9383	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Gusenbauer. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e9405	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It is precisely the last speech that leads to the fact that we are asking ourselves: Who is to pay any taxes in this country in the future? – Mr Gaugg goes out and says that no wage tax should be paid anymore, she is too high. The colleague Haigermoser goes out and calls again other taxes, which one should not pay. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Cold Progression, colleague!]] The colleague, Rossman, in turn, finds any other charges that should not be paid. – I have a very slow impression that the motto of the liberals in this context is: No one pays anything, and everyone gets it all. – This seems to be the message you want to announce here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This is, of course, sufficient for some polemics from your side, but not for what Mr Haigermoser himself has called for. He said: For investment, the first is a stable framework and the second is a reliable tax system. - Good. If you look at all the international investment reports, you realize that one of the main advantages of the Austrian economic location is the stable investment conditions due to the social peace that exists in that country. What Mr Haigermoser calls for for a tax reform and what is absolutely crucial is not to be done in a Ho-ruck action from today to tomorrow, but as the Minister of Finance provides: A tax reform Commission will get all proposals on the table, discuss them, take decisions by 1999 and the reform, the introduction of the new tax system, will take place from the year 2000. So not a ho-ruck-like approach, but a planned, targeted discussion, weighing all expenditure and revenue. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! This is the continuation of a successful path, which you are not willing to appreciate to this day, where it is necessary – with all the criticism that you can put in detail – to the present day. On all the contributions I have heard on the social partners in this context, I must say: One can say about the social partners what one wants – of course, the role of the social partners in the age of globalisation is changing; no! – but if we read through all the recommendations of the European Commission and the International Monetary Fund, it will be noted that all the measures it proposes will require an intensive involvement of the social partners, because only this will create the economic climate that makes it possible for government measures to be accepted and made part of economic life. That is, you cannot discuss away the importance of the social partners – including the changed importance – if you want to make a reasonable economic policy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Of course, it is a challenge for the budget to see the new circumstances on the global scale, the change in lifestyles, of employment styles and cetera. Mr Peter, in his speech, said that the budget did not respond. I believe that this accusation is somewhat unfair, because the budget does not have the function of anticipating social policy developments, but it has the function of putting what is happening into a reasonable framework which corresponds to the state of the day, and we also need the democratic consensus of the population. This is why there is a difference between a budget that is typically designed on the drawing board and a budget to be carried by the population and by the various actors. Therefore, budgets in this country are being debated for a long time, so that they can find the acceptance of those concerned and the population and represent a meaningful balance of interests. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Gaugg asked: Who are the insurers in this country? – Let’s talk about it quite openly. Of course, global change in the dynamics in which it takes place is a major challenge for each and every person concerned, with the changes in operational structures, with the changes in social dependence. And there are now two options: Either one goes here and tries to deal with these challenges creatively, rationally with those concerned – which is not easy and will not work at every hour at 100 percent – or one goes here and assumes every day that everything would be quite easy if there were only another government if there were only another policy – without even being able to show a country on a European scale that would achieve a better result in the mix of political demands than Austria. It is uncertainty policy to provide simple solutions where these simple solutions do not exist, but require a lasting challenge. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! One can also create uncertainty in money, if one says that the euro is too hard, the other time, the euro is too soft, once, we want to be there the other time, we don't want to be there, we should not disconnect from the Germans, we must never be softer than the Deutsche Bundesbank. Every week, yes, every day, there are arbitrary statements from different representatives of your party. This is uncertain, for in the end people no longer know who they should believe. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meisinger.]] Fortunately, however, people look at things very closely and have proved, at least in the previous elections, that, when it comes to the major political choices, they follow the path proposed by the Austrian Federal Government and not the path proposed by the FPÖ. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Krüger.]] – Her inflow used to be a little bigger, Mr. Krüger. In Upper Austria, the result was not as glorious as you have assumed. You've already expected a little more. You shouldn't be working on the cleaning with the election result you've achieved there. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I believe that any criticism of this budget, which, in detail, addresses individual weaknesses, is worth being discussed, because there is no perfect budget. Even the Finance Ministers and individual Members would wish for a different outcome in individual areas. But the budget is just the compromise of the different interests that exist, and the budget is not the end, or the beginning or the exclusive economic policy we are running in Austria, but the Minister of Finance has also pointed out in his budget speech what we are doing on a European scale – in employment policy and in fiscal harmonisation as essential complements of economic and monetary union. These policies will ultimately be crucial to the fact that, together with our Austrian economic policy, European economic policy will give us a result which is at least comparable to what we have achieved so far, despite the greatest difficulties in achieving the highest level of employment in this country. If you listen, you think that there are no jobs in Austria at all, because all businesses migrate. The reality is as follows: Obviously, there are very many farms that have to migrate and very many invest very much, otherwise there could be no more employees than ever before, and otherwise there could not be the highest export rate we have achieved in the history of the Austrian economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e9508	The next speaker is Mr Auer. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e9529	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Some of those who have been in this house for a long time will surely have noticed the following: For the first time in a general debate on the budget neither the clubman nor the deputy or managing clubman of the largest opposition party spoke. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Do they leave you?]] [[Abg. Rossmann: Because we have a good budget speaker!]] There's a statement for this: I have heard that Mr Klubobmann was in Harvard this year and studied budget matters there. Obviously, training was so good that he had nothing to do with this budget, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: When he speaks, it is not right, and if he does not speak, it is not right!]] I have a certain understanding of the concerns of Dr. Haider. This week he obviously has his hands full. I read that he must find a successor for the District Party Minister Meischberger. In Carinthia, he has difficulties in the reform of the references; he obviously still needs a certain amount of time for the clubman. And in Upper Austria, the election result has been very moderate. The "Oberösterreichische Nachrichten" have caused him to judge that the increase in FPÖ has been very weak due to its use. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: 400 councillors more, colleague!]] So I understand that you have minor problems. [[Abg. Dr Krüger: I understand that the ÖVP is very modest!]] Something else, ladies and gentlemen, has occurred to me today: For years, the blue comrades in this House have been telling us that only they would be the ones who speak for the farmers and make active agricultural policy. – Today, on the speaker list, there is no single peasant representative of the Freedom Party. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Aumayr.]] Today you have shown your true face! The farmers are you wurst! Today you have shown where to find your agricultural policy – nowhere, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Now that you lose "only" 3 percent, you will be overconfident!]] It's a bit strange: The general debate on the budget is the opportunity for the government to present its intentions to its objectives. And it would be the duty of the opposition to deal with these objectives and statements seriously and meaningfully. But with you, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals, there is only one keyword, and that is, "crisis". You see a crisis in the workplace in this country. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rossmann.]] You see a crisis in inflation in this country. You see a crisis in economic figures in this country. You see a crisis in the problems of farmers, a crisis in the hardness of schilling, and you see a crisis as to the future of this country. Compare the data with abroad: How does abroad evaluate Austria's budget recovery? How do international corporations – Mr. Krüger, Hoffmann-La Roche invests in Linz 2 billion schilling, because the business permit was granted there within 90 days – the situation in Austria? [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Not because of the SPÖ economic policy, but despite this policy!]] For example, how does BMW evaluate the opportunities of the Oberösterreich site when almost every diesel engine is produced by BMW in Upper Austria? Although a much lower subsidy has been granted for the establishment of this plant, this is the example. Are you also saying there is a crisis, ladies and gentlemen? How do your colleagues in the Kärntner Landtag evaluate the "budget crises" you have now prophesied in Upper Austria? – I quote: "Leadl, who, as a financial agent, has managed to make an annual deficit of 5 billion without blood and tears without tax increases into a surplus of 1.6 billion and who still has the necessary money for the three thickest pillars of a prosperous country, namely for economy, education and culture, in order to lead the people of Upper Austria into a better future..." – This is what your fellow Members Dietlinde Kreutzer said in the Kärntner Landtag. That's really what it looks like! She has said the truth, and you should also confess to this truth, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Federal Minister! Finally, a few more sentences to you. I would like to thank you for this budget, which also includes a 40 billion package for agriculture, which will also ensure the opportunities and opportunities for the environmental programme in this area. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wednesday]] However, I would ask you to consider whether it would be time to raise the pre-tax rate from 10 to 12 percent. This promise was made, and promises should be kept. All in all, this is a positive, prosperous budget for the future.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e9685	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e9707	Mr President. Federal Minister! They allow me, before I devote myself to the budget, to make a small replica in the direction of Mr Auer. ==References====External links== October has not read the right newspapers, or if he has read the right newspapers, then he has probably been wrong in the column, because wherever a minute was, "ÖVP" has been established, and where a plus was, "FPÖ" has been established. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Auer: A minus is at the FPÖ in my community!]] Mr President, I should like to thank Otherwise, I can't explain your statement. They tend to exchange the signs together with your head of state. That's a fact. You're really sorry. [[Abg. Auer: May I say a sentence?]] - No, you can't say a sentence. Now I'm talking, colleague. [[Abg. Auer: FPÖ Fischlham: minus 16 percent!]] – Yes, my colleague, everything is good and beautiful, you are the "electional winner"; we know that anyway. Congratulations, Mr Cot, on the excellent achievements! But now let's go back to the budget. Federal Minister! At the beginning something positive: I am pleased that, contrary to the previous practices of the federal grant for the promotion of housing, it is not quite modo to discuss the fact that no cuts have been considered, but an approach of 31.7 billion schilling has been made, because you have also recognized that the construction industry that is in need cannot be further damaged. This is positive, and I would like to pay tribute to that. However, Mr Federal Minister, there is no If without But. They would have the opportunity, without additional burden on the budget, to increase the share of federal housing aid by a few billion, without the deficit going up. I'll tell you why. I don't think everything has been used up here. But I will tell you how I come to this conclusion. Ladies and gentlemen! As has already been said, this budget is one on which we can really have serious doubts. A budget has been drawn up without any significant frameworks being clear. We will see what happens in the next few days, but I am very, very skeptical whether the actual figures can disprove what my colleague Trattner said today about criticism. To Mr Eder, who has dealt with housing in detail: Mr Eder! It is a little cheap to read from this pult an anti-FPÖ or anti-opposition pamphlet and to say that the opposition has no idea and woe if the opposition were to be transferred to the residential building, that would be very dangerous for Austria. [[Abg. Gradwelt: No suggestions!]] I agree, however, with him on a request, that the means of regional development should be made even more flexible. But please also send to the colleague: There is still a lot to be done wherever national councils of freedom have the responsibility for the housing sector, to the fullest extent and to the fullest satisfaction of the population, but everywhere, ladies and gentlemen from the Socialist Group, where this is not the case. [[Complaints with the liberals]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] Mr Eder said that we would have little competence in housing. I also know why Mr Eder falls into such an anti-FPÖ hysteria: He has a bad conscience! As Mr Eder has said, I have been told that the request for the sale of the three railways to the nominal value of 180 million Schilling is the subject of the sale of the three railways. He wants to give the federal share to the existing companies, all in the near area of SPÖ and SPÖ. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meisinger.]] And you, Mr Federal Minister, seem to be involved in this evil game – I must say that already. God Be Thank you for the instrument of parliamentary questions, the right of parliamentary consultation, and we will see how you will continue to address this project. Ladies and gentlemen! This is about 20 500 apartments with a traffic value of 12.2 billion schilling. In view of the fact that an appropriate provision is provided for in Section 10 of the Law on Residential Property, the Federal Minister wants to sell it just now, in 1997 or 1998 – probably 1998 – without being torched for a long time – I must say so, without any institutions being made to introduce a creative concept in which the existing tenants can be involved. Federal Minister! That's not how it's going! Nor can they argue that § 10 is the obstacle, because wherever the Federal Government has sought legal opportunities to break out of a legal enclave, it has always managed to do so in the past. I just remember the ASFINAG. When it said: not EU-compliant, there was crafted, there was suddenly creative. And you don't want to be creative all at once? [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] I tell you, Minister of State: Find a way to make an appropriate fee for the federal government, how 4 or 5 billion schilling can be used for meaningful budget expenditure, then you can also secure a few thousand jobs in the construction industry. Just as you want to do now, you will not succeed, you will never receive our consent. Ladies and gentlemen! We are willing to discuss the right, transparent budget proposals. We are your partner wherever you want to pursue an honest and open budget and employment policy. But wherever it is about continuing the bowl/climate dizziness course, you will not be able to count on our consent.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e9814	Mr Edler is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 10 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e9835	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to begin by referring briefly to what Mr Firlinger has said in his speech about railway housing companies or cooperatives. I very much regret that your party workers are now going to the public services of the ÖBB, advertise the railways for the upcoming election of personnel and promise them everything in case you have something to say. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Meisinger and Mr Mag. Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.]] This is a cooperative, with some trade unionists sitting in the board and supervisory board, as well as many from the economy, and it is about creating cheaper rents for the tenants because of the savings in administrative costs. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.]] I take note that you do not want to! We shall forward this to our colleagues. Agreed! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! But now to the 1998 budget estimate: It's really necessary to repeat this: There is nothing wrong with taking material and critical observations and findings from the opposition. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] But especially on the part of the FPÖ it remains: You want to adapt, you want to scandalize. You are talking about Scheinbudget, you are talking about Pfuschbudget without any concrete proposals, ladies and gentlemen. No concrete proposal has been submitted by you! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In conclusion, I would like to repeat once again to the Socialist Group that it is a economical, balanced, very intelligent but, of course, economical budget. I would have preferred it personally as a Social Democratic Member and as a trade unionist if it had been possible to increase transfers, especially with regard to single parents. But in the whole of the budgetary negotiations, this time it was not possible. I hope that, as a result of the consolidation in the next few years, we will be able to increase the amounts accordingly. Ladies and gentlemen! However, we see a high degree of acceptance in the discussion with the people. [[Abg. Meisinger: See Upper Austria: Minus four percent!]] The Austrians say: Yes, if it is necessary to save, then we are also willing to make our contribution! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Meisinger.]] Yes, that's tragic! But okay: Elections are parameters, and we will analyze this! However, we still want to pursue an objective policy! Ladies and gentlemen! Now on the subject of tax debts that no one has mentioned today. I do not want to attack entrepreneurs in principle, because it is only a matter of a few. But I would like to make a comment on this: It has been mentioned today in particular that wage tax revenue has increased sharply in recent years. We know that, and we also want to make a tax reform together, no question. I hope that we will soon enter into negotiations. However, it has not been mentioned in this context that we have tax debts from certain entrepreneurs of over 30 billion schilling. There was no talk of that! Furthermore, there was no mention of the black competition in entrepreneurship and the distortion of competition. It was not mentioned that there are black entrepreneurs who employ black workers. They are often poor people looking for work so that they can survive. [[Abg. Böhacker: This is not a one-way road!]] However, those entrepreneurs are to be condemned – I emphasize that! – which employs black workers and thus contribute to a distortion of competition. Ladies and gentlemen! It is essential for us that there are real opportunities for investment in employment projects after economical decisions. Similarly, as I believe, we are also called on together to take advantage of the opportunities for EU funding. In principle, I would also like to mention: Of course, the privatisations and the breakdown of the post and the ÖBB, which have been carried out in recent months and years, I would like to maintain this as a railway operator, are painful reforms. These exclusions are painful, and we have to discuss and endure them, including within the framework of the social partners: Corporate management of the ÖBB, staff representation and competent trade union. However, there is a strong willingness of colleagues to take action. That is why I would like to express my warmest thanks to those colleagues, whether railways or postal workers who have to take on real painful rationalizations due to the exclusion, once again for their willingness to carry out these reforms. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Eder today mentioned the new construction in connection with the ASFINAG. The government budget is now reduced by around 80 billion schilling. That is certainly to be said positively. However, it is critical to note that, due to the pressure of the freight forwarders, we or the responsible Federal Minister for Transport, Mr Farnleitner, have apparently not been able to implement the truck-road pricing. Ladies and gentlemen! We have taken legislative decisions in this regard, and I very much regret this because there would have been opportunities if we had made timely preparations. As a result, there is an annual loss of gross 3.8 billion schilling and net 2.4 billion schilling. We would have substantial opportunities to implement the necessary road constructions and also to pursue a corresponding employment policy. Ladies and gentlemen! With regard to road transport, we must take action. The heavy-duty charges are too low. In this area, we must establish cost-effectiveness. We know the calculations not only from the Chamber of Workers, but also from various other institutes, which has also been held internationally. I therefore hope that, in transport policy within the EU, we will finally be able to arrive at a road cost bill and a cost truth. Ladies and gentlemen! An example: As a result of the reduction in road transport taxes in recent years, the costs per truck have been reduced by 30 000 tonnes per year. Ladies and gentlemen! We constantly look at the Brenner track, the transit route. Everyone can evaluate how they want to evaluate it. – I, as a Vienna MP, who lives in the Eastern Region and has people to represent here – this is also the case with the other Members here – can say: We too are experiencing a transit-lawine, and we in the eastern region also need to take appropriate measures. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Let's look at a statistics: Since the fall of the Iron Curtain, truck heavy traffic has increased by a total of 82 percent. Ladies and gentlemen! I think there is a need for action to be taken. Summary: Ladies and gentlemen! I think I can say to the Socialist Group that we are willing to accept the 1998 budget proposal. We can also be proud from an international point of view; we only need to look at the reports that came from Germany, France or especially from Italy in the last few days, which difficulties there are there! Therefore, I may mention – it has already been said several times today –: A budget was drawn up in cooperation between the Federal Government, the Länder and the local authorities, and especially through the participation of the social partners in Austria, which I believe can be seen within Europe and within the European Union. We are one of the first countries to meet the relevant requirements. The conditions are therefore there to make a really positive, offensive employment policy, due to the positive economic development in the next few years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e9936	Mrs Steibl came to speak. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e9958	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! A discussion day on the coming Federal Finance Act is about to end. If one was trying to follow the discussion closely, one sometimes had to ask whether this is really high policy and in which country one actually lives. – I think we are very likely to live in one of the richest countries in the world, but often we are in a state of poverty. I assume that the future really begins in the head, and I believe that those who feel the future as a counterwind, as the opposition parties do in general, are going in a wrong direction! Dr. Heide Schüller, the editor of the book "Die Generationenfragen", recently said at an international symposium in Graz: "We live our prosperity clearly and irresponsibly at the expense of the young." And: "Serious policy should be a priority." I think that is a very important word. Indeed, serious policy should be a priority. We should move away from the era Kreisky, from this debt and distribution course, which was once mentioned. Because only a truly functioning public system provides security and appropriate protection. At the same time, however, there must also be a strengthening of self-responsibility. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What do I mean by strengthening self-responsibility? – Mr Feurstein has clearly put this into figures today, when he said: 99 percent of Austrians have health insurance and only 70 percent have pension insurance. I think that the percentage of those who do not have insurance also includes very many women, because women often work in a grey area or have no right to social security at all. Mrs Schaffenrath said today that the differences in income between men and women amount to up to 60 percent. – I must contradict her, although I am a representative of the interests of women with full heart! It must also be taken into account in such a comparison that many women work part-time or in another form. I admit – and that's too much! – that the wage gap is currently between 30 and 35 percent on average with equal work and quality. But I think we are wrong when we paint black and say that it is 60 per cent, because it is more than ever a cause of anxiety and concern! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Schaffenrath: But not all women work part-time!]] Actions, activities and actions must be put in place in this area in particular. There has been a desire for women, and I believe that we can achieve some of the points that have already been made x-fold by the EIA, whether by means of applications or motions for resolutions. I would just like to point out a request that it is an analysis of the different evaluations of work carried out by men or women, or an assessment of equal pay, and we would be very pleased if the opposition parties, as well as others, would agree with it! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We would also be very pleased with the improvement of the possibilities that are truly not optimal, that mothers, but also fathers, can work in their occupations during the karenz period, or subsequently re-enter. I would like to welcome it if you were to cross the border... [[Abg. Schaffenrath: We have already tabled this in an amendment, but you have rejected it!]] We have also tabled a request, and I hope you will agree to it in the Committee on Equal Opportunities. I am also thinking of our request concerning the introduction of a service check related to home service. This is not about pushing women into a certain corner, but about getting women out of the black job – more than 10,000 are affected in Austria – and enabling them to have better education and qualification. As a result, a tax deductibility would, of course, also be very desirable in this area. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: I like that too! You'll get my voice for that!]] Thank you! We look forward to the approval! You see: These are only very, very small parts of the great wealth of issues in this budget discussion, but I think we are on a good path when we work together for it!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e10040	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Nut trees. 8 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e10061	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government Party! Today's debate shows once again how easy you are to be satisfied. The Minister of Finance submits an unfinished budget, spitted with tricks, tells you that the re-indebtedness is getting lower, and you believe that! They do not ask what claim it has with these 15 billion tax credits, which are unjust, because according to the official staff, not Maastricht-compliant, are in the budget! They do not question the extent to which the negotiated positions of salaries and pensions have an impact on the budget. You are and remain a party-political voting machine, ladies and gentlemen. You did not ask a single question to the Federal Minister for Finance! They have not dealt with the budget at all – with a few exceptions – in terms of content. From you only spoke fear, but not the fear of keeping the budget figures, but fear of the constant free elections, obviously also fear of your mandate! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I would like to address three issues: Technology, export and Austria as an economic location. To the technology: Mr Edlinger! You have made a wonderful increase in your replica to the first speakers from the reduction of funds for research and development, technology and innovation funds. In order to calm down the opposition, you have made the position of freedom to your own by stating that the objective is that the funds for basic research are used in such a way that practical research can follow; and in order to achieve this, a new organization is necessary to allow competition in research and to ensure more favourable and efficient use of resources. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] These are beautiful words, but what is the reality, Mr. Minister? – The organisation for research and competition is centred, but at the same time it is inflated and made more difficult. It is to be questioned why all 15 plus 45 officials who are currently working on the agendas are needed when the offices are grouped together, when an efficiency improvement has actually been announced. In addition: Why does a Council of 15 people need to be installed as an advisory body, which, in turn, is only a third party – economics, science, social partners – which obviously serves to expand further service posts and post office chess? I justify this claim regarding postage chess: According to the concept, the Supervisory Board is ordered by the Federal Government on the proposal of the Federal Chancellor and Vice-Cancellor, which you can read, namely, ad personam of the persons appointed. And why are there actually two managing directors? – Because probably this red and black Supervisory Board will also require a red and black tension in the management! The budget allocations themselves have decreased – as have the promised technology billions with only 700 million – or stagnated. Mr Finanzminister! They promised that the proposed approach to research and competition would be implemented. However, in the budget, they refuse the necessary resources to reach at least the EU average. Secondly, export. The export offensive announced in the Government Declaration does not take place. Federal Minister! I have the impression that, as a reason, you are drawing attention to the weakness of schilling and believe that this is enough. The Minister of Finance also wants to see the export offensive in order to ensure high-tech jobs, but does not create the framework conditions for holding high-tech jobs in Austria at all. No accompanying law takes into account the development of high-tech work processes. If there's one, you need to show me because I didn't find it. In the context of concrete steps to improve the position of foreign trade, it is stated in the budget speech that there will be "further cuts in the budget deficit". – That’s wrong! For if the 15 billion previously quoted are to be used for the current budget deficit, then that is 83 billion! We have also repeatedly called on the European Union to restrict its shopping tourism abroad in order to prevent the flow of purchasing power. Thirdly, as has been said, we have put hope in the promised technology and export offensive, but it has not been realized. There was no really sufficient approach to the creation of high-tech jobs to the benefit of exports. I didn't find anything more in your budget speech, held fourteen days ago. That's what I'm at the last point: Austria as an economic location. They're cheering up an improvement. In reality, however, we are in the second most position in the EU, and in the case of competition rating we are in five years from the beginning of the 27th century. ==References====External links== Place, in the current account of the EU countries, we are increasingly negative with 113 billion deficits, in the tax rate with almost 45 percent also unabatedly rising, and income on wage, income and corporate taxes is 14. 16, 19 percent higher, but in the case of turnover tax, because consumer power has been deducted, by 1.4 percent lower. These are facts that cannot be disputed even with such beautiful words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e10148	The next speaker is Mrs Horngacher. Voluntary speaking time limit 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e10170	Mr President. Minister! High house! The task of families at all times is that spouses support each other and thus ensure the best conditions for children and the future. What children really need is father and mother, security, love and security. Unfortunately, however, we in Austria must note that we are not a very child-friendly country. For example, if you are looking for an apartment with several children, you can see that very well. Unfortunately, it is! In 1965 there were 130,000 births in Austria, and in 1996 there were only 87,900. The budget now provides for 55 billion schilling for family policy measures. That's a big piece of money! We all know that we have good transfers for the families on and on, but of course you can still improve them. That's what I'm going to address. We especially need the realization of Martin Bartenstein's model, which provides for a minimum tax-free living per family member, for the multi-child families. We have long been expecting constitutional court knowledge. We hope that these will come soon, as we wish. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The child care check would also be important so that you can afford to be there for your children. We must not become an anonymous "technological society", we must raise our children to judgment and commitment, not to criticism, dissatisfaction and denial! This budget provides for improvements in the billing of child rearing times. I very much welcome the increase in the basis for the pension, which is to be increased from 6 500 S to 8 100 S. It is also positive that people who give up their profession in order to care for a family from the age of 5 should be safeguarded socially. I also think it is an example that the country of Tyrol will provide 100 million schilling of financial resources for the families in 1998. The main focus of the package is 2 000 S per month from 18 to 24. The child's month to make it easier for parents to dedicate themselves to her child. In addition, financial grants are to be granted to the poorer multi-child families. The services provided by families must be honoured. It is not only about financial charges, but also about the image of families. That development, which we sometimes observe today that everyone only cares for himself alone, leads to lonely egoism. Unfortunately, we see many divorces today, and there is a great deal of human suffering from them. To Mr Novotny I would like to say: You said you could not understand that transfers for young mothers are not valorized. . I am very curious about what you are saying about the annual farm aid allowance for farmers. I hope you support this! There was no increase for 15 years and no valorization, and that's too long! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The SPÖ's family spokesperson, Mrs Mertel, said: We will strengthen young families, strengthen multiple families, force an independent pension claim for women. [[Abg. Aumayr: That's what I'm looking at!]] I can underline all of this and I will also use it! However, I think that if she says that the focus of family policy is on women. I think we must move the child to the center of the family too! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Member Mertel also said that she said the philosophy "Women, back to the stove!" not supported. – I don’t support them either! Our young women have a good education. They're supposed to return to the profession. But in the few years in which they are most needed by their children, they should care for the children, for these are the years that are most influential for the entire life of a human being.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e10225	The next speaker is Mr Stampler. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e10247	Mr President. Dear Federal Minister! High house! Education can and should cost something. From this point of view, the Federal Finance Act 1998 can be seen. It is gratifying that, during the period of budgetary consolidation, such a encouraging proposal can be presented. So I think it is quite positive that the increase in expenditure in Chapter 12, education and cultural affairs, between 1996 and 1998, is about 3.3%. I would also like to explain why I believe that an increase in expenditure for this position is good in times of general saving. Especially at a time when many young people are concerned about their future, fears about their work and their pensions, it is our duty and duty to create their prospects in the form of a well-founded training. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Investing in education means investing in the future of our youth. We are talking a lot about lifelong learning, which should start already in school, and we also know that today's children are the young people of tomorrow and the adults of the day after tomorrow. After the parents' home, school and teacher have the greatest responsibility for young people. Teachers are aware of their role and find in our Mrs. Federal Minister a responsible and understanding superior and partner, and above all, what is very important is a woman from practice. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If today the school is often regarded as a place of storage and the education is left to teachers, then I think we need to create a new consciousness. That is why it is necessary to invest in the education of our children. If I have read in the "Promoting" chapter that an amount is also provided for the Austrian cultural service, I am pleased. For I know from my own experience that many projects in schools can only be carried out if they are supported by the Austrian cultural service accordingly. Education and youth employment are a key theme for the EIA. For example, Mrs Gehrer wants to pay particular attention to the 14- and 15-year-olds who want to start teaching after compulsory school. Since the adoption of the educational unit by the Austrian People's Party, numerous initiatives have been launched in the school sector. Austrian school education is internationally high, and international successes can only be achieved with the best skills! I would like to point out a few significant details in the budget: Especially when we talk about lifelong learning, I think, it is our obligation to invest in adult education as well. The following measures are provided for in Chapter 12.21, adult education: Development of the second educational path, in particular development of self-student material, learning of foreign languages, building an Austrian educational information database, targeted personnel subsidies, regional education work, targeted promotion of innovative educational opportunities and support related to EU education programmes. In Chapter 12.61, I see that there is also an increase between 1996 and 1998 in the field of school psychology and education advice, which is at least about 4.7 percent. This is, I think, very good, because it is precisely in the area of integration that it is necessary for the school to obtain appropriate advice from school psychologists. Finally, I would like to point out very briefly the partial right of schools to: Why should sports equipment in the gyms or ski courses or school sports weeks not be financed by companies that are allowed to advertise in schools? The term "sponsoring" should also be given with us, I think, a corresponding weight. Finally, I would like to say that this draft budget for education in this country will open up new ways. This ensures one of our most important values and invests in the future of our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e10316	The next speech is by Mrs Tichy-Schreder. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e10337	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My contribution to the debate is almost seamlessly linked to the previous ones. Kathi Horngacher spoke about the family and the education within the family, stressing the importance of creating the framework conditions for children to grow up safe. Friend Stampler talked about education and education in schools. I would also like to deal with education, especially what is important and necessary for the future of our children. I have become aware of the debate: We have guaranteed the environment, the landscape, the nature only from our children, and we have succeeded in acting accordingly. We are now trying to act environmentally consciously, also in the economy with the resources that are provided to us by the environment and landscape. But now it is also about deciding what resources we now consume and what we leave our children for the future. Mr Finanzminister! I mean that now in the context of the budget resources that we will necessarily need to be able to secure our pensions and our children's pensions in the future! I also believe that the budget speech concerns only a part of the budget and that the accompanying laws still need to be created and that they need to be negotiated. I'm aware of this differentiation. We know that matter is very complex and that it is an undertaking that we need to give careful advice. And this is not only the government's concern, as some of the FPÖ's representatives have said, but also the parliamentarians; each group will have to deal with it. Considering this, it becomes clear that some may only be able to conclude. That means: It's a ringing around the security for the future. We want, even though the opposition has been unacknowledged in this regard, in particular – and this is what our clubman has mentioned at the outset – to ensure that all the budget data we have submitted is also strictly respected. We know how difficult this will be and how difficult it will be, but – this should also be held – the struggle to achieve the truth of the budget figures is the task of the coalition, which it also perceives. The question is often asked: Why did you not enforce this and that? – The answer is clear: We live in a democracy, and sometimes it is difficult to find a consensus. We are happy when we finally make compromises. Ladies and gentlemen! That is why it is also my concern to speak to education, because it is becoming more and more important how it will be designed in the future. We have found that economic life is changing enormously. Markets are becoming more open, and they are becoming more open not only because of the shareholder value, but because the consumer, who is often seen as king, can now make a good choice at cheap prices. These are prerequisites and meanings of a functioning market: The consumer determines the price and then the economy is directed. And in this sense there has been a rapid development in recent years. It was so rapid that sometimes the appropriate political decisions have failed to do so. In view of this, it is very important to clarify how education can and must be designed in the future in order to meet these challenges. One of our educational goals was often that young people should be brought up to criticism. – I think we should think a little bit about this: People should not only be educated to be critical, but also to judgment. Young people need to learn how to bring themselves into the work process. For the time being, there is only an English term: It is in this context spoken of the so-called self-employment. This means the way in which you bring yourself into a society, take on responsibility for yourself, and create a job for yourself according to the needs of the market. This is the challenge we have for the future! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to say to colleagues on the side of the liberals: Learn to look at things a little more differentiated, and use not only the wooden hammer like the Kasperl for the crocodile! A differentiated view is much better! Mr Nußbaumer, for example, meant that the export offensive did not take effect. He can look at the numbers! The export offensive is very good! In the last two, three years, Austria has managed to increase exports by a percentage higher than imports. And this is due to Austrian businesses, not only to entrepreneurs but also to employees. The technology offensive has already taken place, which shows, for example, the car supplier industry. And that has its reason: For if we had not been able to shape the products through the technical know-how of our employees in such a way that we were responsible for export and technology, then the foreign car industries would not have used Austrian companies! That is a good example. Mr Nußbaumer! Specific questions to the Finance Ministers will then be asked in the budget consultations in the various committees and can also be discussed in detail. Today we have a fundamental debate to hold, and I am very glad that it has been started here. I mean, in the budget consultations, we will have to deal more closely with the materials and to discuss individual laws.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e10411	Mrs Aumayr has spoken. The remaining speaking time for your group is 3 minutes. Madam Member, I give the floor to you. [[Calls and calls between the ÖVP and the liberals.]] I'm asking for peace now! Please, ladies and gentlemen, start!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e10441	Mr President. Minister! High house! Federal Minister! In budget chapter 51, cash management, you admit black on white that you are holding back around 1.3 billion schilling from EU funding. I ask you, Minister of State: Why do you sit on EU funds like a brutenne instead of at last promoting jobs and investing in the various regions? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Stummvoll: This question also applies to you!]] To the praises of the so-called ÖVP farmers' representatives: You are pleased, as you have pointed out on several occasions at the speaker's desk, with the budget you will decide in the near future. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: The FPÖ will probably vote against the increase!]] Mrs. Horngacher! They have rightly complained of discrimination against families: 30 percent of rural families live below the poverty line. Only: Who's been running the family minister for years? Who has been holding the Agriculture Ministers for years? You also know, Mrs Horngacher, that the health status of farmers is the worst of all occupational groups. Nevertheless, you in Parliament always agree with the requests of the liberals when we call for professional protection for farmers and farmers. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Auer and Mr Schwarzenberger.]] Mr Auer and Mr Schwarzenberger. You're very happy with the budget. Our farmers have to find their way out with a low average pension! What small financial resources farmers need to make up for! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] The weekly allowance for farmers has been the same for 15 years. You vote in favour of any request from the Liberals for an increase, Mr Schwarzenberger. The limit of 54 000 S for the payment of unemployment benefit for auxiliary farmers has not been increased. They praise the budget, but at the same time conceal the massive increase in social security contributions for farmers. [[Abg. Haigermoser: That's right!]] [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] At a time when the income for farmers is massively reduced, increase the social security contributions for farmers. – Congratulations, Mr Auer! Perhaps you could point out to your competent Minister Molterer that he should finally take care of the farmers instead of being a chief negotiator with the officials! Nothing's coming out anyway! Perhaps it could at least prevent farmers from being burdened.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e10541	There is no more word message. The debate is closed. According to § 69 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure, I assign the Government's proposal 841 and 841 of the Supplements to the Committee on Budgets. The agenda is exhausted. Vote on request for a deadline
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e10575	We shall now proceed to a vote. - I ask you to take the seats. We shall vote on the request to the Budget Committee for reporting on Amendment 415/A by Mr Dr. Hazelsteiner and Mr Comrades on amendments to the Court of Auditors' Act and Rules of Procedure. In December 1997, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, I call on those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this deadline request to have a corresponding sign of approval. – That's the minority. This request is rejected. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_1997-10-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00089_d7e10611	I would also like to point out that at today's sitting there were 3081/J to 3107/J. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for Friday, 10. October 1997, 10 a.m. The agenda can be found in the written communication distributed in the hall. The session will begin at a Question Time. The sitting is closed.
