ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e2117	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to welcome you and ask you to take the places. I'll open the 63. National Council meeting for an hour to come. The Official Protocol of 62. Meeting of 18 March 1990 February 1997 has remained unanswered and undisputed in the Parliamentary Directorate. For today's day of sitting as prevented, MEPs are reported Mag. Chief, Dr. Preisinger, Dkfm. Ruthofer, Sauer, Wurmitzer, Dr. Mertel, Mag. Schweitzer, Schaffenrath and Wenitsch. Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e2154	We arrive at the current hour with the theme: "When will the long-term wage tax reform come?" The first speaker to speak was Mr Magistrate. Gilbert Trattner. His speaking time is 10 minutes. I can give him the word. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e2187	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The reason for the current hour is the cold tax progression, because in a situation where there are over 300,000 unemployed people in Austria and more than 700,000 people living at the poverty line, the state is increasingly paying taxes. There has been an increase of 72 billion schilling between the last price adjustment in 1989, in which wage tax revenue amounted to 88 billion schillings, and the year 1996, which was already 160 billion schillings. Of these 72 billion schillings, only between 12 and 14 billion schillings have been compensated for inflation, and more than 50 billion schillings have been committed to the Austrian taxpayers alone in 1996. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The Minister of Finance is sparse because he has not taken into account the following years – from 1989 to 1996 – and thus the financial minister's debt to the wage-paying workers in Austria has already increased to over 100 billion schilling. And this is happening at a time when we are spending around 75 billion schilling on international organizations, at a time when we are disbursing more than 60 billion schilling subsidies for press and party promotions and the like, and the politicians are going to be able to construct a salary pyramid that will make the Chancellor more of a million schillings, but one is not prepared to finally repay the debts to Austrian citizens. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The Minister of Finance not only refuses to make the repayment of this debt at last, but he always accepts new burdens. For example, he had the general withdrawal amount, which is now only applied more for incomes up to 200 000 S – from then on, a grinding system applies. It has gone through a 50 percent reduction in the possibility of decommissioning special expenditure. Furthermore, the Minister of Finance has reduced the lump sum for the special expenditure from 1 638 S to 819 S, and he has not considered flexibilising working time, on whose back this is carried out. As is currently seen, the flexibility of working time is carried out only on the back of workers. And surely the liberals won't look at it! If, on the one hand, there is no additional payment for workers in the form of reasonable overtime rates or overtime arrangements, then, on the other hand, cold progression must finally be eliminated by providing 50 billion schilling for a wage tax reform. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I should like to remind you of what has just been spread by social democrats in enterprises in the course of the 1995 National Council election campaign: If a bourgeois, i.e. black-blue, majority were to come to power, workers would have to be available at any time in the event of pay cuts. – Now we have exactly this problem. Just what you prophesied in the case of a possible black and blue coalition at the time has now happened: They carry out the entire wage reduction on the back of the workers, but are not ready to finally eliminate the cold progression through a wage tax reform. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I am now quoting Mr Lehner of the Wifo, who says that the cold progression is carried out on the backs of the workers, who have an average income of between 15 000 S and 25 000 S. – In this area, the tax rate must be corrected! I have to ask you quite honestly – Mr President Verzellnitsch is not here in the hall – where the trade union has remained. Indeed, it was the one who has always risen to barricades and called for an inflation-adjusted tax reform, by which he wanted to eliminate the inflation-related tax increase for workers. – But you don’t hear anything about it anymore! This case is still up-to-date today. The problem concerns – because you accuse us, we don't care about the little man – not just the upper incomes. It is precisely this point that attractors of income in the order of 12 500 S per month also meet. If a person earns more by 1 000 s and falls into the next income tax progression level, he pays not 220 S per 1 000 S but 320 S wage tax. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]] The union is silent about this too! She's been silent in the last few years. It has carried a package of burdens after another – and today it is surprising that current members leave and see to it that a free trade union is founded! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But you have not only watched the cold progression, but you have also participated in the pricing process – at the railway, the post office, at the ORF, in the garbage, water and canal charges as well as in the increase of the electricity price, despite the lip confessions on the part of the Austrian People's Party! A revenue-neutral energy tax should be introduced and, as a result, additional labour costs should be reduced. But labour costs have not been reduced, but increased, and energy prices have also increased! You all failed! Ladies and gentlemen! What about the cold progression with compulsory insurance? In the field of health insurance for workers, an increase of 25 percent in the development of 1987-1997, an increase of 36 percent in unemployment insurance. And instead of finally remembering the long-term demand of the Liberal Group and of the former Minister for Social Security of Humans, namely the merger of social security institutions, you want to carry out the increase in salaries in the so-called protected areas on the back of employees and entrepreneurs. They only want to increase the percentages according to the motto: Saving in its own field is not required. We'd rather increase the contributions. Real income losses, of course, also lead to real financial problems in the population. Anyone who has built a house and had to finance it via a loan can, if there are no real income increases and the available income is getting smaller and less and no longer making repayments. He gets the first reminder from the bank, then the second, but can't pay. It's going to appeal. The interest on default runs in a range between 16 and 18 percent. This housekeeper doesn't come out of the mud cell. It comes to execution, then to auction and thus to annihilate wealth and great personal misery. Ladies and gentlemen! That is exactly what should finally be prevented by the elimination of cold progression. The debt of the Minister of Finance towards the Austrian workers should be paid back quickly. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We liberals call for a rapid wage tax reform. Such a one can be financed, that is no problem at all. A rapid wage tax reform in the range of between 40 and 50 billion can, however, be partially disputed from the pension reserves of the Austrian National Bank. – Why should it go to the post office, but not to the National Bank? It is also necessary to intervene in the whole of the subsidy jungle, to reduce press and party support and to introduce political relations, which are also understandable to the people and are based on the 60 000 S line of the Freedom Party. On the one hand, we must not torture the people with burdens and, on the other hand, have a salary pyramid constructed by which one deserves even more, the mud is getting bigger and the population loses confidence in the Federal Government or in the High House! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That is why this wage tax reform is important! It is overdue, it is a debt of the Minister of Finance to the Austrian population. At last, settle that debt! Come on. You finally follow this order! It is also within the meaning of the Trade Union Confederation, and I am anxious to see what the President of the Trade Union Confederation will say here about the cold progression or the adjustment of this cold progression.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e2320	I now turn to the Minister for Finance for an opinion on the subject. His speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e2342	Mr President. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to say that the two major wage tax reforms of 1989 and 1994 have become effective. The last major wage tax reduction is therefore only three years behind. The Structural Adjustment Act also introduced tax effective measures, which entered into force at the beginning of 1996 and partly only in 1997 and, despite some burdens, also brought reliefs for some 200 000 Austrians, especially those with the lowest levels of income. As Mr Trattner has just said, I do not believe that a wage tax reform is really a matter of urgency. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: No polemics from the government bank!]] But let me say a few words, namely: What really is the tax situation in Austria? I believe that Austria should be considered, not in isolation, but also in the context of those countries with which we are in economic contact. First of all, I would like to say that at the time of the last survey in Austria, the tax and tax rate is 42% below the average of the European Union, where it is 42.5%. [[Abg. Haigermoser: That's not true for a long time! When was the last survey?]] 1995, Wifo study 1995! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: 1987 was that!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: No polemics from the government bank!]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Who wrote you this speech?]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] In addition, in most OECD countries taxes and taxes have increased significantly over the last 25 years more than in Austria. The wage tax in Austria is today in all income groups – and I do not think we need to discuss this either, because there are facts – much less than ten years ago. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We are below the OECD and below the EU average in income and wages tax. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: 97 percent increase!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The tax burden in Austria – of course I already understand: no one likes to pay tax – is therefore by no means as high as it is often presented. On the contrary, the tax reforms of recent years – I think we can say that without exaggeration – have been an important contribution to ensuring the competitiveness of the economic location of Austria, but also the income of large parts of the population. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Why are we on the 18th? Drop back?]] – You said first that I must not polemize, so I must not comment on your call now. I assume that this will be done by Members. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: That was very elegant now!]] Austria has – and this too must be said in this context – in spite of all the problems which I do not want to put to the test; I do not want to be misunderstood – one of the lowest unemployment rates in Europe, although we are at a very exposed break in the gap of prosperity within Europe, that is, on the border between the West and the former East. Our economy – and I would like to say that in recognition of all parts of the economy – has committed this extraordinary challenge of competition as a result of the opening of the East and has successfully joined the EU. We have proved ourselves better than many others, and I think we should not constantly put our light under the Scheme. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! However, I admit that there is a need for a review of the tax system at certain intervals. This is undisputed, because without the tax reforms in 1989 and 1994, the tax and tax rate in Austria would be well above the EU average. Then, too, corporate taxation would be much higher, and Austria's economic location would not have that attractiveness, as it is. High house! If comparisons with tax reforms are made and discussed in the Federal Republic of Germany today, I would also like to point out that this is a follow-up to many of the measures we have already taken in Austria. In Austria, the top rate for employees – taking into account holiday and Christmas payments – is 43 percent, in the Federal Republic of Germany 53 percent. In Germany, there is both a commercial income tax and a commercial capital tax. In Austria, as you know, both taxes have been abolished. In Germany, corporate tax is to be reduced to 35 percent. – In Austria it is 34 percent. By comparing the wage and income tax burden of European countries according to OECD statistics today, it is seen that in Austria, as measured by GDP, it is 8.4 percent, in Germany at 10.4, in Switzerland at 11.5, in Italy at 11.9, in Belgium at 14.5, and in Denmark at 27.7 percent. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! What is our goal now? I think it should be noted that, of course, I have announced this to the public on several occasions, in a medium-term objective, we should check our tax system for all aspects and also express the objective we intend to achieve. I believe that in the past we have done quite the right thing, although perhaps due to the conditions, we have not made comprehensive adjustments. Our aim is to achieve economic and monetary union within the European Union as quickly as possible and in the first group, because economic and monetary union will make real economic growth significantly higher in the medium term than it would be in the event of non-participation. Above all, however, the recent Wifo study will clearly increase employment and thus the unemployment rate will fall to a not so strong but quite remarkable degree when it comes to participation. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The next stage of the tax reform – I am saying this so that there is no misunderstandings, in all public and in all clarity – is now to be considered, but it cannot become effective before the year 2000. However, in the next few days, I will instruct the Tax Reform Commission to start work on the preparation of the tax reform 2000 and I expect the first very concrete proposals to be made in order to be able to discuss them openly and publicly. In my opinion, the Tax Reform Commission should be able to work with care and rest. I would like our tax system to be simpler, more transparent and more just. I would like this Commission to deal with the taxation of capital and energy consumption as well as with the issue of the relief of the factor of labour. It is obvious that the European tax system should also be gradually harmonised. An important question – and I say so in all clarity – will be that of family taxation, which will at least be reformed in the light of an expected knowledge of the Constitutional Court. I would also like to say quite clearly, however, that such a reform should, in principle, maintain the proven Austrian system of aid and tax evasion, while at the same time giving relief to families. I want the weakest to be helped most. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Allow me to make some personal conclusions: I take my work as Minister of Finance very seriously. I therefore cannot and will not make any promises which are indisputable. I will not promise that everyone will get more. But I will work to ensure that what is there is also a sensible and just distribution of what we are working together. The path on which our country is located is indeed difficult and laborious at the moment. But it is the trouble of rising, at the end of which there is higher growth, more employment and lower unemployment. That's what I'm saying, and I'm going to work for that, and I promise you here too.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e2517	Mr Dolinschek. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's The additional speaking times are 5 minutes each. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e2539	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Minister for Finance has just said that the last wage tax reform was not really three years ago. That is true, but in 1993 the income of taxpayers was 139 billion schilling, and in 1994 it fell by 4.3 billion schilling. The last real tax reform took place in 1989. At that time, there was a wage tax increase of 88 billion schilling; this has grown to 160 billion schilling by 1996. This means more revenue of 72 billion schilling alone due to the wage tax revenue of the Minister of Finance. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] All this, ladies and gentlemen, was carried out on the back of the workers, the self-employed workers in Austria. By negotiating flexible working hours, without at the same time implementing a tax reform, we now have the instigation. A flexible working time only on the back of workers suffering from a wage loss means, for example, to see in my company that, if someone earns 12 500 s net, he has a net income loss of 6 000 s per year – and this, in case of such a low earnings. The most common is that of the population, those workers who earn between 12 500 S and 25 000 S net a month. These workers are being punished extremely! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I miss the fact that the Austrian Trade Union Confederation did not negotiate at the same time in the negotiations on flexible working hours that, if more mobility is required on the labour market, this flexibility is, as it were, carried out at the same time, then a right of execution becomes apparent even in the event of self-promulgation. Otherwise we will not have anyone in a few years at all who will get a discharge, because those employees who do not yet have a claim will not reach this claim in the future, because they will be terminated just before. However, this does not help the required mobility in the labour market. Ladies and gentlemen! What does this flexible working time model mean in general? I've been talking to a lot of employees. We in our company have a premium system and employees who have done many overtimes. However, they did not do so because they were so willing to work, but because they simply needed the money to build houses or to buy a new apartment. And this money is going off to the people now. Many of my colleagues now have to take income losses from 4000 S to 6 000 S per month! If a person expects this income per month, but then he doesn't get it, what's left of him? Due to flexibilized working hours, these employees are more likely to have minus hours because they have to take part-time employment by the way, so that they can earn money there, or they have to fuck up. They are being pushed into a brush, so that they can earn the money they can't earn now, unfortunately. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Koppler: That's where you made bad business agreements!]] Mr Koppler! If you would have been more committed to the employees and the entire ÖGB during the negotiations, maybe something would have been wrong. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Koppler! I no longer wonder that the ÖGB has such a member wound. As an ÖGB member, I am sorry, because if today I get brochures from the Austrian Trade Union Confederation with the call for membership advertising – to whom should I go? Who should I advertise? Who else wants to join?- Oh, my God! That's where everyone's chasing me. I am not even allowed to open my mouth on this subject again. That's the problem today in the farms! It's not that easy! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But, Mr Koppler, this is what is happening to all the workers, not just the union union, who is now experiencing a blatant member's wound. Of course, the entire system of flexible working time design also has a certain impact on the social system in Austria, which is based on solidarity. If more and more individuality is required on the labour market, we will be faced with a financing problem again in the case of pensions. The only way out would be to make a private provision, but after the two savings packages you have provided us, a life insurance is no longer tax deductible and therefore unattractive. As I mentioned earlier, the occupational precautions lie in the sleep of thorns. Although we have created the Pension Chess Act in Austria, this is unfortunately a stepchild. The finishing...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e2602	Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e2624	Mr President. I come to the conclusion immediately. – The settlement is paid into an over-company pension fund so that the pensions for employees are secured in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e2654	I call Mr Novotny. Same time of speech.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e2675	Mr President. High house! I sometimes have the impression that there must be something like a manual for demagogens. It's interesting, everywhere in the world... [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's what Lenin wrote!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Lenin and Novotny!]] You feel like you're talking to me, Mr. Cot? I can't do that. [[Abg. Mag Stadler: This is what Lenin wrote! I suppose you've read this!]] You're still on it! Demagogen follows two very simple recipes all over the world. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: The fact that the members run away from the ÖGB is not demagogy, but a fact!]] Recipe number one: Attack foreigners and other minorities! Recipe number two: Required tax reductions, regardless of the economic consequences! [[Further call of the Abg. Ing.Reichhold.]] At the weekend, obviously point one was announced in the FPÖ. And there's already interesting how theory and practice differ from one another. I see the headline in the paper today: Punishment for the grasses. The family business of the Kärntner Landeshauptmann Deputy was sentenced in 1994 for illegal employment of foreign workers. [[Live calls to the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: That's embarrassing what you're doing!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] This is a very interesting matter, and it is nevertheless the case that the Grasser company employs a number of foreigners, which is quite right, but perhaps it is not illegal to employ them. If you want to take this into consideration. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You don't have any ideas at all, but you just want to burden people!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] What appears here is a clearly split consciousness – to express politely – at the FPÖ. The explanations that we heard about flexible working hours in the past also testify to split consciousness or at least to split tongues. On the one hand, we are talking in one direction, but when we hear the FPÖ's economic representatives, we can see that they are speaking in a completely different direction. That's not how it is! This may be in line with the manual of the Demagogens, but is not a serious policy. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] What you have referred to here today is the second point, namely the question of tax reduction. I would like to say quite clearly: The idea of the FPÖ on tax policy is first of all economically unheard of and dangerous and the second is clearly unsocial. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You have no idea at all and you just want to burden people!]] I am quite prepared to justify that. First point: When it comes to ideas and proposals on tax reforms, we always have to consider how large the volume is and how we want to finance it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Haider.]] That's what we'll be talking about. I hope you will be able to listen and argue, because only by calling you in between will you not be failed, my colleague, but perhaps from listening. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call to the Freeman: Oberlehrer!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: The Socialists are for a high wage tax, for low wages and high taxes! You must, I think, be deprived of the opportunity to constantly frustrate your stupidities in the "Kronen-Zeitung"!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] The starting point is the proposal for a tax reduction of at least 35 billion to 50 billion schilling. Now is the question of how to finance these tax outages. [[Calls and calls between the liberals and the SPÖ.]] I know this is unpleasant to you, but the question is: How do you finance that? The answer is usually: The expenses are reduced. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Good thing your socialists are for high taxes and low wages! Wage cuts and tax increases, this is your policy!]] Now one has to ask: How should this happen? We do not want to reduce investment, we cannot reduce public debt expenditure, which is fixed. Next point: the question of public service. We are already in a very restrictive area. What, therefore, remains of your tax reduction proposals – and you should now listen, Mr Haider – is that you have to finance this by reducing social expenditure. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: wage cuts and tax increases!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You have suggested that yourself!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] I would like to say very clearly to you: We will not be available for this. We are not prepared to reduce social expenditure so that tax reductions are made, which will, in particular, benefit higher incomes. This is unsocial for us, and we don't go there. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] The last point concerns your particular but unfortunate love, Mr Haider, namely your love for the bank of notes. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: wage cuts and tax increases – you do!]] If you have proposed here – and this is the only concrete proposal – to finance a wage tax reduction by disbanding the bank's reserves – but not to tax financing! – then every lay player should already know that one can only dissolve deposits and a special dividend once and once pay out. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You said that yourself and suggested it!]] But obviously goes. Your horizon for economic policies does not go beyond a year! We will protect Austria from that.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e2981	The next speaker is Mr Spindelegger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e3002	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to thank Mr Edlinger for calling the family a priority today for the next tax reform. That is a very important question for us. I am pleased that we agree on this. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] When we talk about a next wage tax reform, I believe that honesty is also part of it. This honesty must have its centre of attention where it is concerned to address range of measures. I do not think that we can make great jumps and wish for everything possible because of our current debt reduction programme and not the increase in debt. We should not present a wish list today, but it is about focusing on honesty. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: When lying down, that's the speciality of the ÖVP!]] Mr Haider! Especially when we talk about honesty, I would like to make it clear in this connection: What you've done in the last two days on the subject of honesty, it's a real blow to the barrel! You, Dr. Haider, have publicly done damage to a company and have raised allegations that yesterday – I am excited about your response – had to be corrected by the entrepreneur concerned. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: I have an oath statement here! You will still wonder what I am going to read to you!]] On TV, he found that none of the seasonal employees were replaced by a foreigner. . Just the opposite of what you, Dr. Haider, claimed a day before on television. Ladies and gentlemen! Honesty in politics must be a priority, and this is especially true of you from the Freedom Party. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: I want him to do this right!]] High house! But I would now like to focus on the most important thing for our party, namely the tax relief of the family. We believe that the development of tax measures, as we are watching them at present, is essential. Why? – Families with several children today have material concerns in Austria as never before. [[Intercession with the liberals.]] It is not a question of us wanting families with several children to afford a Caribbean holiday or buy a grand limousine, but it is a question of being able to participate in our Austrian prosperity society a little more. This is an essential motivation for us to relieve the multichildren's family tax burden. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The second reason, ladies and gentlemen, is equal opportunities. We are so often talking about equal opportunities in this House. The chance for the spouse should be to decide whether to stay with the family, whether he wants to raise the children or whether he wants to work outside the family. Where is there this equal opportunities in a multi-child family? – They do not exist, for the one who has more than two children remains no freedom of choice; he must stay with the children. A spouse thus fails in the work process – and this significantly reduces family income. These are the reasons why the multichild family has to be taxed. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The third point goes into the legal position. There is a knowledge of the Constitutional Court, which states that the present tax treatment of the family under the principle which is enshrined in our constitution, namely the principle of equal treatment, is different from that of the legislator at present. – We expect further knowledge of the Constitutional Court in the near future. In other words, there is a vital need to make a new regulation here. We will shape this need with our model in such a way that we estimate a minimum tax-free living for each member of the family in tax treatment. That is, for the single earner or for the two earners, there is an amount and for each child there is one graded amount. In this way, you can get over the way from deposits to a direct reduction in the wage tax of families with several children. I believe that this is in line with the objectives we are pursuing by the EIA, so that a family can very well expect to have more income, so that a family can make it easier to achieve equal opportunities, because child rearing is also taxed, and we believe that we are also in line with the Constitutional Court's opinion and create more tax justice. This is our model, ladies and gentlemen, and we want to achieve this model. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e3118	The next speaker is Dr. Hazelsteiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e3139	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In times like this to talk about wage tax and income tax reform, of course, it is up to some degree to the square of the circle. Why? . We know that we have always had the last financial and budgetary debates here in the House under the impression of budgetary reorganisation. In addition to the vital need to reorganise this budget, regardless of Maastricht, as I have often said, the common sense of the house also requires that debt, once accumulated to this extent, should not continue to grow. I say this so that we do not come back to an EU debate. The fact is that it is a contradiction to avoid budget deficits, to reduce existing debt, but on the other hand to introduce a comprehensive and therefore effective tax reform, which can only consist in the fact that the citizens of this country pay less taxes and no longer. I admit, Minister of Finance, that it is your job to set a priority. At that time, too, when Mr Finanzminister said that he did not plan a tax reform before 1999, I said: I cannot imagine that we are able to make profound, fruitful reforms before 1999. We can't afford that, and – this little hint I allow myself, my Ladies and gentlemen of the coalition – you and your policy for the last ten years! They have made it so far that we now have no room for free. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] On the other hand, Mr Federal Minister, it is the case that many small, non-income measures do not require waiting until 1999 or 2000. We have also called for this from your predecessor, as have the simplification and clarity you have referred to. The great word, I do not even want to add to the great demands of fairer taxation, because it requires much more comprehensive and longer-term debates, but much could be achieved if we were to limit ourselves only to the easy to implement: Members of this House who work in relevant professions, such as economic fidelity, have already made dozens of proposals which have also been submitted in the form of applications. These were mostly voted down – yes I would say: almost exclusively. I can't remember anyone who'd been accepted. This would also bring a small relief for the taxpayers of this country; we would have a margin to do so. On the other hand, Mr Federal Minister – since you are now commissioning your reform commission – we are aware of the fact that we are living in a field of tension between three large circles as far as the tax is concerned. We have a modern, extremely favourable, innovative corporate tax law. We have already taken a step forward here. No one, nor an opposition politician, can pass by recognizing this. We are a big step forward in corporate taxation, especially in international comparison. Of course, on the other hand, we have a considerable distance with the wage and income taxpayers, who become painfully felt. In particular, we have a further distance to the capital income tax, i.e. to the taxation of capital income, which once again becomes effective and noticeable. It is still not fair for me to agree that a type of income is taxed by 25 percent, the others by 34 percent and a third by 43 percent – if it is corporate taxes, even by 50 percent. In this respect, we need to take an essential step forward. [[Intercession with the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to mention once again: I believe that if we do not rethink in principle and bring together a comprehensive eco-tax reform, there will also be no tariff adjustment that we can afford and which would be worth the effort. Regrettably, you, Mr. Federal Minister for Finance, have added something to your first word, which I would have agreed to in this way – simplification, greater transparency and greater justice – Mr Spindelegger, of course, has followed in this direction: family taxation. We, which we are dealing with these questions, know that family taxation, that family policy has failed in this country, otherwise it could not be that, after you have pursued this kind of family policy for 20 or more years, I come to the conclusion, Mr President, more families than ever before at the poverty line. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]] If you don't rethink, if you don't jump on new, forward-looking ideas, you'll fail again.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e3218	The next speaker is Mr Deputies Van der Bellen. He's got the floor. Same time of speech.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e3240	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! They have said that the weakest will benefit most from the next wage tax reform. If you actually enforce this goal, the greens are full on your side. The next wage tax reform must actually be in favour of lower and medium incomes. I would ask you to examine the question of social security contributions. I remember the old Lacina idea of reducing social security contributions in the lower incomes and compensating elsewhere. This idea is not only necessary – also, but not only – because of the cold progression, but above all because of the labour market effects we hope for. It is also a contribution – small but nevertheless – to poverty reduction in the lower income segments, and it is also a contribution to not reducing the distance between labour income and transfer income. I would not finance this on the OeNB-pensions, not only because this is a one-time payment, as Mr Novotny said, but because we have to deal with all the issues that concern the central bank with a more sensitive track. From the outside, this would necessarily be interpreted to mean that Austria is now drawing on the note bank and thus indirectly the note press for the financing of state expenditure. This cannot have a positive impact on capital markets, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] This was something different at the post office, although I did not support this measure either. No question! But bank stories – please don't! [[Abg. Dr. Haider: The SPÖ wants it!]] The wage tax reform is necessary, but it is not the only tax reform that stands out and outstanding. We hope to take action against tax evasion in this legislative period – not until 2000 or later. The estimates in this area vary between 20 billion and 100 billion schilling; I don't know either. But even if it's only 20 billion, it's a nuisance to the honest taxpayer. This concerns not only income tax and VAT, but also environmental taxes. I do not think that the situation in relation to the old-age recovery contribution has improved considerably. The second outstanding reform is the energy tax reform, the resource tax reform – and Monika Langthaler will say something about it – in order to reduce the total wage taxation and the burden on work in Austria in general. Thirdly, At European level, there must be measures against tax competition, particularly in the field of corporate taxes. The profits have now become mobile, and in the long run it will not be possible for us in Austria to tax only land and land and that factor which is still somewhat mobile, namely workers up to medium income categories. There is a need for an analogous approach to environmental standards at European level, otherwise the financing of the social state will be undermined in the longer term. The second unfortunate point in this context is, of course, the capital income tax, which Mr Hazelsteiner has already mentioned. With regard to the scope of these reforms, it is true that: He's not great. In its last annual report, the OECD pointed out that the Maastricht deficit in 1998 was estimated to be 3.4% of the social product. This is a good half-percentage point about what we must stick to – nolens volens – if we accept the Maastricht Treaty in a similar way. And there's already 12 billion schilling missing in the budget. But that's no reason to put your hands in the lap and do nothing at all. In conclusion, Minister of State – with all due respect –: We will not be able to take time with these tax reforms until the year 2000. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e3289	The next speaker is Mr Reichhold. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e3311	Mr President. High house! Mr Spindelegger! Regarding the public statements Dr. I would like to tell you the following about a Carinthian company: We have here the affidavit of a works council which shows that there has been massive domestic and few foreign workers in this company. [[the speaker shows a sheet of paper]] I quote: "The jobs released by the removal of domestic workers were re-occupied with foreign workers employed in the company who caused much less costs to the company than domestic workers." Mr Spindelegger! Now you can choose who is more credible: a works council of the company concerned – or the business owner who has already sold his company, but makes great statements in the ORF? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: Calculator!]] Ladies and gentlemen! A little more on the issue of "gold treasure" and the pension reserves of the National Bank. Mr Novotny is no longer here, but I would nevertheless like to say to him: Similar considerations are made even in the SPÖ. ==References== The SPÖ made public statements on this issue on February 1997. I do not understand this excitement, and I do not understand why the FPÖ or Dr. Haider is accused of being insidious. These are double games that just don't draw anymore today! Every day you are overtaken by your half-truths, yes, caught up, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I come from a federal country, which for the first time in the history of the Second Republic, for the first time after the Second World War has an unemployment of more than 10 percent. My home region is also affected. The "renewed workbenches" which were once established have disappeared into the East, jobs have been reduced, the remaining residual industry is very raw material-oriented and thus also very crisis-sensitive. The backbone is the business and agriculture sector, but the EU's people there are now forced to move to secondary jobs. Especially in our region, the expectations for the new Cabinet climate were very high. But German Chancellor climate has already disappointed people: first of all, through a misguided declaration of government, which had nothing to do with soap bubbles, and second, by a substantial speech on the subject of unemployment called by the Freemans, in which the new Chancellor was able to philosophy satellite television and telecommunications, but to offer no concrete approaches to a good employment policy, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Fuhrmann: Request! It has been called up by the President.]] Quick decisions would have been needed! It is precisely this Mr Klima that is already well known in our region. As an example, I bring a farm: Pagitz from Friesach is active in steel and facade construction, it is a well-run, traditional operation and makes 56 million Schilling sales a year. The young, dynamic business successor is constantly investing. And, of course, he also calculated the loss report. This is no longer possible due to climate. 3 million schilling additional costs for the operation do not endanger the existence of the plant, but there are no more investments there, which in turn would create valuable jobs. This young farmer wanted to set up a facade inspection body that would have been unique in Europe and, of course, would have provided an economic impetus for the whole region. Of course, he has lost confidence in politics, and he no longer has a financial margin. The next example is that of a construction worker from our region who earns 20 000 S net. He had to be reduced by 20 percent because of the two savings packages. The benefit allowance was reduced from 4000 S to 1,200 S. [[Abg. Haigermoser: And for the health certificate he has to pay 50 s!]] The separation allowance will now be circumvented. This construction worker now earns no more than 20 000 S due to the climate savings package, but only more than 16 000 S net. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Of course, people ask themselves: Where's the union union? Where's my office? Why should I choose SPÖ, the party that has now become the strongest party in our district, while the liberals have become number one? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Yes, why choose the SPÖ?]] The next hit: Flexibility of working time. Only recently, during an operation visit to the Wietersdorfer cement works of the local works council, coram publico said: Our workers will earn 2 500 s less per month. But this can also be up to 4,000 s. The workers are disappointed by the union because it has not done "opportunity" – under quotations – in the negotiations. Of course, people are scared. Many have built a house, many have bought an apartment, loans are to be paid back – and the money goes off! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! It has already been said today that you are not even able to eliminate the cold progression that inflation causes wage taxation to increase in proportion. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] You forgot about the little people, ladies and gentlemen, but I can tell you...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e3420	Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e3435	Of course, Mr President. We liberals will be very much in favour of these people, as you are obviously unable to do so by the government parties.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e3469	The next speaker is Mr Kaufmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e3490	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! There are repeated stories here, but at the end of the day they are not verifiable. I can tell you from experience that, with German Chancellor climate, we have a man who is entrusted with a very, very difficult situation in Europe to lead the country into a positive future. And we experience this again and again with great approval. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Meisinger: This is also a layerer!]] Back to the real topic. It is clear that, from time to time, an adjustment of the tax rate must be made. However, it is also clear that at a time when we have agreed on a consolidation package and in which this consolidation objective is also achieved and accepted, it is quite absurd to demand a reduction in tax rates. This reduction must take place in the longer term, but of course not in the period of fiscal consolidation. It must also be clear that, due to the low inflation rate and the unfortunately low wage and salary growth, the rise in cold progression is relatively slow and is therefore also possible for a longer period of time for appropriate tax and tariff adjustment. It is true that wage tax currently has a significant share of total tax revenue. In 1997, we will have wage tax revenues of more than 180 billion schilling; the share of wage tax in total tax revenue is constantly increasing. Above all, growth rates will always be higher than wage increases, which we do not really want. In the case of wage tax, the rate of increase in 1995/96 was 8 per cent, and in 1996/97 it will be 13 per cent. It must be clear, therefore, that the next tax reform requires the payers to be one of the winners of the tax reform. Ladies and gentlemen! There are also significant increases in corporate taxes, particularly in corporate taxes. In this case, however, account should be taken of the fact that there are some one-off effects in 1996 and 1997 that, in particular in 1992/93, some corporate taxes, such as commercial taxes, property tax and cetera, have been abolished. The fact is that wage tax increases more than wages, corporate taxes rise less strongly than profits. Therefore, once again: The winners of the next tax reform must be the payers of wages, the employees of that country must be. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr. Minister! Another word for the minimum kiss. The savings package decided by Parliament was therefore accepted because it was relatively balanced. On the business side, however, a part is now missing, namely this minimum corporation tax. It is therefore absolutely necessary that a compensation be found for this, a compensation which comes back from corporate taxes, but not one which must be imposed by the general public, in particular by the payers of wages, since otherwise this once agreed balance cannot be achieved. Another point: The design of wage tax is, of course, much lower than that of other types of taxation. There must therefore be a compensation. This compensation is the benefit for the 13th and 14th years. Monthly reference. In the next tax reform, it must be kept absolutely in place – you have already said this to the public, Mr. Minister – that the favour of the 13th and 14ths must be given. It remains that there is no change in this favour on a monthly basis. Before making this compensation, it is necessary to create a balance between wage and corporate tax. Only when this has been done can you talk about the point you mean. [[Abg. Wabl: But this is what favors the serving men!]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Last Point...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e3550	Not only the last point, but the final sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e3565	My conclusion is: For weak income recipients, the state's social benefits are more important than small benefits in the tax system, and therefore there can be a tax reform only if the entire social level of the state – that is our stated objective – remains in fact.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e3596	Mrs Frieser. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European Same time of speech.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e3617	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Dr. Haider, when I think about the implementation of your tax plans, I have to say: That would be a dangerous threat to talk to Karl Kraus. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You are an architect of the works contracts, Mrs. Colleague, and have directed yourself!]] If the tax plans that you present in your key application are the results of your summer courses in Boston and Georgetown, I recommend that you return your study fees. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Mr. Maderthaner will be happy! He congratulated me on the proposals.]] Every national economist would qualify you with a not enough qualification and ask you to present a new job. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: The lady wants to see an intelligence test!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: After the Alkotest intelligence test!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I shudder when I think of the populist and all too simple "tauber formulas" of the "F", starting with the new facet of the "ordinary employment policy" of Mr. Grasser – dumping rumpser from Carinthia! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: We shudder at the inaction of the government!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's how you look when you're making an intelligence test!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Have you decided on the work contracts? Was that intelligent?]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] They are the answer to us whether the punishment of illegal foreign employment has remained due to us. None of you have found it worth the effort to comment on this. This is how it goes – up to these tight tax proposals. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I shudder for a simple reason [[Abg. Haigermoser: Please dress in simple words! Bring it as simple as possible, so that we stupid people can understand it too! Have pity on us!]] These tax proposals will not work, and if they are implemented, they will then become a horrendous awakening. This is not only my opinion, Dr. Haider, but also national economists, tax experts and currency experts have shot your proposals – in order to say it salopp – through sun, moon and stars. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Have you decided on the work contracts?]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Was the corporate tax intelligent?]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You don't know what you're talking about!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] They warn against heating inflation, they warn of the loss of triple A...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e3842	I call Mrs Frieser.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e3857	Mr. Haigermoser! It wouldn't hurt you to take something reasonable once. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This goes all the way to the uncovered budget holes. [[Abg. May. Stadler: If you give us a lesson!]] I'm trying to do that, Mr. Stadler, so that you too can understand. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Unfortunately, we are not as intelligent as you are! Have pity on us!]] Yes, this is the problem I consider to be a real problem. But you're giving me a chance now, Mr. Stadler! Their tax proposals cost the budget 210 billion schilling. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: millions!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: What is true now: 200 million or 200 billion?]] You're not worth it in any line of effort to explain how you want to stop these budget holes. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: It looks like you don't know what this is talking about!]] I want to come to reality now. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: What is true now: 200 million or 200 billion?]] 210 billion! Back to reality! The Minister has already mentioned the state quota in Austria. Austria is in the middle field with 42 percent. In front of us are Sweden, Finland, Denmark, Belgium and Germany. In addition to Ireland and the United Kingdom, we have Portugal, Italy and Spain. In view of this, I ask the rulings of the "F": Do you want us to have economic and social conditions in Austria as in Spain – like where this cruel "syldlaus" comes from? Is that your concern? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Your policy will soon be ready!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We from the government parties have done a lot of work in recent years through tax reforms. We have brought about a reduction in income tax, we have reduced the price, we have abolished commercial taxation, we have abolished property tax, and I am glad that you, Mr Haselsteiner, have mentioned this praiseably. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Minimum Kiss!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: After bravo!]] They also mentioned that there is injustice in taxation. The capital income is taxed at 25 percent, non-individual incomes up to 50 percent are taxed on tax rates. They demand justice, but have remained guilty of answering the question: Do you want to increase the KEST rate and thus the final taxation? [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: In the European equinox, Mrs. Colleague!]] I would like to say that you are reluctant to make concrete proposals. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: I make proposals that can be implemented – unlike you!]] [[Prolonged calls to the liberals.]] Leave Finally, you bring me to the tax proposals of the "F" a quote, a quote from a man who knows your thinking, ladies and gentlemen, as hardly anyone else knows because he has many years [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Final rate!]] Your cross-thinker and your thinker were.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e4066	Ladies and gentlemen, please take note of the speaking time!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e4081	Only this quote from Mr. Mölzer, who says: "Who to the collection of all..."
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e4111	No, ladies and gentlemen, the speaking time is over! I have to treat everyone the same way. The next speaker is Mr Helmut Peter.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e4136	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen! Professor Novotny gave us a lesson on demagogy: He pulled the Freedom Party of Demagogy – and was himself demagogue. I am not of the opinion of Mr Grasser's Deputy Head of State regarding his proposals on employment policy. But, ladies and gentlemen of the House, I think it unbearable to involve the operation of his family, in which Mr Grasser is not involved and which is led by his parents in the discussion here. If there has been illegal employment in this family business, I regret it. However, I consider it unbearable in the sense of a non-existent fidelity liability as well as as as entrepreneurship representatives and economic politicians to bring the companies of relatives and acquaintances of politicians into the discussion here – and it is equally unbearable to reverse the actions of politicians to companies. I ask Professor Novotny not to do this again in the future, because that is white demagogy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum as well as on the Freedom.]] It is certainly also demagogy – in which I give Novotny right –, shortly before elections – and there are always elections – to demand wage tax reductions again. Everyone knows that these are not possible here and today. The National Bank Reserves to 34. Using time limits sometime to ridiculousness. How often do you want to use the national bank reserves? [[the speaker looks towards the liberals]] Finally, you don't even believe this again in the last beer tent. This is a kind of policy that the House is not worthy of. Time and again we have to listen to the careless proposal: Use of National Bank pension reserves! This is the fifth use I hear. This stupid thing has not happened to me. It's unbearable. What do you think we're in here for? [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] But it is also clear, Minister of Finance, that you are deliberately quoting figures of which you know very well – in which Mrs Frieser followed you – that they are not voting. If you say today that the tax and tax rate in Austria is 42 per cent, please say that this is the value of the year 1995! Sage It also calls for the tax and tax ratio to probably be between 43.5 and 44 percent under the Structural Adjustment Act in 1997! If you quote, please quote with year, then quote correctly! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is also clear that by the year 2000, the year in which the Minister of Finance wants to make a reform, wage tax will rise to 200 billion schilling, if not far above. It increases exponentially because of the much too strong progression. Mr Finanzminister, why do you call what your predecessors did in 1989 and 1994 a reform? – That was not a reform! It was a progression reduction. Why don't you really do a reform? Why not note that a larger and larger part of the Austrians not only have a self-employed income but also acquire other incomes: in the self-employed, in the employment contract, in the rental and lease sector, in the field of agricultural incomes; there are still small but growing parts. Why don't you have the courage to make a real reform? Why don't you have the courage to say: We are moving towards the self-esteem of the powerful citizen, who, in all seven types of income, once a year reveals to the state its income, from whatever part it is composed of. Why not define new tax bases and do not attack the variety of exceptions that exist today, the amount of deposits that make it impossible for the individual to make a tax declaration? Today, the tax system you manage has become so complicated that Mr and Mrs Österreicher are no longer able to make tax returns themselves, but they need the help of tax advisors – and they themselves sometimes do not know themselves. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's not true!]] If you really want a reform, then enter into a discussion as it is taking place in Germany today. There it is said: Let us – in Germany they have not yet reached self-esteem, but hopefully they will come there – collect all incomes, dramatically reduce the exceptions and on this basis reduce the tax rates! We have a much too early deployment and too high progression, especially with small and lower incomes. It is unbearable to start today with an income tax rate of 22 percent. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Mr Finanzminister! If you – thank God – talk about harmonizing taxes in Europe, please also have the courage to do so, 13th and 14th. In the first place, the tax of 13th and 14th with the sixth benefit is unsocial, because it strongly prefers the highly-earned unself-employed, and secondly a unique in Europe. They have talked about the Europeanisation of tax policy. – Make You are a Europeanisation, and you are referring to an overall reform, which is really a reform, including the 13th and 14ths. Monthly salary!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e4203	I call Mrs Langthaler.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e4225	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Let me begin by saying a few words on the statements made by my predecessor on demagogy in this debate. Mr Peter! I am very opposed to a demagogic and inaccurate dispute, but: One can only deal with proposals when they come from a party that adheres to a certain basic consensus of democracy, a basic consensus, which is that one does not always put private people in the foreground, pioneers people, and argues at the bottom level. That is exactly what the Freedom Party, especially Mr Haider, is doing when it opens its mouth, especially on the issue of foreign policy. In tax reform too, half is wrong, it is pure demagogy, and it is difficult to deal exclusively with these arguments. The same is true of this tax debate: All these proposals, which come here, cannot be taken seriously. They are based solely on the populist motive: We're taking the taxes down! At the same time, however, we want to improve everything from an eco-tax to the social framework. The Greens have two priorities when it comes to tax reform and changes in applicable tax law. We have strongly criticised tax reforms in 1988/89 and 1993/94 because the lower and medium income levels have hardly benefited from them. This has been confirmed by Wifo and IHS over and over again. The top tenth of the income earners had an income increase of around 10 percent in the last tax reform; the lower tenth could not even make up for 1 percent. For us, the next tax reform will focus on two points: Firstly, lower and medium income levels must benefit from this, and secondly, tax law must be organicated. This must not be marginal, but must be at the heart of it. The focus of a tax reform must be ecologisation, the basic principle must apply: away from the high taxation of labour, to the taxation of resources! I would like to stress, again, that it is not a question of increasing the tax rate in this area as a whole, but rather of doing a reform in a largely non-profitable way. That this is easier said than done, I know for myself from painful experience. We are currently trying to design a green tax model based on a resource tax in the field of energy, which differs greatly from our previous model insofar as we had provided for around 20 billion schilling taxation in our first proposal, of which two-thirds of which were non-compulsory, whereas we are now trying to reduce a volume of 80 billion schilling to 100 percent neutral, subject to a reduction of various additional wage costs and a taxation of the energy factor. How difficult this is, Minister of Finance, we see ourselves in the process of throughput and throughput. In practice, this is not a simple undertaking. But what we strongly demand from you is that this should happen during this legislative period and that opposition parties should also be involved in such debates and discussions. There is a lot of preparatory work and know-how on the part of the Green Group – contrary to the view of several previous speakers that there are no proposals on the part of the opposition. We have published all our proposals, most of you know them. In the field of ecologisation alone and the investment programmes for environmental measures, we have published five brochures with very detailed proposals, which certainly do not agree in many areas here, but I think it would be interesting for large government parties to include our proposals. This is not only about the taxation of energy, but also about the taxation of landscape consumption and the taxation of waste, which has often been discussed here. Mr Finanzminister! I don't know if you've been looking at this area. We have an old-age recovery law, in which for four years some 800 million schillings of taxes – more or less – have been withdrawn annually. There, it has still not been possible to clean up a major deficit in execution. There is the possibility of a waste water discharge with many different facets that have already been introduced in other countries. We should learn from their experiences. Finally, Minister of Finance, it is no longer just the greens who are demanding the rapid taxation of resources. They can be found in the Financial Times of the 14th century. Read February that this is what all the leading economists in the world demand. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] In America alone, there are currently 2 000 economists, six of whom are Nobel Prize winners. It is more than green phantasy and must become reality, Minister of Finance...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e4273	Talk time!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e4288	... in this legislative period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e4319	I don't have any further words. This concludes the current hour. I thank the Minister for Finance. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e4340	I refer to the written communication distributed at the meeting room with regard to the negotiating items and their allocation. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e4541	Furthermore, the following template has been received, in addition to what has been announced in writing: United Nations Convention on the control of desertification in the countries seriously affected by drought and/or desertification, in particular Africa, and Declaration (565 of the Supplements). After consultation with the members of the Presidential Conference, I propose, in accordance with Article 28a of the Rules of Procedure, to refrain from assigning this item to a committee and to place it on the agenda of one of the next meetings. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. Then we'll do that. Request for a brief debate on the response to the question 1657/AB
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e4572	Before entering the agenda, I would like to say that, in accordance with Rule 92 of the Rules of Procedure, there is a desire to hold a brief debate on the reply 1657/AB to Question 1641/J by Mr Rosenstingl on problems with the Mautvignette - this concerns the Minister of Economic Affairs. The short debate takes place in accordance with § 57a para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure at 3 p.m. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e4593	I have the proposal to summarise the debate on points 4 to 7 of today's agenda. On the other hand, are there any objections? - That's not the case. Then we'll handle it that way. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e4617	We are now going into the agenda. The President-in-Office of the Council agreed on the duration of the debates on today's agenda as follows: A block speaking time of 9 "Vienna hours" has been agreed, resulting in the following speaking times: SPÖ 135 minutes, ÖVP 126 minutes, Freedom 117 minutes, Liberal Forum and Greens per 81 minutes. The Hoge Haus has to be found over it. Is there any objections to this proposal? - That's not the case. That's what it's decided to do. 1. Point Report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on popular desire (172 of the Supplements): Federal Constitutional Act on the Protection of the Neutrality of Austria and on Request 110/A (E) of Deputies Hans Helmut Moserund Comrades concerning the accession of Austria to the Western European Union (WEU) (592 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e4656	We'll get to the 1st. Agenda item. I do not have a wish for oral reporting. We are therefore going into the debate immediately. Mr Dr. Haider spoke on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e4686	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. State Secretary! Today's negotiating object has been triggered by a popular desire to deal with the issue of neutrality and its importance for Austrian security development, and gives us the opportunity to question the question of whether there is at all a security policy in this Federal Government. Because you already have a little feeling that slalom runners are on their way here: They want, but they can't, and the others don't want to, but they often do something that sounds treacherous. If the SPÖ opposes a change in neutrality, but at the same time, Dr. Cap announces that NATO is actually the right alternative now, and then it will be rebuffed – in the opposite case of the ÖVP – then the question has to be asked: What line does this have within this government? This is just as you have done in many other things, as you have already done with regard to EU accession, where you have also tried to say something to people with wrong arguments: 43 000 new jobs will come. – In reality, we have the highest unemployment since the fifties! The same is true of the euro. In so-called small conversations it is said: Afraid that's causing us great turbulence! – Officially, propaganda is being made with millions of effort for the rapid introduction of a European single currency and for the task of schilling. But on this issue, which is that Austria should make its own advertising statement in the EU's vote - lonely or in common - that is to say, to make a common security policy, you are to a great extent sparse. It cannot be enough that a poor resolution is now being adopted again by the government parties in which there is: It will examine everything by 1998 – including the accession to the Western European Union. You know exactly what you're saying: The Foreign Minister of Europe has told you quite clearly: There is no WEU entry without a NATO entry! Therefore, you will finally have to be comfortable to say specifics. Stay alone, you could have joined the EU. If you want a common security policy, you will also have to say yes to NATO. That's the reality! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I understand, of course, that, especially with the Social Democrats, there is often the thought that NATO is, so to speak, a military monstrum which does not correspond to its ideas. – Well, that is no longer the case in a changing security structure concept. NATO is becoming more and more a real security alliance and is not, so to speak, more of the military pact than it is repeatedly conjured. [[Abg. Wabl: They shoot there with kneaders!]] This also shows on its own the treatment of the new members, for example, that the members no longer have to put nuclear weapons on their own territory. Of course, it is also right that it would be more sensible to have a security architecture that, as it were, will remove military borders through a network of cooperation. All of this is all right. But until then we will have to take many steps. In the framework of the NATO strategy in the context of the enlargement of the East, it might also have been quite reasonable to go here and make a generous offer, above all in Russia, for a cooperation agreement. This would, of course, eliminate many problems and many blockades, because Russia is right to feel pressured by an expanding NATO community, in which it should not be involved in and for itself; a little bit of it may speak. It is felt that Russia should, as it were, be pushed into the Asian area. That can't happen. If we make European policy, if we make European security policy, this is not possible without Russia's involvement. Therefore, the return to NATO enlargement would certainly have been a reasonable offer for a comprehensive cooperation agreement in the field of technology, infrastructure, scientific cooperation, which we should have supported in a sustainable way. But back to the subject that must be of interest to us here in Austria. I believe that we have many good reasons to decide as quickly as possible to join a new European security alliance, which has the basis in today's NATO organization. We liberals are obviously the only ones who represent this so unmistakable and also closed, while the others still have something to see. - Why? First: One essential reason is that enlargement of the East makes no sense at all in economic terms. Europe as an idea was a peace idea and not an economic idea. It is economically underfed, but if you take this idea of peace seriously, you first have to create the security conditions so that it makes economic sense. Therefore, it might not be wrong to say that, from the point of view of Austria, the economic enlargement of the East can also be compensated for the risk of job threats, in view of the risk of competition from cheap products that would flood our market with which we could not keep up with, and which would bring us once more by 100 000 to 120 000 unemployed in Austria, by an offensive strategy in the development of security policy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Let us take the countries concerned in a security policy and try to get them to understand that we cannot advance economic enlargements at the same pace! Then we are much better off serving the idea of a common Europe, which is being conspired there again and again. Secondly, I believe that we must be clear that a NATO cooperation in Austria is likely to be much cheaper than meeting the need to bring our army to a standard that guarantees defence. Then: becoming an illusion They do not have: that Austria is truly capable of defending itself with the current constitution of its federal army. It's not given. We have experienced a military reform after another, but they have consisted in the fact that Minister Fassleven has locked up some regiments, sent people home and re-appointed a few brigades. Therefore, in the Austrian army organization we have more brigades and generals than the American army. And if we stay alone, you also have to say what you do for the federal army. – They do nothing for the German army and therefore endanger the security of Austria quite sustainable! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Third point: I think it is now time, after seven years of discussion, to make a decision. I said for the first time in 1990: Austria will have to give up its neutrality and go to a European security alliance based on NATO. At that time there was one-bright criticism of the socialists, one-bright criticism of the ÖVP, which said comments in the newspapers: This is spiritual treason, which is treason at the sanctuary of neutrality. Today you all think differently because you will ultimately not avoid making this decision in such a way that the determination of the liberals of 1990 is correct. It is your problem that the intellectual and intellectual sicker process takes so long until you realize where the right security policy orientations lie. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I say something to you, just because the Secretary of State is here today: It organises the Presidency of Austria in the EU, which will take place in the second half of 1998. Austria will then be holding the EU Presidency, but will not know what it wants to do with security policy, and will completely violate the intentions of European security policy as a whole. The Secretary of State organizes large conferences, the Austrian taxpayers are allowed to put 300 to 350 million schilling on the table for these major conferences, for this conference tourism, but there will basically be no reasonable change for Austria, because it is still not clear what one really wants to do. Perhaps it will be clear once again that, before we take over this presidency, we should come to terms with ourselves once and for all what we want. In other words, it is our liberals, but the government should make it clear whether it bears a security responsibility for Austria. If she has to carry it, then she has a clear decision to make, namely that we should belong to where Austria is most secure, and that is in a joint alliance with the other European countries! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This has also shown us the war in the Balkans. It's easy to rub the nose over NATO, but that's nothing but a cheaper anti-American reflex that a few remaining eighty-eighters still have today. In fact, we must be grateful that this NATO has existed, because who else could have done something more than afforded such an efficient amount that security and peace can be produced there, though fragile? To date, Europeans are still not aware of whether to support the Serbs or the Croatians or whether there should be alliances. We know that in the meantime. There are also border workers like Mr Klubobmann Khol, who has been excited about the fact that an Austrian poet, Mr Handke, defended the Serbs with their ethnic cleansings, but then went to the presentation by Mr Handke in Parliament and congratulated him in front of the camera that he had made in progress for the great remarks he had made. This kind of political trail, which runs through Austria, must finally be stopped! The Austrians have a right to know where this country is going for a long time in security policy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that many have already told you how the future security architecture really looks. The head of the Institute for Higher Studies, Professor Felder, also said: A country's willingness to defend is an important location criterion for the economy. In the longer term, the disadvantages are to be feared if Austria does not join NATO or undertake its own defence efforts. - That's it! And you don't know what you're doing. As with Nestroy: "Who is stronger – i or i?" So that's why the tug is going to go. In reality, ladies and gentlemen, this is an important thing! Why? - Because we don't have time to lose. Do you not think that the Slovenians are not only making massive efforts to get into the EU, but are also completely open to NATO accession? Do you know what that means? – If we sleep this, then Austria will no longer be the country bridge to Hungary, but Slovenia. Slovenia will then fulfil this function. Then all the infrastructure decisions will also pass European security policy, starting with roads, telecommunications, airports, equipment and signal systems in Austria. They must then explain to the Austrians that, in a few years' time, we must have seen that, when we had political and economic advantages as well as jobs and investment were associated with them, we left business to the Slovenians and lost our important role in the context of European security policy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] So get away with this stupid anti-American complex about NATO! NATO is an important institution for us. If we had not had this policy – for example, the NATO dual arms decision – the Soviet Union would never be united. You should also take note of this! Because today we are more freer in Europe, we owe it to a strategy that has tried to stop the eighties with demonstrations and violence. Today they are the great apostles of peace who wander through the world and do not know how they are doing. We also need to be able to make a concrete decision when it comes to positioning our own country as best we can. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! I really do not like the fact that Russia, Ukraine, Moldova, Romania and, like the eastern countries, all of us today are already called having an association status with NATO, that is to say, can speak with us and we are the last to be there, please! We, which we represent a land bridge for NATO in a new area, are the last ones at all these events, because you are not able to define the position of Austria in such a way that we can talk there before we are decided on! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That's what I'm going to blame you! We liberals told you seven years ago where it is going. Perhaps you can get through once and take a clear position. However, it will be necessary to be honest with the citizen as well. The truth is reasonable to the citizen! The truth can be said to him, Mrs. State Secretary! There are two opinions that must not be expressed, as is the case with the EIA on the Internet. I quote the Internet of the ÖVP, where neutrality is: The Austrian neutrality has been a fixed component of the post-war order for Europe since 1955. - Okay! Then there's inside. With the end of the Cold War, however, it lost its previous security policy function for Austria. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Where's that?]] – On the ÖVP Internet. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Interesting!]] Two paragraphs further – after the sentence that it has lost its function – say: In any case, Austria is to maintain neutrality in order to ensure the security of its citizens and the inviolability of the state territory and democracy. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: They have written this off the SPÖ!]] Now I'm really wondering: What's going on? – The first paragraph shall be replaced by the following: Function obsolete, lost!, or last paragraph: stick to what is no longer worth!Unknown term type: "%s".? So that's ÖVP policy. This is the policy of the ÖVP, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The question now arises: How seriously can one take such a policy that wants to explain everything and everyone to the people? They constantly criticise liberal proposals, although you should actually go into a clause and think about what you are doing to this country if you do not decide on a security policy. They're depressing the Minister of Defense, disassembling our army, depressing our army. They make the Foreign Minister and do not come to a clear security policy decision. They explain everything and everyone! Ladies and gentlemen! How far does it have to come? – Today, even one of your political commentators, Mr. Koller, writes in the "Salzburger Nachrichten" under the title "Austria's security policy reaps general laughter": Austrian security policy is being abandoned to ridiculousness. Mr. Vice-Chanceller Schüssel appears in Bonn, on the side of the powerful Helmut Kohl, he speaks in front of a selected circle of diplomats, politicians and military observers, hiding there to the sentence that Austria has always interpreted its neutrality very dynamically and will do so in the future. General laughter! General laughter for Austrian foreign policy, because everyone knows that this theatre is basically intended to serve only to smite the Austrian population nebula grenades so that it does not see where it really goes. The journey has long gone towards NATO! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You've set the course there. The trip has been there for a long time. Have the courage to say that in good time! Arrange the skills! Decide in the government! Then, in 1998, if we have the Presidency in the EU, you will be credible. But we will do a good job in this country in particular if we are in a security alliance together and are not alone in the vantage point of new threats!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e4844	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Mock. I'd like to set the clock to 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e4865	High house! I would have liked to deal with Mr Haider's comments, as I always do, because I believe that we should address the arguments of the other, but he too fought consistently and without slalom seven years ago for accession to the EU. And before we had the results of the negotiations, you were against it. Now I think I should save you time and save us time... [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You were even on our party day after the results!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: But we are now a member of the EU!]] Yes, but you've been against it for a long time! You only treated me fairly, I said. Now I want to save you time, save me time. Maybe something else will come out of you in five years regarding NATO, you're never quite sure. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! For me, if we are discussing neutrality today, the security of our country is in the foreground. The security of the country and its citizens is the primary objective of foreign policy and defence policy. It can only be discussed which instruments give us more security. That is, neutrality has only instrumental character, it is not a goal in itself. Neutrality gave us in 1955 – and we should never forget that – the chance to become an independent, undivided country again, a free democracy of Western influence. Neutrality was never self-evident, it was never the goal in itself. The highest command of foreign policy and defence was to give security to the country. Ladies and gentlemen! One can be mistaken in the financial sector, in the economic sector, in ecology, one can often only correct serious mistakes. In a However, it is very dangerous to be wrong, namely in the field of security policy. Once you get wrong, you may not be able to correct it anymore, because you no longer exist. Security policy issues have existential character. [[Abg. Wabl: The ecological error can be even worse!]] – I believe there can be no greater danger than if there is danger to the country and its existence. As a result of this danger, security policy is becoming more important. In the question: Are we stronger alone in protecting our country, or are we stronger in association with others?, should we learn a little from the past. Who has us on 11, 12. March 1938 helped when we were annexed by the National Socialist Grand German country or were occupied? – Within a few days, all messages in Vienna were converted into Consulate. The annexion and the occupation de facto were thus recognized. At least a time of grace – as far as one can speak of "prosperity" in this context – one should have practised. Mexico, as the only country, sent at least a protest telegram to the League of Nations, in which we were also members. That's all. Ladies and gentlemen! Let's learn from the past! A few months later, not only did one take note of Hitler's occupation of part of Czechoslovakia, but he also agreed with prominent references. A revision would also be appropriate in this respect. - Why? Ladies and gentlemen! It is not a question of making a simple judgment on the past, but of pleading for us to learn from the past. These things must be dealt with with with with with with with with the greatest sobriety and realism. I am therefore also surprised that almost anyone who has an opinion on NATO and Russia's relationship is concerned about Russia's security needs. Each state can fix its security theory. Who is at risk of Russia both now and in a manageable future? – Usually, there is a need for security in the middle and smaller countries. It is therefore understandable for Poland and the Baltic countries to do everything they can to implement the accession to NATO. Russia is the greatest danger to itself in the huge difficulties of the changeover. And there is also the greatest danger to the surrounding neighbouring countries of Russia. I have always been very consistent – and this also applies to the future – for massive political and economic assistance for Russia on its path of conversion to democracy and to market-economy structures; even for the risk of finding too late that this aid did not ultimately lead to stability in a manageable period of time. Russia is too large and too important in order not to be supported on this path of political and social stability reforms. However, history also makes no mention of the fact that not the Baltic countries or Poland occupied Russia but, in a sad common sense, the national socialist Great German country and the Communist Soviet Union in the Ribbentrop Molotov Pact divided the Baltic countries first into spheres of influence and then occupied them – one from the East, the other from the West. Hundreds of thousands of citizens of these states were sent to Siberia in the Gulag Archipelago. Even today, we do not know where two heads of state of the Baltic countries disappeared and died after their sending to Siberia. That is to say, first of all, these countries are rightfully looking at their own security needs and then at that of the others. One also gets a slightly bad taste when one remembers that both in the occupation of Hungary in 1956, in the Hungarian struggle for freedom, as well as in the occupation of Prague, in the spring of Prague, the security need of the Soviet Union was presented as an argument for entry. What political or military alliances join Poland or other countries is only to be decided by Poland, by the citizens of these states and by no one else. We should be very clear about this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A language is needed again, as if it were natural to consider countries other than satellites. We are talking about "near abroad" in order to influence the foreign policy of these countries. In particular, Austria has a keen interest in fully respecting the sovereignty of our country and every country of our size. I am therefore very glad that Foreign Minister Schüssel said in his safety policy statement in Bonn: "No one has the right to hinder or block countries that want to join these organisations, namely EU, Western European Union, NATO." – A quiet but solid language is appropriate here and must also be repeated. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] From the same point of view, I welcome every effort made by NATO, through talks with Russia, to the current European security system, which will develop in the European Union, Western European Union, NATO, in order to extend a pan-European component and integrate Russia. For the same reasons, I welcome NATO's willingness, especially Russia and other countries, to inform Ukraine, for example, of its intentions, as has recently been practised by Secretary-General Solana and other members of NATO, especially the American Foreign Minister. I would therefore sum up the political attitude towards Russia as follows: No country has the right to impose its security concept on another sovereign state or to exercise a veto against accession to such organisations. Russia’s reforms – both economic and political – must be consistently supported towards democracy and the economic order of the market. Russia is to be fully informed about the development of NATO to NATO. Russia is also to be integrated into a pan-European approach to security policy with the weight of its size. In this regard, we should have a line that has drawn lessons from the past, which is very important for the future stability of Europe. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Let us remember how often the political concept of neutrality has helped. Neither Norway nor Denmark nor the Netherlands nor Luxembourg were able to successfully defend themselves with the concept of neutrality against the occupation. Switzerland and Sweden issue the double of our part for national defence. If not, then the other. If we cannot fully defend ourselves alone, then we are obliged to choose the union with the others if we have the opportunity to do so. This leads to a clear path, ladies and gentlemen. Let us learn from the processes in Yugoslavia! Decisions of the Security Council, decisions of the United Nations General Assembly, decisions of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe have not benefited anything to stop the aggression of the Serbian Government. Nothing used it! After five years of negotiations, and at the beginning of these terrible conflicts, mass deportations of the members of these countries, mass rapes, resulted in mass murders. Vukovar was at the beginning, and Srebrenica, with 8,000 civilians murdered, is at the end of this terrible development. Ladies and gentlemen! It was only when NATO intervened that this continuation of the mass murder was put to an end. If only two years of political negotiations had been conducted and then taken seriously by international law and UN Charters, these 8,000 civilians from Srebrenica would probably still be alive today. Ladies and gentlemen! No one can rejoice at any military conflict or complain of a Hurra patriotism in view of the growing capacity for destruction. However, in view of the terrible destruction capacity, after use of diplomatic and political means, if human dignity and human rights cannot be protected otherwise, military means can also be used. We owe this realistic view to our own country in particular. Following the aggression against Croatia in the UN Security Council, the French Foreign Minister has rightly stated: Power without justice leads to tyranny, but the law without power becomes ridiculous! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I therefore believe that it is right that the Federal Government has set itself the goal of giving a comprehensive report on all further options in the first half of 1997, which is to be decided after the 1998 discussion. [[Abg. Scheibner: 1998, Minister!]] I think it is useful to consider carefully such a far-reaching decision. This cannot be an excuse for a delay, but it should not be an impossibility to speak to the opposition, because, I believe, we must practice the broad dialogue. This is our good tradition. And approaches to this broad dialogue are already available. Mr Cap's statement is such an approach. There are also such approaches for all other political groups. If the political will exists, such approaches are given for a broad dialogue. I know, Mr Wabl, we are living in a strange political culture. If you show respect for the so-called political opponent, you have to think about whether this does not harm him. That too will change, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In any event, I was convinced when I declared the observer position in the West European Union on behalf of the Federal Government and signed the Treaty on the NATO Partnership for Peace that, in this way, in a broad discussion between the government parties and between government and opposition, we are taking a decision that will bring us more security and inwards because of mutual respect.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e4983	The next speaker is Mr Hans Helmut Moser.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e5008	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! 350 000 citizens have signed a popular desire, almost 6 percent of the electorate. I believe that it is therefore necessary and we here in this House are invited to respect, recognise and take this view seriously. In the course of this debate, we must seriously discuss and debate the issues contained in it. I am also of the opinion that it has long been appropriate for us to have a comprehensive debate on security policy in Austria, that we finally come to see in which direction a reorientation of Austrian security policy should take place. Ladies and gentlemen! The time is ripe; the time is ripe for changes in Austrian security policy. Ladies and gentlemen of the government! I see it as a failure, an awful failure if this necessary discussion is not actively and offensively conducted when you are standing there again and again, if you always give a very unclear picture of what is going to happen to us or what challenges it is to be faced, and especially if you do not put the facts clearly on the table. Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, I feel it is a sign that various declarations are made by well-known representatives of the government. For example, the Minister of Defence has declared that we could join the Western European Union and remain neutral at the same time. All experts say: That's not true. Or: The Foreign Minister stated abroad that NATO accession was an option. Hardly was he domestic, he relativized this and explained – how a press release could be found –: If you know how NATO will continue, then Parliament can decide in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! If, because of his contacts, the Foreign Minister does not know how the actual development is going to take place, I am really sorry about this Foreign Minister. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: He's not long foreign minister yet!]] Unfortunately, this is the case, and obviously he does not really have time to take care of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, because he is too busy with internal affairs. Ladies and gentlemen! But we demand – I think this is a compelling necessity – a more comprehensive and serious discussion. But not only in the Federal Government! It will also be necessary for this House to deal seriously with the options, the possibilities of future Austrian security policy. I therefore believe that it is really useful and useful for us to take the path that we have already taken, namely as at the request of the Liberals on 5 May. A parliamentary survey was held on October 1995, in which the subject could be discussed. We must continue this debate at the parliamentary level, and we must take advantage of the possibility of an inquiry again. Ladies and gentlemen! Now on the question of popular desire as such: I think it is a legitimate concern if a referendum is to be held on a particular subject. The referendum is an element of direct democracy, and I believe that it is also necessary as a complement to representative democracy. We Liberals are also of the opinion that, in principle, every subject is suitable for a referendum, and it is also legitimate to do so. But I would like to make a restriction, namely a restriction in the direction that this does not appear appropriate when questions are very emotionally occupied, as is the case, for example, on human rights issues. Such questions are not suitable for a referendum. The same is true of issues that are extremely complex, and in my opinion they are also issues of security policy. I therefore believe that it is necessary, in principle, to decide politically first, which option, which perspective is the best, and then to make this decision of a referendum. We Liberals believe that such a referendum would then be a useful addition to the political decision. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] It must be clear to us, however, that there is no constitutional need to subject the question of the neutrality of a referendum, because neutrality is not a principle of the Austrian federal constitution, Mr Wabl! There has also been an attempt to interpret neutrality as a basic principle or as a principle of the federal constitution, but this attempt was then buried again in the late 1960s, at the beginning of the 1970s. That means the following is clear: This House would also be able and entitled to decide, with a corresponding constitutional majority, on neutrality, on the continuation of the Neutrality Act. But it is a political question, and only in this context can we weigh the extent to which a referendum is to be made on a decision already taken. We Liberals can very well imagine such a referendum. However, we cannot follow the intentions of this popular desire, because the intentions of this popular desire are based on that – an Article 1a should be inserted – that negotiations for accession or association with supranational organisations that pursue or exert a common defence policy should be carried out only on the basis of a previous referendum. Ladies and gentlemen! If this is done if it is agreed to, that would mean: We have a ban on thinking, we have a ban on speech, we have a ban on discussion, we have a ban on negotiation. – And this cannot be in the sense of a responsible state policy activity of this Parliament or of the Federal Government, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We in the Liberal Forum therefore want the political decision to be taken first, and then, if this political decision has been taken, we believe that it is also legitimate for democracy to be democratic and quite possible to vote in favour of this decision. Mein Ladies and gentlemen! Now on the question of neutrality, which was also the content of this popular desire – the security policy option of neutrality should be defined, cemented and defined as irrevocable –: I mean, we really should deal seriously with this. We therefore find it very useful and very good that the Committee on Foreign Affairs has contributed to its deliberations in the subcommittee of experts, and the expert hearing there clearly and clearly shows that Austria's neutrality is no longer in line with the security requirements of the future. This, ladies and gentlemen, must also be taken into account in the political debate. Austria's neutrality is no longer the answer to the challenges of the future. You must not interpret into neutrality any more than was actually meant with it. Ladies and gentlemen! What was meant by neutrality in 1995? – Neutrality was a security policy concept, as a means of achieving the independence of Austria and not as a self-esteem. We have achieved this independence by thanking God. Neutrality was a means of achieving the territorial integrity of Austria. But neutrality has always been military neutrality because we have committed ourselves not to join any military alliance. But we were never politically neutral, we have always known the fundamental values of the democratic social order, we have always known ourselves to the community of values of Western democracies. We must also make this clear and clear. If we are a member of this democratic community of values today within the framework of the European Union, it is also legitimate and right to get closer to it on security issues and to get closer to this option or to draw it into the calculation. Ladies and gentlemen! Economically, we were never neutral either. We have clearly known ourselves to the free market economy, we have never been a member of the COMECON, for example, and therefore, I believe, we should see neutrality in the way they decided the founding fathers in 1955 as a security policy approach with a clear military objective. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The neutrality of Austria was part of the post-war order, was part of the security architecture after 1955, but today this old order, this security architecture of Europe is overcome. Today, we have completely changed security policy frameworks, and they cannot and must not be debated away. They're given. We have a changed geostrategic environment since the fall of the Berlin Wall, since the democratization process in Eastern Europe, since the disintegration of the Soviet Union, since the resolution of the Warsaw Pact, and this, of course, also has an impact on security policy. We are – and this situation will always be forgotten in this whole neutrality debate – a member of the European Union since the beginning of 1995 and the European Union has a common foreign and security policy with a possible development towards a common defence policy, which is also intended to run out of a common defence. Ladies and gentlemen! The outlines of the new European Security Regulation are also clearly recognizable: an approach to the key institutions and organisations on the European continent, a move towards the European Union, the Western European Union and NATO, always on the basis of the Charter of the United Nations. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that this development is to be recognized and accepted by us in the debate, that we are all invited to include it in our considerations, and that we must also question the old security concepts in the direction of whether they are still capable or still capable of dealing with the challenges of the future. We must ask ourselves what are the possibilities for optimum security for our country within the framework of the European Union. We therefore believe that we should benefit from the accession of Austria to the European Union. I should like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that we from the Liberal Forum have known us about Austria's accession to the European Union. At the time, it was a very important argument for us to join the European Union, the fact that the European Union was intended in principle as a peace work, and we are now invited to continue and develop this peace work. We should now, where we are EU members, draw the maximum benefit from this of our membership, and this, in my view, is the full integration of Austria into European security structures. The first opportunity that comes to my mind for this integration is because we have become a member of the European Union, the full accession of Austria to the Western European Union. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! With a full accession to the Western European Union, we could, in particular, achieve a greater degree of security, an increase in security that is also desired by the population, particularly in connection with the related and beneficial assistance obligations. In this context, I quote the result of a Gallup-Institut survey, to be read in the press: 48 percent of Austrians expect help from neighbouring countries in the event of a threat. I believe that we should meet this security need of the Austrians that, under international law, we could also receive this support and assistance, no matter what security scenario we accept as a basis. We believe that accession to the Western European Union is possible, necessary and sensible now, and that we should take advantage of this opportunity. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is so popular to polarize in the current debate: here neutrality, here NATO. One point is that security and defence policy is being made in the framework of the European Union through the Western European Union. We believe that it is useful to strengthen the European dimension of security policy in a first step. The Western European Union is the European Union's security policy instrument and the instrument for developing the European security and defence identity. That is precisely what we are calling for in the context of the security debate at European level. It is clear to me that accession to the Western European Union also raises the question of NATO accession, and if the first step is taken or if we are prepared to take the first step, we will also discuss the question of NATO accession and see what options or what framework conditions result from it. It is clear that with the accession to the Western European Union, it will be necessary to define the relationship with NATO accordingly – Mr Scheibner, let me speak out! – and to make it clear that the current relationship with NATO within the framework of the "Partnership for Peace" is not sufficient and that it will therefore be necessary to transfer and implement this sloppy relationship – allow me to compare it – into orderly relations. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Disc]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to point out that, because we are in favour of joining the Western European Union, we have also tabled a request on this subject. I think it would have been useful and necessary to signal Mr Spindelegger, at European level, at an early stage, that we are prepared to participate in a European security system, too. That is why we have proposed that we position ourselves clearly before the beginning of the EU Intergovernmental Conference. As a member of the European Union, we have the opportunity to guide the development of the Western European Union or the development of the European Union in a certain direction, to take part in and to decide on it as well. That was the motivation or reason why we submitted and submitted our request. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] In conclusion: Unfortunately, God does not take the opportunity of the government parties to take a step forward in the security debate today. In turn, a very soft motion for a resolution is tabled, a resolution which says nothing concrete. It contains a motion for a resolution which is insignificant. We shall therefore reject this motion for a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e5101	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e5123	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It has already been pointed out: More than 350 000 Austrians have signed the Neutrality People's Desire. It is therefore necessary – and it is also a question of the Children's Office of Democracy – to do the subject of the negotiation here, namely this neutrality-popular desire not only to take the opportunity not only to take up a general debate on security policy, but also to go into the subject itself. We have already pointed out in the explanatory statement of the proposal adopted by the Committee that the political concern of these more than 350 000 Austrians must be taken very seriously, and that the task of the Committee on Foreign Affairs was not only to value the popular desire politically – and in this regard we take it seriously – but also to judge it legally and legislatively. On this issue, the Subcommittee of the Foreign Policy Committee held a public meeting of renowned university professors, University Professor Dr. Manfred Rotter, University Professor Dr. Schindler from Switzerland and University Professor Dr. Heinrich Schneider. Ladies and gentlemen! By a large majority, the Committee considered that the text of the law, presented by the initiators of the popular desire, for constitutional and formal legal reasons, as much as we value it politically, is not suitable. This was most clearly explained by Professor Manfred Rotter when he referred to the question of Article Ia para. 1, namely, the injunction order to the Federal Government, said – and I quote it –: This proposal of popular desire does not contain any clarification, clarification or even extension of the legal situation already created by the quoted neutrality law, which could justify the effort of innovation. All normative elements of this part of the amendment proposal are sufficient in the Federal Constitutional Act on the Neutrality of Austria, if not more appropriate. In conjunction with Article II, namely the mandate of the Federal Government to implement this law, University Professor Rotter noted that the commitment of the Federal Government to comply with the Neutrality Act is clear about any doubt, so a revision is essential. In the event that the operators of the popular desire felt that the Federal Government had already violated this obligation, Professor Rotter said, it was allowed to point out that a doubling of the existing clear and clear legal situation cannot develop sanctions effects and is therefore also missing from this point of view. So, ladies and gentlemen, change Article Ia para. 1 the existing legal situation of the Neutrality Act would be the subject of the subsequent Article Ia para. 2 very likely to change the legal situation. The applicants do not only demand that a referendum be held in the media, if Austria join an organisation or a alliance of the common defence policy or seek such accession, but also that the question of the negotiations on it be subject to a prior referendum. On the other hand, all university professors spoke. Mr Schneider has expressly warned the Committee against this prohibition of negotiating or even thinking, as he called it. Professor Rotter pointed out that this procedure to provide for a referendum on this question was likely again to be a referendum within the meaning of Article 44(1). 3 Federal Constitutional Act, and he has mentioned further shortcomings and then said that, because of these shortcomings, the amendment request should not be followed on this point alone for formal legal reasons. It must be pointed out, fairly, that it has noted that it considers a referendum, even if it is not required by constitutional law, to be a matter of course. [[Intercession with the liberals.]] Mr President, I should like to thank you very much for your support. To respond to your call in the military language: Your caller is either poorly adjusted or misserviced, it works too loud and it hits next door. So think. Please check it, or practice on this question. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Mr Schieder, how long have you been preparing this quote?]] They will wonder: Firstly, there would be no chance of preparation, and secondly, I can see something from the situation. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: It didn't belong like that!]] Ladies and gentlemen! But to return to the issue of referendum: A future legislator will have to assess this question in the future if it asks for it. Today, however, we do not bind him in a constitutional direction, but then we leave him the democratic decision to be made. To sum up and clarify it, ladies and gentlemen: For these reasons, the rejection of popular desire is not a political consideration, no decision on our neutrality in one direction or another, and not at all a departure from neutrality itself. Neutrality has brought a lot to our country, it is borne by the majority of Austrians and, unlike other countries, I believe, still has meaning for our country today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] She's alive when we make her alive! It then has content, if the Austrians understand something about it! And if you think that requires us to have a certain responsibility for the world, for a peace policy, then I say to you: Even if this is not required by law, it is very, very good for the people of a country to stand up for these goals in the world! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Legally, by reducing to the innermost core of neutrality, namely the refusal of war participation and full membership of the EU and its communities, it has become possible to fully and actively participate in peace measures, unlike other neutral states from the outset. But before that, neutrality has not prevented us from participating actively and in solidarity with UN peace measures, including the CSCE, now OSCE, and the Council of Europe. Perhaps we have gone our own way in some questions. A well-known expert in this field once – I don't know if he meant it commending or criticizing or just describing – according to the song "I did it my way" we called the "Frank-Sinatra neutrality". In any case, we have also gone our way in harmony with other countries, and this path has helped our country, it has been good for our country. Ladies and gentlemen! He is also good for our country – and that should be our top goal! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] At the same time as the Neutrality Act, we have a request from the Liberal Forum for immediate membership of the WEU. The Committee was unable to endorse this request by a majority of its members. There is a motion for a resolution, some of which say that it was nothing new. In fact, he did not want to bring anything new, but he wanted to be on the line of the coalition agreement, on the line of the government declaration climate. He instructed the Federal Government to do what it intends to do, namely to examine the options and to report to Parliament. Some thought in this debate that we saw something terrible in NATO. I would like to stress, ladies and gentlemen, that the changes in NATO are being followed by us with great attention and approval. We expressly welcome the increase in the importance of consultation mechanisms, crisis management, humanitarian actions, peace-building within the framework of the "Partnership for Peace", but also the Combined Joint Task Forces in cases not covered by Article 5. Austria can and does participate in many of these new tasks – even without being a member of NATO and/or the WEU. Ladies and gentlemen! I say it again: We can participate in all the important actions that will be taken for membership in the meeting in solidarity. The point of membership is Article 5 in conjunction with Article 6. [[Abg. Scheibner: This is something positive for us!]] We see that it is losing in importance in NATO. We see that the old structures, which used to serve only its objectives, are being reduced in favour of the new possibilities for action. But it still applies – and in a stronger form also in the WEU – and I believe that this is the legal test stone of an organization on the way from the military alliance to the security system. However, the political test stone in Europe will also be that of how much security we have for all. An extension in the name of greater security, which at the same time also creates new uncertainty – for example through Russia – can mean an inevitable step back. Ladies and gentlemen! There is no reason to be quick nationally and without knowing the development of the next months, where important meetings are taking place, to define the content. This is all the more so than even those experts in the field of national defence, who for years have called for the immediate entry of NATO – such as the head of the section with whom I discussed on television days ago, or the expert at the National Defence Academy, who was in our committee meeting – cannot tell us until today how high the cost of accession will be. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] The section chief says it won't be much, probably a few 100 million schilling. The expert in the Committee says that there will almost be a member's contribution of between 1 and 2 billion. – It is clear that, if one has something like that, one must also consider whether one really wants what it is doing and what it costs – in political terms, in financial terms and also in many other ways. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: The question is, What is your safety worth?]] If you say that the preparation is bad, I must stop you from even telling the protagonists in their own territory what the preparations look like, for example, in the financial sector. That should also give you reason, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Scheibner: This is questionable, Mr President. That must be negotiated first!]] High house! Social democracy has recently renewed its positions on foreign and security policy and has found that Austria, similar to Sweden, Finland or Ireland, has the advantage of not belonging to a military pact, of not threatening anyone, nor of being threatened by anyone. We want to take advantage of this opportunity and develop it in the interests of pan-European security. We want a European security system. We want to do everything we can to avoid a new division of Europe. We want to avoid a new blockade because we know that Europe's security requires security for the individual states, for all the countries of Europe. The security of individual states can best be prospered and ensured in a secure Europe without new graves and dividing lines. Ladies and gentlemen! The challenge of the turn of the century that we are facing is no longer, as in the past, to win wars. [[Abg. Young: Millennium turnaround!]] We must use all our strength, all our abilities, everything to prevent wars. – This is the real task of security policy in our time.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e5279	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Kammerlander. - Please, you have the floor. Voluntary time limit: 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e5300	Mr President. Mrs Minister, Mr Pardon, Mrs State Secretary! I'd almost made you a minister now. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Schieder, despite all the efforts you made in your speech before, to regain the credibility of social democracy in the question of neutrality, I must tell you that your speech has sometimes sounded like an incitement formula, just like the incitement of the evil snake that rises out of the basket as you always see it in the picture. They had the impression that you were standing there and saying: We want neutrality! She's the best, and we've never wanted anything else. But on the other hand – and that is what you started in your speech, and that was your position in the committee – in your argument, you rely primarily on the expert opinions and on the legitimate interpretation of a proposal. There you leave aside very quickly the actual political discussion, which we believe should take place here in the house and not somewhere else, not by chance, and not for an hour, not for two hours, not on the occasion of any urgent request or then, if it fits you again, but here and now! From now on until the spring of 1998, we believe that the political debate should take place here in the house, for example in the case of an survey committee. In particular, Members should take a personal view of themselves, not delegating their opinion so much to the Federal Government, which, as we see and as has often been said here, has been misguided in recent months. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is therefore also very appropriate to start with a quote from our former President, who is very much appreciated across all party borders. He answered us in February of this year on the question of neutrality and popular desire for neutrality – I quote: "In the matter itself," writes Dr. Kirchschlager, "my experience is that the positive effect and the radiance of an ever-lasting neutrality is not based on the national legislation of the Neutral, but on whether the other states believe that the Neutral wants and is able to comply with its neutrality and to practise it in the future. This international credibility of neutrality has been largely lost in Austria." Look, that's the point! You listen to expert opinions in the Committee, then stand out and quote university professors, but you forget that this is about the political credibility that Austria has or no longer has, in an international context, in foreign policy, in Austria's international commitments. They have practised a salami tactics in Austria and abroad last year, which is similar to the one they are looking for: They say yes to NATO, once yes to the WEU – whether the barrel evening, whether the khol or the bowl says, indifferent, whether the climate says, with a hesitant: Well, if anything changes, then maybe! or before already Vranckky or Kostelka. [[Abg. Arbitrators: In a salami tactics, however, you do not cut different sausages into small slices, but always the same sausage! Communist Rakosy invented that!]] – You have different salami species! There are a lot of species in the meantime, and you always cut off a slice. But then, if it gets too brittle, stand out here and speak your incitement formulas, you have always been for neutrality anyway and still be for it today. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] At the same time, however, a cover tactic has been practised. In the Committee, for example, Mr Schüssel presented a very impressive speech, which he considered to be a comprehensive security policy. I can only give him right in everything and everyone. When he speaks of comprehensive security policy, he means much more than just a military alliance: It's about Krško, it's about drug policy, it's about issues like East Timor, and much more. All of this must be seen in a common foreign and security policy. – I can only say: Completely right! However, I wonder why he and most ministers, almost all the ministers of the ÖVP, including the former Foreign Minister, then stand out here and speak on their part a conjugation formula which is somewhat different, namely: That's where we have to go! We can't stand on the edge! We can't watch that! That is important, that is really the most important thing for this common security policy. . Contrary to the statements made by your Foreign Minister in the Committee, however, it will again be reduced to the exclusive military option. Don't come with the following: Do not try to explain to us that NATO is now a peace alliance or that anything has changed in NATO. – Nothing has changed at all! The only thing that has changed since that famous and often quoted NATO summit is that it is now possible to carry out regional operations at European level, with the help of the WEU, which will then be the European arm of NATO. If Mr Moser stands here dreaming of a WEU accession and fails to remember that this is the letterbox for NATO, I ask myself: Do the liberals really want to be satisfied with the status of a postcard in a mailbox? [[Abg. Scheibner: Can be!]] Is your policy so to speak reduced to a greeting card? That sounds like the motto: We want to be there too!, but what that actually is and which letterbox company behind it is, you obviously don't care anymore, that push you to the side, that doesn't tang you. This is the only thing that has changed at this NATO summit, which you so often quote to make us know, especially the population, that the whole thing would be quite different now. – No talk about it! On the one hand, the former Minister Mr Mock asks: Why do we take so much regard for Russia, which will probably be able to defend itself?, and on the other hand, Mr Haider, with a very disarming openness, once again speaks out what is going on behind the scenes all the time, namely: If we give these countries the NATO East, then they may finally give peace when it comes to economic issues, namely enlargement of the EU. All of this actually raises the question of future European development, in the sense of a comprehensive security policy. What you are doing, Mr Mock, and also what Mr Haider is doing is a totally unilateral, one-sided and highly dangerous kind of European policy and comprehensive security policy, because a truly comprehensive security policy also includes the economic development of those countries that are not developed to the extent that we, especially those countries that are struggling with unemployment and massive economic problems. But you obviously push that aside and say: We are not interested in this, now we are based on this European security architecture, and then we will see. These countries will already be satisfied with their presence somewhere. We do not need the other thing, we cannot afford it anyway, and therefore these countries do not need it. – This is how this cynical policy of the government coalition looks! It has been declared openly here once: That's behind it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Moser has also said that we can make a referendum on all possible issues, that is right and important, but it is better not to make a referendum on such emotional, so delicate, sensitive and complex issues. This is similar to the death penalty and human rights. Security policy is also such a sensitive area, as it should not be done. Mr Moser! They seem to forget completely that this is not a question that one can so to say, "out of the belly" according to the feeling, but that is a constitutional law! It is a constitutional provision which is simply to be modified or wiped away, without reading the spring, without reference to Parliament. That is the question. It is also not only about the fact that Parliament is not involved, but also about the fact that, when it comes to the amendment of the federal constitution, of course, a referendum must be carried out. Don't ask yourself out here and don't pretend to be such an unpleasant and emotional question. This really only exposes your ignorance of what the neutrality is, and shows only what direction you are actually coming from. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] How did the German Government respond to this legitimate concern of some hundred thousand Austrians who signed this popular desire? – I give you in one right: The popular desire may have been unfortunately formulated, and it would have signed much more people if it had been possible to find a formulation expressing the content of the concern. But that is the difficulty in the salami tactics I have described: that it is hard to put in a legislative text in a legal way. But that in your policy it is a matter of moving and changing positions practically every day, many people in Austria have already heard this. With these legitimate concerns, with these legitimate concerns and with this legitimate concern, this government coalition is dealing with in a very peculiar way. They also seem to forget that in the course of the accession to the European Union, many promises have been made to the population, but none have been met. And one of these promises, for example, said: Neutrality will not be shaken. That was also the reason why so many people signed this popular desire. But what do you say about ÖVP and SPÖ? . They state in a request that the political concerns of the more than 350 000 people's signatorys should be taken seriously, and then propose that the Federal Government should consider all further security policy options, in particular the full membership of Austria at the WEU. This cynicism must be applied, I must say – no matter what opinion one has on the security policy options, across all borders. You have to be clear about this. A few hundred thousand sign a popular desire, and They answer this in the way that people are concerned, especially in this respect, that the question of neutrality ends up in the next dynamite, as the Federal Government should examine full membership in the Western European Union. That is the cynical response of the Federal Government to this popular desire! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I know what's behind it: Their dream of becoming a full member of the Western European Union and later of all in NATO – with a special treaty, a special arrangement, however it may look, as far as the obligation to assist is concerned. The duty to assist is something really annoying, indeed, is that area that disturbs if one still wants to pay attention to neutrality. And you have to pay attention to them, because they see so many Austrians as important facts. They say: Let us look at this once, let us join, let us negotiate, and that with the duty of assistance will somehow be settled. They are doing in the way they have been in the last one and a half years: They have violated neutrality by having entered NATO's "Partnership for Peace", since the "Partnership for Peace" is clearly seen as a preliminary step of membership in NATO, as well as being interpreted and seen by NATO itself, since the "Partnership for Peace" provides for the orientation of national defence institutions, mutual transparency in defence plans and so on. They have violated the neutrality of the observer status that we have in the Western European Union, since this observer status is equated with full membership in terms of rights and obligations, especially with regard to the mutual obligation to provide information and secrecy – and this significantly violates the neutral status of a country. Finally, you have violated neutrality by not informing Parliament of these agreements with NATO, with the "Partnership for Peace" – and now the Staff Regulations – by refusing a debate, a vote on them in Parliament. We are therefore proposing the following resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] In our view, these proposals must be presented urgently to Parliament, and there must be a debate on them. We believe that these agreements violate neutrality, and there should be a political debate and an assessment on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e5416	Mrs Mag. The motion for a resolution tabled by the Chamber of Credentials is supported in accordance with the rules of procedure and is included in the negotiations. Mr Spindelegger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). – Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e5440	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to deal with the essence of the popular desire under negotiation. I personally have the highest regard for all those who have initiated the popular desire and above all those who have signed it – perhaps because of a very personal assessment of neutrality, the declaration of neutrality in 1955 and the associated freedom of Austrian occupation powers. I'm influenced by my parents' house: My parents suffered under Nazi rule, but also in occupied Lower Austria under Russian occupation. And I therefore know directly from the discussions in my family how much neutrality was connected to the freedom of Austria at the time, in a very emotional sense. I therefore have a high regard for the signatorys, but for my generation I would like to take advantage of the fact that those who now bear in this society what constitutes this state also have a right to determine their own security policy for the next few years and not to be arrested in what was earlier. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr Gredler]] I think it would be bad to join NATO immediately or to explain that there is so much in the field of security policy at the moment: No matter what happens, we will definitely remain neutral! Something is happening in the framework of the Intergovernmental Conference of the European Union, and it is about a new relationship between this triangle of the European Union, the Western European Union and NATO – as it will always be. It looks as if a planning cell in the European Union is coming out of the European Union, as if the Western European Union might be merged with the European Union. On the other hand, it shows a new NATO – "new" in the sense of new members. But when Secretary-General Solana was in Parliament, he was very likely also addressing new objectives, new structures, which will be associated with them. Thirdly, we must remember that with the policies of recent years, with decisions of the Security Council, the UN has intervened very actively in world affairs – and we have not known this before. So something is happening in the field of security policy, and this year will be important dates that will make it easier for us to take a next step. However, on the occasion of popular desire, I should like to make the following point: I think it is very bad that we should now put our hands on ourselves, that we should not look back and look back, not turn right and not left, as some political groups are planning in this House. As Alois Mock said, security policy is a question of very long-term assessment of structures and something where one must look very responsibly into the future. Ladies and gentlemen! I would now like to deal with the request made by Mr Moser, who is unfortunately absent. He has defended this request today, but I would like to make the following clear – if you read the application, it is actually self-evident – that: It is stated in the application: The Federal Government is invited to enter into negotiations with the Western European Union on entry into force of Austria immediately and to conclude accession negotiations by the end of the EU Government Conference, which will begin in March 1996. [[Abg. Scheibner: But you can't blame him if the application is not dealt with for a year!]] Dear colleague Scheibner! I would also like to say something about this: The Liberals' request was made on 28 March. The accession negotiations should have been concluded in February 1996 – which can be read – and until the start of the Intergovernmental Conference – it started in March 1996. [[Abg. Scheibner: This has not been treated for a year!]] I think that speaks for itself! [[Abg. Scheibner: If you had tried, you would!]] The proposal has not been dealt with for a year, but yet, I believe, we need not talk today about whether we can accept such a request. – He cannot be accepted, I would like to hold on to that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] On this occasion, I would also like to inform Mr Moser of the following: It is not necessary to say how good your own negotiating position is if you set yourself a time limit of not even one month before you start negotiations. I therefore believe, Mr Moser, that, although this proposal may be well meant, it does not seem useful from the intention of Austria's security policy. Ladies and gentlemen! I would now like to turn very clearly to the Greens, of whom, unfortunately, no Members are present – but that is the case. It is very surprising to me how the security policy of the Greens has changed. The Greens are trying to use the concept of neutrality, which no one wants so properly now, and say: We are the first fighters for neutrality. And this against the following background: The Greens, who in Austria have always rejected a military defence, who have always had a truly disturbed relationship on questions of national defence in the broad sense, are now trying to make us clear that they will be the truers and protectors of the neutrality of Austria. And this, ladies and gentlemen, although the law of neutrality not only states that we should not join any other alliances, but in the first paragraph it is stoned and clearly also anchored that, for the purpose of the inviolability of the territory of Austria, this country must be defended with all the means at its disposal. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm just waiting for the Greens to put in an upgrade proposal for the Federal Army, but I think we'll wait a long time – they won't put it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hans Helmut Moser.]] I would like to add a second point – Mrs Kammerlander, I am pleased that you have arrived again: If you were really serious at the time to support the vote of Austria concerning the accession to the European Union by your Yes in this House, I ask you: Which alliance have you joined? We have joined a European Union that is committed to a common foreign and security policy. I do not know which European Union They wanted to join at the time. We see it realistically, as it is. In the CFSP provisions of the Maastricht Treaty, the European Union is also committed to working together on defence issues in the future. – You don't seem to want that, but you agreed at the time. I'm asking: Did you withdraw your consent back then? - No, you don't. I assume that you still agree, but you cannot explain this contradiction. I would also like to make the following very clear: Then, if it got serious, you've pursued a completely different policy. When the war began in the Balkans to flourish in the most despicable way, your representative Peter Pilz demanded that a military action be taken there, your foreign-political spokesperson demanded that Austria also participate in military measures. Your neutrality policy is therefore: Then, when it gets serious, we don't think about it anymore – but before we talk about it big. – This is not a policy of neutrality! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The Greens really can't boast of using a big and strong word for themselves, but on the other hand, pick out only one detail that is just pleasant to them. I'm sure you can't. Since you have spoken of credibility today, I can assure you: Your policy on neutrality is more than credible, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] At the end of the day, I would like to emphasise our position clearly: We are waiting for the important events to take place this year: a decision by NATO on new members, on new structures of this NATO new, on a new form of organisation, we are also waiting for what the EU Government Conference will decide on these issues, but then we will go without any taboo and without shattering our hands to choose the right way for the security policy of Austria – and there will be no limit in it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e5541	The next speaker is Mr Scheibner. - Please. Voluntary time limit: 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e5562	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Spindelegger set out in his final statement the credo of the security policy of the Austrian People's Party: wait, wait for what the others decide, and then perhaps take part in something. [[Abg. May. Mühlbachler: You didn't understand!]] You said: Watch, wait, and then we'll think about how we decide. And that's exactly what we're throwing at you, colleague Spindelegger! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Now is not the time to watch, now is not the time to wait and to simmer, but it is now time to make the right choices for Austria too after six years of security policy development in Europe. Mr Spindelegger! You say this also in the four-eye discussion, and – what always bothers me when we discuss it again – also abroad, representatives of the People's Party are always saying: We want to go to NATO, there's a very clear line, that's already decided thing, we just can't, because there's still a few people who don't leave us so right yet, but it's all decided, we're doing it! Mr Spindelegger! At least be so honest to say here that you want it, but you can't or can't do it yet, that it's your will. But then don't say: In reality, our line is clear: We watch and wait. – This is an dishonest policy with which you have to fight all the time here. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Dr. Mock! I, of course, share your analyses that you have made. And if you are here at the speaker's desk, I also remember the importance of Austrian foreign policy under your leadership. I just remember the development in the former Yugoslavia. It was Austria at the head of the democratic states that advocated the independence of these states. All the more I also support your offer for dialogue with the opposition. I just don't understand, Dr. Mock, that you said right at the beginning of your speech, that you don't want to deal with the arguments of the liberals at all, because this is the case with EU accession: First they're for it, then they're against it. – Mr Dr. Mock, that was a polemic that I was not used to from you until now. I hope that this was, as it were, only due to the line of your party and is not your true opinion. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Mühlbachler.]] You know, Mr Mock, that the question of EU membership was quite another one, and unfortunately, I say, "sorry" – we were right in our concerns about the poor preparations for EU accession, regarding the outcome of the negotiations. If the preparation had been better then, one would have listened to the concerns of the liberals at that time, we would not have this anti-EU vote in the population today. That is precisely what we are talking about on this issue of security policy, Dr. Mock! Let us inform you now – in time! – the population openly and honestly. Let us conduct open discussions, but let us not hide and darken reality, and let us not wonder after that that we do not find support in the population. That would be the right line. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Schieder of the Social Democrats meant that neutrality would still have its purpose. One always forgets, however, to say what purpose this is, in which lies the so much quoted core of neutrality. Mr Fuhrmann! Perhaps you can then explain what is at the heart of a global neutrality for the security interests of Austria. You haven't heard that from anyone so far. It would be interesting to mention that in this debate. I am very happy about this - and I must also repeat at the occasion of this debate - that, through this popular desire, which is on the agenda today, we are finally beginning here in Parliament with a security policy debate; with a security debate that we should have had for a long time – not today, not yesterday, but years ago, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Haider said yes: In 1990 we were the first to discuss the question of neutrality and the participation of Austria in alliances in Europe. Six years, almost seven years, have been lost in the question of Austrian attitudes in this area. As a result of this popular desire, Parliament is now finally forced to highlight the positions of government. For the questions "Partnership for Peace", observer status in the Western European Union, all this has passed this House, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! There has been no decision on this, nor has there been any debate on it. It would also be interesting to discuss the importance of the people's representation in security policy if you were to say quite rightly that the population in this area is showing great interest and interest. All the more so, we have the responsibility to clarify a position to the government, which is what the opinion of this People's Office in security policy looks like. That would be a task for us. I hope that it is not the way it has been in the past that requests relating to this area will be put to an end in any committees, not dealt with or rejected after a short debate, but that we will be able to hold a proper and long-term debate in this House next year. This would also be a step forward, a success of popular desire, which is being debated here today. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] A word for popular desire: I do not share the wording and the intentions. On the other hand, if we talk about the importance of the instruments of direct democracy, we must regret, in spite of this opposite view, that such an initiative, signed by 350 000 Austrians, only leads us to debate it for two or three hours today, then reject it and thus end the discussion on this initiative. Perhaps we should discuss it elsewhere and consider how to develop such instruments of direct democracy in such a way as to gain more weight in the parliamentary process. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! I believe that all the words we have heard so far also testify a bit of bad conscience. The debates that are now being held in the media are also going in this direction. We do not dare to tell the people the truth, because we know very well that before Austria's accession to the EU, something else has been said and because we are also responsible for certain moods and currents in the population. It is not a coincidence that opinion polls show that the majority of the Austrians – that is very true – are for maintaining neutrality, but at the same time a majority say: Yes, a NATO accession would be positive for Austria, although one absolutely excludes the other. This is the only way to see the information deficit there is. All you have to do is look at the messages. I have to say that it is relatively clear at SPÖ. Mr Cap, who does not speak today, takes a different view than the rest of his party, which is against the whole, an attitude which we do not share, because I believe there are still resentments against NATO, against America, which we should actually overcome, but it is a clear position. You can fight against it and you can argue against it. But with the People's Party it is difficult because you do not know exactly what their position is. What's the position? Foreign Minister Schüssel – he is responsible for it – says: Yes, a NATO membership is imaginable. Only two months later, he says: No interest in NATO. Then he says again: Accession to NATO may occur. We want to get through the WEU rail in NATO. A month later: Do not head over to the NATO-bassin; NATO discussion is not a debate. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party! It would also be necessary for at least once the responsible Minister of State Schüssel to decide what he and you are for. Then, too, such things as they have now happened in these talks in Bonn, that the Austrian security policy of ridiculousness is being abandoned. If we are talking about neutrality, Mr Fuhrmann, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, who are holding you at the heart of neutrality, then we should consider what was the cause of this neutrality, the reason, the historical value. There is only a need to look at the Moscow Memorandum, which clearly states that the status of the continuing neutrality of Austria has been the condition of Moscow for the conclusion of a State Treaty. Of course, Austria has been able to or must have come through to this status at the time, although not really with great joy, otherwise we would not have received a state treaty or independence. Neutrality was then a means for Austrian independence – no more and no less. This is the great historical value. But it cannot be taken for granted that we regard this as a dogma today and believe that it is part of the Austrian identity. That's really not to understand. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! Read the Federal Constitutional Law on the Neutrality of Austria from 1955. This is also clear: "For the purpose of constantly claiming its independence externally and for the purpose of the inviolability of its territory, Austria shall declare its constant neutrality free of charge." – 1955, Mr Fuhrmann! We cannot say that since 1955 nothing has changed, nothing has happened; we continue to take this law seriously and as such from 1955, and this prevents us from leaving other options open. In fact, it was not the case that Austria took this neutrality seriously. The United Nations accession alone has led to problems with international judges. This has been avoided because the application for membership dates back to 1947. That is, we did not have the problem of joining the UN as a neutral state, because neutrality was not a topic in 1947. We have given up this neutrality in all other areas since 1955 – as has already been discussed today. Mr Fuhrmann! In the Moscow Memorandum, neutrality is also recorded according to Swiss patterns. What does that mean, "according to Swiss pattern"? – We have just given up on UN accession at the latest. We have already given up on this alone because we have not done anything for our national defence, nothing in terms of the self-defense of this country, and that we have, in truth, always seen our security policy orientation under NATO's shield. All of our national defence doctors, our national defence plans, have been based on the fact that we have two or three days in a serious case and hope that NATO will come to our aid. That was, in fact, our security policy guarantee. Neutrality was certainly a foreign political function of Austria during the cold war. However, we have always made security policy under NATO's leadership. You just didn't say that to the Austrians. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Today, however, we should be ready to tell the truth and work towards a more serious international reality. One should not speak of core and one's own definition, because international security neutrality is only effective if the others know something about it. This must have an external effect. You can't say we define ourselves as we see ourselves there. What sort of security-political function should such a serious neutrality – that is, isolation from all other countries and also the taking seriously of the tasks assigned to such states? In fact, ladies and gentlemen, it is not a question of whether Austria should continue to remain neutral, because, at the latest since EU accession to the Common Foreign and Security Policy, we have also documented externally that Austria is no longer a neutral state, but it is about – and we are waiting for the decision – whether we are going to go a way of isolation, independent isolated national defence or whether we are doing security policy together with other states. But you must also say what this means, ladies and gentlemen, above all by the Social Democrats. To remain alone would mean that Austria must uplift its national defence so as to be able to face all possible future and non-exclusive threats itself. This would mean threefolding, quadrupling our national defence budget and also the complete isolation of Austria in the international community of states. The second way would be to participate in the security integration of Austria with all its rights and obligations. This is the vision of Europe, ladies and gentlemen. There is no economic integration, no social integration, no environmental integration without security integration. That is why we should: make the democratic movements in the East irreversible and build a lasting peace order for our future and future generations. Austria must not stand away from this – because of its geopolitical situation alone. It would be important for us also to have a say in how European security policy develops before countries such as Poland, Hungary, the Czech Republic and Slovenia become members of this NATO. I don't understand how to say: NATO must develop there and still have to cover it, but we ourselves do not want to contribute to this development. This has been said differently by the EU: You said you wanted to go in and then change. Why don't you also use this argument in the matter of security policy? Ladies and gentlemen! I do not think that we are going further if we bring gruesome stories of nuclear weapons stations. It is not even de facto possible that in Austria, if we were NATO member, nuclear weapons are stationed by NATO, since NATO no longer has land-based nuclear weapons. It is also clear that there will be no foreign military stations in the new Member States. At the end of the day, at the cost. That too is such an argument. No one could count the cost, was criticized here. This is quite clear, ladies and gentlemen: because every member country, each member of the board, concludes a separate contract with NATO. There are very different conditions. It is also our responsibility that we take note of this. That is why we are in favour not only of taking on the duties – as we do now – but also of using the rights and working on and working on this security integration with all the rights and obligations. That is why I am tabling a motion for a resolution. [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make a second motion for a resolution, which deals with the full NATO Assembly. This is the parliamentary body of NATO, in which we sit as observers in the last row, while in front of us Albania, Russia, Bulgaria and Romania can negotiate fully on the development of this security system, because they all have an association status. Our proposal goes in the direction of at least equalizing Albania in this integration. We also want to achieve this association status for Austria – and this is independent of a NATO accession – in this NATO full assembly. In conclusion, I would like to put the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Do it at last! It would be time to finally set the safety policy lines for Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e5694	The two motions for resolutions tabled by honourable Members are in accordance with the rules of procedure and are included in the negotiations. The next speaker is Mr Dr. Fuhrmann. You wish a speech time of 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e5723	Don't, Khol, don't take it away from me! I just wrote that down when I was listening to my colleague Scheibner. Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I know that Mr Klubobmann Khol did not want to put an unkind act to me by bringing in an intermediate call the quote of Qualtinger, where it said: "I don't know where I'm going, but I'm there before." My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I too have thought of this before, Mr Scheibner. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] Go, Count, maybe you could have some who are inside now, once the democratic culture, listen to us too, who are not your opinion, instead of always yelling! I know this is a method in the FPÖ club, but I would very much like to discuss it with Mr Scheibner on an objective level. That's why you might be a bit quiet on your side once. Mr Scheibner! When you said in your debate contribution – it was quite at the beginning of your speech – it was wrong for the government and the government parties to observe and wait now, and you should finally do something – that was the sukkus of your statement; You nod, so I did not misunderstand you – I also realized what Khol just said before, but in a slightly changed form. Don't fear that You could get into the situation that you say: "I don't know exactly where I want to go right now, but the main thing is that I'm inside earlier." Mr Scheibner! Mein Ladies and gentlemen from the FPÖ and also from the Liberal Forum! This is in the direction of Mr Moser and his contribution to the debate. I think we can agree in this House on one thing: NATO is still under construction, and the final structures of this NATO are still open. There you cannot blame a responsible policy, which says: Now let's look at this! We're there too! We can talk! We have provided, on a constitutional basis, that we can, of course, agree fully and fully with the development of a European security system. But we reserve the right to decide whether and in what form we want to be in the final development. Ladies and gentlemen! I think, even though I recall Mr Haider's contribution to the debate, that a very important point of reference between us on this issue is the following: Haider and even Scheibner have always, although not literally, but in terms of content, spoken of a European security alliance. Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ and also Mr Moser! I've got the impression that you're a little preoccupied with mental claws because you're just thinking in the direction of a military alliance. We distinguish ourselves from you on this issue by discussing and working together – not only want to, but also to do it – on the creation of a European security system for the future. Ladies and gentlemen! That's a little more than a military alliance. Where it is straight from the past... [[Call for the call.]] So I'm unsuspecting. It's not an anti-American reflex with me. On the contrary! I'm known for being very US-philic. I refer only to the concept of NATO as a military alliance, as a defense alliance – Article 5, Article 6 – including its links to the WEU. In one I give right to all who say: A full membership of the WEU makes sense only if you are also with NATO. Because one without the other would certainly be pointless. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to stress – and I fully support this as a social Democrat, a member of this Socialist Group – that is why I think the motion for a resolution that we are going to bring in and decide today is quite a thing: We want to help create a reasonable European security system for the future, not only for the coming century, but also for the coming millennium. We want to think not only about the design of a military alliance or some military alliances and work on them, but also about a future European security model with flexible structures, such as crisis management, coalition of the willing, ad hoc coalitions, case-by-case operations. That must be the case. We want to be there, and we will be able to do so because we have established our constitutional law in connection with our accession to the European Union. That is why it would also be bad to go back to the occasion of this debate today, if we were to intervene in this constitutional situation as this popular desire would like, namely to change the foreign representation competence of the Federal Government and the Federal President in such a way that they would not even talk about a reasonable future European security system. Ladies and gentlemen! That is why – and that has already been said in great detail – one cannot be in favour of this popular desire, even if one can stress one's intentions, which go towards maintaining neutrality, at the present time one hundred percent. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e5793	The next speaker is Mrs Gredler. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e5814	Mrs. State Secretary! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, neutrality has had its important role. I see it that way. Between Warsaw Pact on the one hand and another pact on the other, it was at the time wisest to be neutral in order not to suffer the fate of our neighbouring countries. That was a decision that was justified in 1955. Now we have 1997. I was also educated at a time when my father told me that neutrality is important to cement our independence. But I never realized that it was important to stop thinking. I have heard that Austria has to position itself and at any time check whether the position is correct. That's why, when I was born, my father's opinion was: We belong to the European Union – of course it was still different at the time. It took a long time to go this way. Now we will probably need a long time to take the next step towards a reasonable security structure. Ladies and gentlemen! This is not something that should be blamed on us, but it should be congratulated on Parliament for finally moving into this matter. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] In relation, I would ask Mr Spindelegger to read the request we made in 1996 so that the negotiations will not be concluded until March 1996, but that the negotiations of the Intergovernmental Conference will begin by 1996. However, we should come to a conclusion until the end of the Intergovernmental Conference. That was the intention of the application. That's what it's written. The commas may not be suitable or not present. But in principle, the proposal corresponds to the fact that there would have been more than a year to open negotiations. This has not been the case so far. We would also like the WEU to have a different meaning in Europe. It's just a torso right now, a hull of thoughts, but there's no effectiveness behind it. On the one hand, I see the problem in NATO that, for example, the veto potential that has been threatened by Turkey is certainly not one...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e5849	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Excuse me for a second. Mr Spindelegger! Are you calling? No, please, this is absolutely inadmissible in plenary. [[Abg. Wabl: Probably he leads a phone call with arms companies!]] Excuse me. Continue, Mrs. Gredler.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e5876	I would like to say to NATO that I think it is actually unacceptable when countries like Turkey threaten with veto in order to prevent activities. I think it makes sense to be in an alliance that on the one hand, one must not be forced to participate in activities, on the other hand, but should not slow down activities that this alliance has in mind. Mrs Kammerlander said that the constitutional changes should be subject to a referendum. I only agree with you on a conditional basis. They themselves urge a constitutional change at the current parliamentary session, which should not be subject to a referendum. I believe that the female name of the head of state, for example, is not an issue that should be taken into account now in this forum. That is why I cannot help you if you want to have a commitment. But you have deliberately, I think, my previous speaker Moser misunderstood, or you have hearing difficulties. We have said that we do not refrain from making a referendum. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wabl.]] Mr Wabl! Calm down. You're heard so bad in the front. Maybe I could be a little illustrious. You said the WEU is a letterbox company. The WEU is currently not a company at all. That's what we're suffering. But I believe that the purpose of the WEU is that it is independent that it is embedded in an institution called the EU's common security and foreign policy and thus receives parliamentary control. On the other hand, it is true that NATO-New has actually defined that the positions of the Europeans can be found autonomously, that decisions are taken autonomously, that actions can be carried out autonomously and the means used can be made autonomously. Since, I think, NATO is certainly in a position that we actually support by saying: We want such an independence within Europe. However, we are fully aware that on the other hand, the role of America cannot be forgotten. Of course, what is now simplifying the situation is financing on the one hand. The expansion of NATO costs 461 billion dollars. There is still open who has to take over when this funding is to be financed. On the other hand, one cannot demand that Russia lose its role as one of the most important countries in the world in this case and that only more America, so to speak, has the most important role to play. I believe that we should be fair enough and guarantee an agreement with Russia. The interpretation of the Russians goes in the direction that they first entered a veto and now only demand more security guarantees. Therefore, there is also an opening visible there. This is certainly something that is very important to us, because Russia is certainly an important partner for us, not only economically, but also an important partner to shape peace in Europe. Mr Haider – he is not here at the moment – spoke about the clear position – he said otherwise – about the closed position of the F since 1990 on the EU's common foreign and security policy and NATO accession. In 1990, Mr. Haider said: No to the EU, but yes to NATO. In the combination, I must say, this was unique and, of course, not to understand. I cannot be against the EU on the one hand, but on the other hand I can support the common European security, foreign and defence structure. I think he disagreed with himself in 1990. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You're messing up the years!]] This is a way that has actually been seamless until now. I cannot therefore follow that. But I really believe that we in Europe need a common security policy with the help of the Austrians from the beginning. A look at, waiting and possibly drinking tea, Mr Spindelegger, is certainly not what I understand under political responsibility.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e5923	The next speaker is Dr. Maitz, Member of Parliament. Please, honourable Member, you are speaking. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e5944	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! For us, the People's Party was and is crucial to neutrality. This principle reads as follows: What is best for the external security of the Austrian population is that we have to represent, in the past, in the present and in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is clear to the past. In the time of the cold war, in the time of the Iron Curtain, neutrality was correct and a key to the state treaty. At present, we are obliged to participate actively and in solidarity for our country, for our fellow citizens, in the new security and defence structures in and for Europe. Recently, the comments of three major journalists: Hugo Portisch, as an expert and commentator of the Austrian history of time undisputed, in an exclusive interview with his 70. Birthday in the "Kurier", Kurt Seinitz, Head of the Foreign Policy Editor of the "Kronen Zeitung" on neutrality according to Swiss pattern and Georg Hoffmann-Ostenhof, head of the foreign policy of the "profile". Let me bring these three quotations. Hugo Portish: "Neutrality has benefited us during the Cold War. She wouldn't have protected us from a real war for a second. ... In the first second of an East-West war, the Russians would have marched if the Americans had marched. A Russian general showed us on a map of how Vienna would have been encircled, where the Hungarian troops would have marched." To the Swiss pattern – Kurt Seinitz: "If there is a reason why it is good to belong to a large community, then it is the example of Switzerland's frustration about the consequences of its no to the EU: The dynamic financial centre of Europe has moved to Luxembourg, and the economic and political prospects of Switzerland are not rosy either. Switzerland's getting out of the way. Debt is the claw on an obsolete neutrality concept... Austria threatens to enter the European Union like Switzerland. This is not good for our economy in the long term, as there is no reason at all to be proud of neutral isolation." Third quote: Georg Hoffmann-Ostenhof, an unquestionably recognized commentator of international politics, says: The Austrians are "presumptuous to the truth" in terms of neutrality. Eight years after the turn in Eastern Europe, neutrality is "an obsolete institute" and has "no real meaning" more. While she was "very effective" in the cold war, we now have to ask ourselves: "Neutrality between what?" Ladies and gentlemen! In the future, we will hear the signals from the population, and this popular desire is such a signal, as well as the leadership of politics. We from the People's Party are ready for both, because for us political work always means serving and leading both. The hour's commandment is therefore: The new foreign policy and defence policy conditions are to be observed for the best possible external security. In other words, we have the results of the Intergovernmental Conference on a Common Foreign and Security Policy in the European Union, which will clarify the EU-WEU relationship, to observe the results of the NATO Summit on Eastern Enlargement held in Madrid in July and the outcome of the negotiations on a Common Security Charter between Russia and NATO. We want to act in solidarity with Western democracies within the framework of the European Union, we want to maintain our role as intermediaries in the new democracies in the East and the South-East of Europe, and we want to continue to make our contribution to peace in the world within the framework of the United Nations. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Our all task is to do persuasion work inside and outside so that we can make the right decision at the right time – that is the crucial one. That's what the People's Party stands for. [[Abg. Wabl: But you can't do that!]] That is why we cannot accept the motions for resolutions tabled by Mr Scheibner, because they do not in themselves conclude that the Assembly is, in part, factually incorrect and premature. [[Abg. Scheibner: But this is interesting now!]] The assembly, which we both belong to as observers, is a separate organizational body that stands in a loose connection with NATO. If the motion for a resolution says that we should negotiate with NATO in order to achieve an association with the NAA, it is unfortunately incorrect, not coherent and essentially premature in itself. [[Abg. Scheibner: You just don't want it!]] With Mrs. Kammerlander, I am not going to get rid of the suspicion, even if they, whom we stand for proper national defence, repeatedly accuse us of being a war-driver and of being connected with the war industry – you say it is true, Mr. Cot – that it is not about neutrality at all, but about using this as a vehicle for their real purpose, namely the abolition of the federal army. [[Abg. Wabl: That's right, too!]] [[Abg. May. Kammerlander: Such a bad thing!]] Can I give you a proof? The following press release came from the Green Country Day Club in Styria – You should listen carefully to this – on the topic of the German army's performance show. First, the performance show is protested – that is, of course, everyone’s right – and then comes the text that I feel is immense: "We feel that the temptation of children with military war equipment and others, as harmless playing games, is particularly disgusting. We call on those responsible in the military and politics" – now you have to listen carefully! –: "Take your bloody paws of innocent children! Austria is really worried other than a" – please listen carefully! – "to provide border guard, which is only good for killing young men." [[Abg. Scheibner: Scandal!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's unheard of!]] In principle, armies are senseless and stupid, the Greens say. Of course, the Austrian army is only a good one, that is, to abolish it! Whatever you use as a vehicle to achieve this goal, you will not prevent us from making a proper security and defence policy in this country, as it corresponds to our responsibility.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e6073	The next speaker is Mr Wabl. - Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e6106	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, Mr Mock is no longer there, because I would have liked to discuss a quote from Mr Mock, following the very high level remarks made by Mr Maitz. [[Call to the Freeman:Niveous press release from the House of Greens!]] [[Further calls.]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] I believe that, after the task of foreign policy by the Social Democrats, he is a very important part of Austrian neutrality policy and that Foreign Minister Schüssel has undermined a substantial amount of neutrality policy. The sentence that Mock quoted reads: "Might without right becomes tyranny, right without power becomes ridiculous." Ladies and gentlemen! This sentence has a lot of true in itself. There is no question at all that power is without right becoming tyranny. In this respect, I can only agree with Mr Mock clearly and clearly. Following this sentence, however, I ask you: What right do military alliances pursue? What international law follows Leaders of great nations who make a hegemonial claim on certain parts of the earth? – This is the crucial question we need to ask ourselves. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Peacekeeping is our goal!]] "Right without power will be ridiculous", Mr. Maitz. Many others also become ridiculous, but right without power becomes ridiculous, especially if there is no means of enforcement. I have believed that it is a consensus in this House that it could only be the concern of a rule of law, democracy or several democratic states to join forces in order to maintain common international law and to help it break through. Ladies and gentlemen! That is the crucial question. The question we now have to answer, Mr Maitz, is not how modern NATO is. NATO is a military alliance, even if you still add the "new" so often, even if they still think practically figuratively that this is the "overnew" NATO with "megaperls"; it forces war out and peace in. This is not the crucial question, Mr Maitz. The question is whether NATO is a military alliance, yes or no, and this question has been answered by the Federal Chancellor with a clear yes. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, in NATO there are not only wild militants and corruptionists, such as the predecessor of Mr Solana, who had to resign for corruption in connection with purchases of military equipment. There are military scandals and corruption scandals without number because the big brother is involved in drug mafia. This is known to be not a discussion today, even if the military complex plays an essential role in the alliance policy discussed in Europe and worldwide. The crucial question we have to answer here is another: What is the security system based on international law? Is this a military pact dominated by a very large country that has shown many positive but also many negative sides in its history? Is that what we are trying to do, Mr Maitz, Mr Mock, Mrs Gredler and all the others? Is this our new security philosophy that we join the strongest alliance of this continent, or is it not appropriate for a small democratic and rule-of-law country to join systems that strengthen international law that strengthens all that we do not have in this world? Mr Maitz! It is not the problem of Europe having too little military structures, it is not the problem of this earth, too little military potential, too few soldiers, too little military equipment to destroy people x-fold. That's not the problem! The problem is that justice becomes ridiculous without power, because those who exercise power do not comply with international law. Why is there the conflict between America and the UN? Why can a superpower determine who will be the next Secretary-General of the UN? Why is that so? Does this have to do with international law or with power that is not controlled by law? That is the crucial question. Therefore, in a small country with an excellent tradition since the Second World War, we are obliged to strengthen the international law and the power controlled by law. This is crucial and not the question of whether we continue to improve military structures. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is here again and again spoken of by Russia. Someone from your side, who probably has nothing more to talk about at the moment, your number two in the European election campaign, has meant that he is not in favour of Russia being integrated into NATO. But let's take this aside and focus on those people in your party who are serious about the subject. The question is, ladies and gentlemen: How is peace secured? You will agree that this is a comprehensive package. The military structure is the last means that can be used – after careful consideration. Mr Maitz! Every schilling, every dollar you put in a military device in this situation, is theft to the poor of our earth! You should be aware of that! That's our problem! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Never said otherwise!]] Ladies and gentlemen! You should face this in your song – that is not demagogy, that is reality, Mr Maitz – which means 24 interception hunters for the budget of our country, for a country in which people are told a savings package. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: This is demagogy!]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] That means 20 to 30 billion schilling of sour earned money. That's what it means, Mr Maitz! This means having less for many single parents and for many pensioners. And that's the problem you should explain to people! What does it mean, Mr Maitz, to buy combat tanks? [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: You want to get rid of it!]] Mr Maitz! No, I'm not talking about abolition. This is a vision which, of course, means not only a legitimate system but a correct one and a correct change for our policy. What does it mean to buy combat tanks? The Dutch are disarming due to OSCE and CSZE, and we are buying these tanks for plenty of 2 billion schilling. Is this your contribution to ensuring social peace? Is this your contribution to environmental safety? You are also talking about migration flows. In the Committee on National Defence, we must listen to the fact that the subconventional threat is very basic, essential and important. They will be the first to send armed units to the borders because people want and believe that they can find peace in Austria because of the ecological and social disasters across borders. Is it not more reasonable to invest all this money in securing peace? But not in the military field, with which our earth is fragrant, but in the social field, in the ecological field, in the field of development cooperation. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Maitz! Talk to the groups and NGOs involved in cooperation with the countries of Africa, South America and Asia, how much money they have. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: There we do more than you – as well as! We'll do more than you ever knew!]] Both? – Then look at the budget of Austria for this area. This is ridiculous compared to what you want to spend on armor! What about the wheel tanks? 550 more "Pandur" you have decided in the Council of State Defense, together with Mr Moser, together with the Social Democrats, together with Mr Scheibner and Mr Jung. What's that cost? – 5.5 billion schilling! Where are the decisions that exist analogously to your great peacekeeping? Mr Scheibner! Where are infrastructure improvements in these dimensions for the reform countries? There's not even a fraction of it for that. [[Abg. Scheibner: Surviving the economy!]] I'll give you the right. There is no security at zero rate. The question is: In which area do I put this money in? How do I take this money from? I tell you, these investments you want to make in the military area under the title of "minimal equipment"... [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: In a necessary minimum! What you mean here is irrational!]] Stop it! Mr Maitz, this is irrational! See, just as in the national field, security can also look like the following in the individual area: I feel threatened by Mr Schieder. What am I gonna do? I'll see if he's physically stronger than I am, maybe Kung-Fu will learn, maybe get me a knife, then I see he's got a knife, then I'll get myself a gun, then I see he's got a gun, then I'll get myself a machine gun. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Try it with the weapons of the Spirit!]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: That's impossible!]] Security is only increased by the weapons of the spirit and by the law jointly established, according to which the Lord takes note that I respect his life and he respects my life. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Mr. Schieder has a machine gun!]] There must be an overarching authority for this, which cannot simply be any superpower. And I do not mind, Mr Maitz, whether this superpower is Russia, the USA, Japan or China. I accept, as an Austrian representative, international law, which has been achieved through joint decisions of the international community and not by any leader in any Western or Eastern Hemispheres. Remember that, Mr Maitz! [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: What if they don't stick to it?]] Mr Maitz. In addition, you are not even prepared to say the truth about the cost of NATO accession. The American Congress has at least tried to calculate the total cost. The cost of NATO enlargement alone is about half the budget of Austria for the whole NATO area. I know that the American Congress is supposed to be crazy to say that Mr Haider is going to say that I should stop cheap anti-Americanism. It is not anti-Americanism, however, because I appreciate the American nation with its people who work there and provide scientific and human and social services. The question is again: What security system should be sought from a small neutral country? Their speech about the modern new NATO-Super-Megaperls military alliance, which is only more committed to peace, is a cheap, old instrument towards an ethically clear commitment in the sense of neutrality, and in the attempt to work with all other nations that are continuing to work in the neutral field, which are also trying to ban nuclear weapons from peace and security zones, to dilute them militaryly, and to use the money released for positive development cooperation in order to support a long-lasting peaceful development. What has brought about military intervention in Iraq, Panama, Somalia and Ethiopia? [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Bosnia!]] In Bosnia it was only when the country was already bleeding. That was the end, Mr Maitz! You should be aware of that. The military component has a right, but it is getting narrower and narrower, and we wish it would become very, very narrow, but the other area in which we can strengthen the social and environmental components of our societies is increasingly stronger and stronger. This is the task that we Greens have put to us and - I have the impression - also the Social Democrats and those in your group, Mr Maitz, who are really working on peace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e6345	The next speaker is Mr Gusenbauer. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking. Voluntary speaking time limit: 9 minutes. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that I have to interrupt the debate at 3 p.m. on the subject of questioning.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e6367	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am not the defender of Mr Mock's duty, but what he has said today about the FPÖ has a certain right. Mr Scheibner, if you are producing and saying that you were opposed to EU accession because Austria was poorly prepared for EU accession, and at the same time saying that we should now join NATO, the question arises: Do you think that Austria is better prepared to join NATO today than it was for EU accession in 1994? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The second point of the argument size: Mr Haider said that membership of NATO would result in more positive economic effects than accession to the EU. – Dear to me Ladies and gentlemen! Against the background of the figures on the table above the cost of this issue, this goes far beyond the net contributions from Austria to the European Union. And I'm wondering today how you're going to scratch the curve in the NATO question sometime. In one, two, three, four, five years You are probably the exact opposite of what you have said here today! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: That's what we'll look at!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I do not agree with Mr Spindelegger's thesis that neutrality is a term that no one wants to be so right anymore. In view of a popular desire with 350 000 signatures here in Parliament, it cannot be said that neutrality does not want anyone to be so right anymore. Moreover, there are very clear constitutional bases, and there is also the fact that in the course of the EU discussion everyone has said that accession to the European Union is not the task of neutrality. [[Abg. Scheibner: You said that, not all!]] That was also said by the Foreign Minister, Dr. Mock, at the time. Mr Schieder has explained why it is not appropriate to follow the text of popular desire. However, if Austria were to decide at some point not to want to be neutral, but to go into a military alliance – WEU and NATO are and remain clearly military alliances – to find democratically fair, to go through this issue of referendum, because, if one wants to make such a far-reaching decision, democratic consensus in the population is as necessary as it was in the case of EU accession. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If we are discussing security policy and talking about security in the large framework – in the European dimension – and are being debated in the context of NATO-Alt, NATO-Renewal debate, we should perhaps take a look at the debate that is currently being held. The old NATO has described the first Secretary General of NATO, Lord Ismay, once very striking and a little suffocating. He meant she was serving to keep the Russians outside, to keep the Americans inside, and to keep the Germans down. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Very good!]] – That was the old slogan that was used by NATO. The question is: Is this old NATO still present today, or is the new NATO something else? With great interest we understand that it is precisely in the USA – and we do not deceive ourselves, read all the comments in the Financial Times: the crucial force of NATO are the United States of America, without it going nothing, and only what they want in this NATO – a highly interesting discussion about NATO enlargement, in which different arguments are weighed. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Class enemy!]] Those who currently have the say in the administration are obviously based on three basic determinants of the NATO new. First: NATO is expected to remain internal and external as a stability factor for European security. Secondly, they assume that NATO should be a contribution to not leaving the new order of Central and Eastern Europe alone to the Germans, and thirdly, they assume that, if necessary, the funds of Pax Americana will also be used for the reorganisation of conflicts at European periphery – three well-discusionable theses. On the other hand, for example, the Doys of American Security Policy, George Kennen, in a notable contribution in the "New York Times", which is also available in German in the "time", meant that the expansion of NATO was the most serious mistake of American politics throughout the period after the cold war. Such a decision is expected to fuel the nationalist anti-Western and militarist tendencies in the public opinion of Russia and result in a negative development of Russian democracy, with all the negative consequences for East-West relations. – George F. Kennan, the Doyen of American Security Policy. And the thesis of Mr Haider, which he represented today, namely that it would be better to extend NATO as an EU enlargement, was also taken up by Professor Mandelbaum of John Hopkins University in the New York Times this week, who critically meant NATO, the Western Europeans wanted to throw the bones of NATO enlargement only to keep Eastern European countries away from the European Union. Under the title "NATO or Tomato", it is said that the Western Europeans want NATO enlargement only because they do not want to buy tomatoes from Eastern Europe in the future. And precisely these discussions are taking place in the USA today. If Mr Mock said that it is the sovereign right of every individual State to adopt its security policy autonomously, then it must be said that any NATO enlargement towards Russia would of course also have consequences. It would also be the right of the Russian Duma, for example, not to ratify the new restrictions in the field of nuclear equipment, just as there are other legitimate rights there. When considering safety on a larger scale, however, the question arises: Are these decisions leading to a more stable situation for us and for Europe as a whole – yes or no? I think that an unaccredited procedure in the context of this is more likely to reduce our security. What you are doing at the level of ideology production, saying that Austria is isolated from NATO as a result of non-membership, is absolutely ridiculous! A member of the United Nations, the European Union, the OECD, all international organisations except NATO and the WEU cannot by definition be isolated internationally. [[Abg. Scheibner: Security Political!]] Their proposals are not based on the need for security in Austria, but on the need for ideology production, political populism, which is not in the interests of peace and security in that country.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e6489	I am now interrupting the debate on item 1 and I will call on Question Time at 3 p.m. The sitting was suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 14.59 a.m. and resumed at 15.01 a.m.)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e6516	I will now resume the interrupted session. Short debate on Question Time 1657/AB
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e6545	We come to the brief debate on the question answered by the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs with the number 1657/AB. The above-mentioned answer has already been distributed, so that their reading by the scribe is not sufficient. We are therefore going into the debate. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 Rules of Procedure no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with the first speaker having a speaking time of a maximum of 10 minutes for reasons. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. I now ask Mr Mag. Stadler to open the debate as an applicant for the request. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e6580	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Federal Minister, we have called for the debate on this question to be answered, among other things, because it is objectively incorrect in some respects. I do not believe that you have, in any case, replied incorrectly to the House. But I assume that you probably still have no control over the company salad around ASAG, ASG, ÖSAG and the toll company. I have here a record of the OESAG Supervisory Board meeting of 13. Januaryen, and this protocol – my secretary and I really laughed at tears while studying this protocol – reads like a screenplay of a cabaret. Federal Minister! Unfortunately, however, it is a real satire that has contributed to the responsibility of your predecessor and in your own responsibilities, which is not uninteresting, because that is precisely what comes from making ministers' secretaries into Supervisory Board members and officials in public enterprises. This begins once by holding at this Supervisory Board meeting that the distribution system has been organised as follows: Among other things, Mr Federal Minister, those around 2 600 Trafiken, who also have the Lotto-Toto-Authorisation, have been included in the distribution system. Ladies and gentlemen! It was indeed a question of gambling for every vignette buyer, whether he would even get a vignette. This was a quite market-compliant solution at the beginning of the year, if you intend to make it a game. [[Abg. Ing. Meschberger: Only 6 out of 45!]] Yes, it was a wild gambling matter at first, whether you're getting a vignette at all. It was illuminating what the Lords did best here. A representative of the Supervisory Board said literally: The Austrian Mautgesellschaft was originally of the opinion that a sales bottleneck – which was objectively recognizable at the beginning of the year – could be bridged by less stringent controls at the beginning of the year. – In fact, however, the law does not allow this room, ladies and gentlemen! They said, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We know that there will be a distribution gap. Since the end of November it has been known that we made a company failure decision when we thought of our friends in Chicago with the order. But we have thought that this can be bridged by less stringent controls. – But they have not made the effort to determine whether this would be permitted under the law! Minister! But this is not the central point of our criticism. The central point of our criticism concerns your finding that the best bidders have come to pass in the production of these vignettes. Mr Federal Minister, this is objectively wrong! It is also objectively wrong that this ARGE, which is in fact under the leadership of a certain company called Swarco, which is merely by chance a Tyrolean company, as well as that Mr. Unterholzner, who is the brother of a former State Secretary, is a Tyrolean, the Alpine road company... [[Abg. That's very suspicious!]] Of course you can be Tyrolean. I'm half Tyrolean, too. That's not a shame. But I, ladies and gentlemen, do not serve my friends on commissions, as it happened in this case, with the reason that it is an Austrian company and it is the best bidder! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The fact is, Mr Federal Minister, that this company has its headquarters in Chicago, according to the Supervisory Board Protocol. I don't know how far Austria is, but up to Chicago, as much as I know, I don't know. At the latest since the last Vienna election we know that Chicago is not an Austrian city! Federal Minister! It is also wrong that this company is the best bidder. You know very well that this company, with 34.8 million schillings, has been significantly above the best bidder company with 33.2 million schillings. This is due to the fact that this company can guarantee the quality of the vignette, can guarantee fixed delivery times that it has the capacity to guarantee all that. And because all of this was so interesting, you also sent a ministerial official to far Chicago. Several other commissioned companies have also made several ordinary trips to Chicago. Therefore, one could not criticize this company more than it was when the debakel – or the disaster as stated in the protocol – was at hand. Federal Minister! Your answer is therefore objectively incorrect. It is not an Austrian company, but according to the Supervisory Board Protocol it is an American company. And it's not the best bidder, but, as I say, it's even the worst bidder who came to the train. I will also prove this to you on the basis of the Supervisory Board Protocol. It says about on page 15 of the Minutes – I may quote, Minister of State, perhaps believe You're a little preferable to gentlemen from the Supervisory Board – which is what the delivery times that were so crucial for the supplement to the company in Chicago were: "It is surprising that this was not highlighted, because this was the decision-making reason for the company in Chicago. At the time, the award was expressly not given to the affordable bidder company Forster in Waidhofen on the Ybbs, as it was shown that the production capacity of the Chicago company would provide a corresponding security. A quantity problem during the re-introduction had already been recognized as a possibility" – it was already recognized at that time! – "which required very short response periods for post-ordering. It is not possible to conclude a contract with a delivery period of fourteen days and not to respond accordingly to its non-compliance. In addition, however, the cause of the whole in the structure of the road companies should be sought." – Now they say, with themselves, in the structure is the cause to search! "In companies that have to work together, there are already communication problems", "all the more so in such companies that are in a competitive relationship with each other, as is the case with the ASAG or ÖSAG." [[Rejoicing with the Freemans]] Ladies and gentlemen! There's a competitive relationship. Are they talking about drivers, which driver is driving over the burner or which driver is driving over the eastern highways? That's the competitive relationship, so it couldn't go well. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: This is a cabaret!]] It's a wild cabaret! It is also said that damages must be claimed. The Federal Minister has said on our question that the costs of the damage incurred would, of course, be charged to the contractor, i.e. the company in Chicago. It is mentioned here in the Supervisory Board protocol: "With regard to claims for damages, there is a state of war with the suppliers. On the other hand, however, the problems must be dealt with in such a way as to continue to meet its supply obligations. This is not a simple situation, where it is necessary to proceed in a tactical manner, so that the supplies of vignettes do not suddenly fail at all." [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen, that's how it looks! [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: He lied to Parliament!]] Dear Holger, he does not know what is happening in this cabaret circus of a company union of party secretaries. "The problem is multicausal as in an aircraft crash. Originally, the gathering of many circumstances." – A truly illuminating realization! – "In retrospect, you can always talk easier and easier, and you have failed once the problems have arisen." – End of the quote. However, Mr Federal Minister, it will not be until now. That's what it says on page 18: "In November..." [[The red light on the speaker's coil begins to flash.]] Mr President, this cannot be the case with the lamp. I am not yet talking for 10 minutes. [[Contradict of President Dr. Brauneder.]] – Okay, then I come to a decisive, illuminating passage in the Minutes. I quote: "In November 1996, it was recognised that the adhesive of the film is very strong, and it must be feared that this could become a new public issue if the vignette is hard to disband from the disc." – Minister of State! Sale Next time you have slices and vignettes, then you have solved this problem as well. – "It must be feared that self-destruction technology works better than the adhesive and therefore remains on the disc, which can be easily removed. Therefore, the ÖMG should not order so much at once to give the producer the chance to improve the adhesive quality with its supplier again." And now comes the central sentence: "A Job Message has also been received: A driver reported to the ÖAMTC that he had bought a vignette, after the disk had been iced, the heating turned on, and the vignette fell." So first she picks so much that the disc breaks down, and now she falls down. "A colleague is already on his way to ORF on this issue. It is to be feared that there is another issue now that the vignette is dissolved early. The problem is to find a vignette that sticks at plus 90 ° Celsius, at minus 20° Celsius and at a hundred percent humidity on the windscreen as well as at 20 percent humidity which lasts a year." Federal Minister! In which climate zone is actually Your Supervisory Board? Can you give me a talk in Austria that meets these climatic conditions? I can tell you by means of a number of examples – but unfortunately time does not allow – that this is a legendary cultivation of incompetence, economic inability and complete secretarial thinking up to the friendly economy. It is not enough to disband a letterbox company, Mr. Federal Minister, as you did!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e6695	The final sentence, please, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e6711	It was suggested, Mr Federal Minister, that there are the even greater problems in road pricing, that you are even promised to have already gained experience. Federal Minister! They need enormous action, because the debacle of the next year is pre-programmed.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e6740	The Federal Minister is next reported. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e6761	Mr President. High house! I would like to answer the additional questions 1 to 12 raised by the applicant as follows: On questions 1, 4 and 5 on the reflection behaviour of the vignette: In the tender documents for the vignette, the following basic requirement for the property of the vignette was included – I quote –: "In the case of special materials, such as retro-reflecting foils et cetera, there must be a material approval or testing that allows the attachment to vehicles under traffic law." In an opinion given to me by the Institute of Light Engineering at the University of Karlsruhe, the manufacturer has shown that the Vignette has a return value of about one tenth of the value which could be a signal effect for other road users. This makes it clear that – I quote – it "cannot be considered as a lighting device". On questions 2, 3, 7 and 8, the Toll Order: The toll arrangement worked out by the ÖMG was made after the agreement with the Federal Minister for... – These are the answers to the additional questions put by Mr Rosenstingl today. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Mr. Federal Minister! You answered that in writing!]] I would like to comment on this. [[Abg. May. Stadler: There are no additional questions that have been asked!]] I have been asked questions put to me by Mr Rosenstingl. I will answer this. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Note the Rules of Procedure! It's not an emergency!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] [[Calls at ÖVP and SPÖ.]] These are the questions that are apparently to be discussed with me in this context. I cannot discuss with you, Mr Deputies, the minutes of a Supervisory Board meeting in which I did not take part. I can discuss with you the consequences of this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: We discuss a question answer!]] I am able, Mr President, to answer the questions which have been sent to me in writing and which have been sent to me in your core content over and over again... [[Abg. May. Stadler: Can you make those available to the High House? We don't have them!]] Didn't you send them? - Okay!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e6872	Federal Minister! You are speaking, and the nature of the answer is entirely your discretion. Please continue.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e6888	I would like to say once again to the discussion in which it is repeatedly said that the toll regulation has been adopted too late: ==References====External links==* Official website ==References====External links== Therefore, the toll regulation could not be discussed in time, not with the manufacturers and sellers, but with consumers. Well, I'll leave it. If there's no one interested in me answering these questions...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e6923	I would like to point out once again that the Federal Minister is speaking. How he answers questions lies entirely in his discretion. The honourable Members will be able to comment on this. I ask you to proceed, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e6939	Mr President. I will then make use of the fact that I will answer those two questions which Mr Stadler has specifically put, and refer to the rest of the questions that they can be asked to me at any time. On the first question concerning best bidders: As you and I know from the protocols, there have been several providers. According to the Bundesvergabeordnung, one has tried to evaluate a best bidder, which was not in my decision-making capacity. The company Swarco has been established as the best bidder, which is produced in a Chicago plant. I did not say anything else in the first answer to the question. Secondly, to the consequences: I have not only caused the resolution of the management company ÖMG, but I have also made it clear that there is a clear division of tasks between ASG and ÖSAG. In future, ÖSAG will be exclusively responsible for the Vignette, the ASG for the preparatory work on road pricing, so that the differences between the two managements and between the two companies are removed from the protocol. Third point: In a longer-term perspective: Whatever is to be assessed in the course of the proceedings is currently examined by an audit of the Court of Auditors. I have no reason to go ahead with this examination, therefore, I do not feel that the best bidder should be identified. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e6980	Mr Stadler has spoken on an actual amendment. The Rules of Procedure are known. 2 minutes speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e7004	Federal Minister! High house! You have just claimed that you had no influence on the award to the Chicago company, respectfully your ministry; They were not ministers at the time. This is wrong! On the contrary, it is true that the Austrian toll company was a letterbox company determined by a steering body that has held a total of seventeen times. In addition to representatives of the ÖSAG, the Ministry of Economic Affairs was represented in this governing body, and there all decisions were agreed, i.e. also with the agreement of the representative of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, in particular the fact that the ÖSAG had made the tendering of the contract and the ASAG had made the award of the contract to the Chicago company. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Aha! Bullshit!]] This was carried out with the agreement of the Ministry of Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e7040	The next speech is by Mr Rosenstingl. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e7070	High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It is quite typical of what happened when the motorway vignette was completed. Mr Federal Minister, it is really unfortunate that you in the House are working so badly with cooperation and coordination: Your employees seem to have prepared some explanatory comments on my request, which I have written, for today's day, and you do not even know that this is not from me, but from your people, and now you say I would have asked additional questions which you would like to answer. [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] I'll tell you: I have not asked any additional questions today. Today, we have only asked for a discussion of the answers to the questions contained in my written question, but have not asked any additional question. It would be useful, Mr Federal Minister, for you, if you come to this House, to prepare properly in order to be able to speak on the subject and to take our questions seriously. What you're doing, your insanity, is really an insult to this house! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: No polemics from the speaker's desk!]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is perhaps indifferent to you from the ÖVP that Austria was made ridiculous. I know why: With your government policy, you do much to make Austria ridiculous abroad. It is therefore indifferent to you that Austria was made ridiculous by this vignette scandal. Mrs. Colleague! You, as President of the Chamber of Commerce, may also be indifferent to the fact that this Vignette scandal has led tourism to suffer because you are all indifferent. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The only thing you still value is your posts in the government, that you stay in there, that you can distribute beautifully. They keep making one sense after another. But we'll always show it! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Call to the liberals:Yes!]] Federal Minister! What you have now answered to an alleged supplementary question I have not even asked was already incorrect. They have claimed that the toll regulation does not go to the manufacturer. Federal Minister! I'd ask you: Read § 4 para. 1 of the Federal Road Finance Act, you will be able to take note, as we all know, of the fact that what applies to road pricing applies in the meantime, of course, analogously also to the vignette invitation to tender. They are obliged to draw up the toll order and also to announce the nature of the vignette. You didn't do that, however, because you didn't do the toll order until 2 October. The Council adopted a decision on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Moldova on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Economic Community and ==References== December, I think she was then published. That is, the sale of the toll pickerl took place until then in a lawless space. That may have been a reason why it came to this chaos. There was a much earlier decision on the law. You write in your answer: Unfortunately, we have not had time to adopt a toll order in many months. Federal Minister! This has nothing to do with a time problem, but it has to do with inability. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If, within many months, I am unable to adopt the rules of procedure, this is not a time problem, it is a problem of competence in this area. Federal Minister! I would be interested in how you want to achieve the introduction of the road pricing, which we reject from the liberals, if you are to do the same people who are responsible for the introduction of the vignette. Federal Minister! No, thank you, I don't want to experience that in Austria! I refuse and we liberals reject the road pricing. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: Is this even the subject of the request?]] – Mrs Colleague, please read the question. She also deals with road pricing. Don't make any call if you don't know what's in the request! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: You always say you didn't ask anything!]] Federal Minister! We also reject the road pricing because we want to protect the drivers, because we do not want to allow you, because of your lack of budget policy, to be enormously burdened by drivers with 50 sizes per kilometer. Federal Minister! One could – unfortunately at an AB meeting the time is far too short – continue to carry out what was still going on in the cabaret. Finally, I should like to refer to the Supervisory Board Protocol, to the findings made by the High Supervisory Boards and to which you are also responsible. It is said as a summary that not only the victory but also the defeat has many fathers.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e7195	The final sentence, please, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e7211	Among other things, point 5: One will continue to talk about this problem. Federal Minister! Stop talking, make someone else responsible for it, you are certainly not able to solve these problems.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e7243	The next item is the speech by Mr Schwamlein. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e7264	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! It is an undisputed right of the liberals to ask for a question answer here. I do not know, however, how far you have noticed what signals were sent during this meeting. The first signal was that Mr Stadler was talking to his group. I was sitting in my place full of expectation and I thought it would be good if someone asked for an answer, and I therefore take note of the new questions and things raised by Mr Stadler. That's what I'm talking about: Stadler – nothing. Nothing new came from him. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Go!]] I wrote to my colleague Rosenstingl: Nothing new from colleague Rosenstingl. Ladies and gentlemen! Let's just say, in principle...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e7303	The honourable Member, Mrs Schwemlein, is speaking, and I would ask you to pay attention to the choice of words in the interlocutory calls as well as to the speaker's desk. Ladies and gentlemen, please continue.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e7321	Thanks a lot. Ladies and gentlemen! Discussing the problem with the vignette is legitimate, is all right, has also taken place. But I think, Minister of State, we should consider whether it is useful to entrust those persons or those who have regulated the vignette to the introduction of road pricing. There, I think, you did not make a good recommendation. Ladies and gentlemen! We have therefore introduced the vignette because we wanted to move a step further towards cost-truth. No doubt there have been problems with the vignette. We should, however, consider them from the point of view that this will increase the level of justice between individual transport and public transport. [[Abg. Haigermoser: You should give this speech to the counterparts in the Pinzgau!]] In addition, it is a crucial step that we do not submit to lobbyism, because it is important and essential for Austria to take care of its very sensitive zones, and for us to be entitled to make use of the Vignette in order to ensure environmental protection in Austria. I would like to maintain the following because I believe that it is one of the last positive messages or the trigger for many positive messages: Federal Minister! I think it is very good that there are improvements, especially improvements for the tourism industry. It is the highest foregoneness, ladies and gentlemen, if anyone argues that the number of nights would have gone down due to the vignette. That's just wrong, that's not true! [[Abg. Haigermoser: No!]] The resolution of the vignette was very likely a problem, but its introduction did not lead to a reduction in the number of nights spent. I would like to inform you, ladies and gentlemen, that: We are very sure that there will be an exemption for the disabled in the future, and above all, we will achieve what is very important in terms of the upcoming holidays that our holiday guests will not continue to exercise the rigid rule of being relaxed. So seen, Minister of State, you can say: You still scratched the curve and found a solution that is certainly reasonable. But I believe that it must be our primary goal to get away from the vignette to a road pricing, because only road pricing will allow us to achieve justice within the modes of transport.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e7386	The next speech is by Mr Dr. King before. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e7408	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! – Mr Klubobmann Stadler! It is a bit strange for a clubman when he asks for a meeting of a question response and then says nothing at all about the questions that were allegedly not answered, but here he withdraws a theatre and at the same time criticizes the Minister if he does what the liberals have called for in writing, namely to stick to the questions that Rosenstingl has asked. This is really a very strange behavior of a clubman! – Listen, I only have 5 minutes of speech! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Novotny.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: It was wrong what the Minister replied! I don't think so.]] You have also had every reason to say something else, because the two essential claims in your request were: First of all, the toll pickerl would not comply with the driving law and should therefore be challenged during the annual review due to the return effect. The Minister has answered to you that this has even been clarified by an opinion from Karlsruhe. So the answer to the question was okay. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Hallelujah!]] They also claim that the best bidder was not the best bidder. It's not about the cheapest bidder, it's about the best bidder. The Minister told you that he had commissioned the Court of Auditors in this regard. What else do you want? Are you responsible for the responsibility of the companies that are independent, have a board of directors, have a Supervisory Board and are responsible for their decisions? What are you in a rule of law for? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: This speech is not worthy of you! You know better!]] It is really true that the Austrians have to pay toll everywhere except from Germany, and it is only right and cheap that the foreigners with us also pay toll on the motorways. The pickerl solution is a simple and practicable solution, apart from the childhood diseases that have undoubtedly existed. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] – No, don’t just move away! Mr Haigermoser! Go to Bavaria, Prime Minister Stoiber said: We must do so to the Austrians, because the Germans too realize that the Vignette is an adequate solution to participation in the cost of the motorways. The EU, which has been said to do so, has also acknowledged this. So, please, we do not attack Austria and we do not say that the foreigners would be right if they did not come because Austria only wants to drain. That's not the case. A little more Austrian attitude in this context would be appropriate! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser:... Chicago!]] Especially you should not talk about Chicago. They even bought in Chicago an EU member who is not visible in the EU. So please don't talk about it! That's really the last one. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Do not frustrate falsehoods!]] Either they were best bidders – then it was all right. Or they were not – then the Court of Auditors will find that. You should confess to the Court of Auditors because it is a parliamentary body. The pickerl solution is undoubtedly the most economical and simple form of motivating the motorways, and the current flexible solution is very, very positive from that in Switzerland. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] - That's unpleasant for you. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That amuses me!]] In Switzerland you have to pay the annual toll for a trip. That's how the actual conditions look. They should adhere more to the truth and to reality than merely to spread propaganda and conceptions.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e7548	The request put forward earlier by Mr Rosenstingl, which the National Council may not take note of the reply to the question, is under negotiation. Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Barmüller. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e7572	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As Mr King has also discovered patriotism, I would rather turn to Mr Schwemlein, for he has a lot to say about. Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to They know precisely that the Vignette has not been introduced for environmental reasons, but that the Federal Government will be able to get the ASFINAG out of the budget with its 70 billion schilling debts and these will no longer be included in the debt to be borne by Maastricht. That's the real reason. Then: Only if the ASFINAG has such independent revenue – and it cannot be covered by taxes by 50 or more percent – can you take it out of the budget. That was the real reason to introduce the vignette, and no other. I wanted to hold this very clearly, because this also makes the following clear: The budgetary policy of this Federal Government has failed. In many areas, for example in the area of the Vignette, Mr Schwamlein, she is now going through the Austrians. Only: It won't be said, it won't be admitted! - That's the one area. Ladies and gentlemen! Today it has been said - and you, Mr Schwemlein, have also said this - that there must be a road pricing because this would be an ecological measure. It must be remembered that, so far, all environmental measures have been used by the Federal Government exclusively for budget recovery. But you didn't even succeed! But You sold it this way. This argument has also been miscredited, Mr Schwemmlein, and this will be a problem for future tax reform. Or how do you explain, Mr deputies, that the person responsible for the invitation to tender for the Vignette should also be responsible for the introduction of road pricing in Austria? Can it be a responsible approach by Mr Farnleitner, if one has already seen in this one smaller measure what difficulties there are in making a pure investment volume solely responsible for the introduction of the road pricing of around 4 billion Schilling the same person? I'll tell you: This too is wrong. That is something that we should not go through, but rather rather prevent. The Liberals have said this very clearly. We want a tax reform for ecological reasons, Mr Schwemmlein, but we are not prepared to make the wall for you if we simply propose a reason that no one really wants to comply with in this Federal Government. You also know, Mr Schwemlein, that large-scale tests have been made in Germany with road pricing and that the Germans have clearly and clearly said that this is not feasible for passenger transport. They know that 50 000 failures a year and so many procedures can be expected only for the south-east tangents with a capacity of 99.9%. Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to It may not seem important to you, but you have not taken into account both in the vignette and in this context, that we have to fight with high bureaucratic conditions and that this is therefore the wrong way. Ladies and gentlemen! It is interesting to note that in terms of public administration and private entrepreneurs it is obvious that there are two levels of measurement. In any case, the Federal Minister – he is currently a little distracted by Mrs Tichy-Schreder – in his reply to the question that it was a very short time for this toll to be produced. He's talking about six months. I should just like to remind you, Minister of State, ladies and gentlemen of the coalition parties, that you even agree with retroactive rules on private entrepreneurs. That's something you decide with ease. But when it comes to the fact that someone who comes out of the chamber has something to do, then six months at a time are not enough. This is something, Mrs Tichy-Schreder, which is seen all over the world. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: Mr Mag. Barmüller! There have been restrictions on the part of the EU!]] – I am still a bit very important, Mrs Tichy-Schreder, and I only have a minute’s speaking time, so I have to confine myself to it now: The chaos, which has been executed during the sale of the vignettes, has caused massive damage to the reputation of Austria. You know that. The only happiness for the Federal Minister is that this is not to be included in clear figures, otherwise he would no longer be sitting here as the Federal Minister. But we know. - That's the one point. The second point, ladies and gentlemen, concerns the duration of the pickle. I am pleased that representatives of tourism have apparently succeeded in creating a slightly more flexible solution. It was obviously not possible for the Federal Minister to say from the beginning that it could be left to each individual to devalue the vignette. This would not have caused any damage to tourism in Austria, and it would have enabled those who wanted to make a short break with us to do so themselves. Everyone in the private sector would have thought so. Only: If it is a socially agreed compromise, it will obviously not be implemented. Ladies and gentlemen! The third point I would like to address...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e7601	The third point should be the final point, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e7616	The third point, which is at the same time my final point, Mr President: It is about the fact that tour operators who have buses should be given the opportunity not to have to buy a vignette for every bus, but to get a change vignette. This would be easy to introduce and would make sense in the sense of the economy. Federal Minister! Do it! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e7646	The next item is the speech by Mr Anschober. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e7668	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I have been an enthusiastic listener of Ö 3 for two months, especially the Ö 3 morning wake. Every day the "Vignette Man" appears there, even more often than in this Parliament! Today I have waited a long time, and it has become a very bad morning: Today the "Vignette-Man" has not appeared, he has disappeared. [[Abg. Dr. Fuhrmann: Because he didn't find the way!]] Right, because he didn't find the way. [[Calls.]] Here there are many listeners and listeners of Ö 3, I notice. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Here we have a parallel to this meeting of a question answer: On Ö 3 today the "Vignette-Man" has disappeared, and at the colleague Stadler the news has disappeared, and they have not occurred. Mr Stadler! What you've told us is really snow from the day before. We have been discussing the same subject in this House for two months – perhaps your attention has been lost. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Do you have the protocol?]] – I say something completely different to you; listen! – With a two-month delay, jump on a long-distance train. You, Mr Stadler, are certainly not up-to-date with this debate, because you lack any topicality. [[Abg. May. Stadler: We have given you the opportunity to show you today that you are the greatest!]] Mr Stadler! Perhaps you have missed the fact that the Greens have discovered that in this vignette there is the complete supply chaos, that there are huge material problems, that there are concerns in the awarding and huge losses. At least two-digit million-height losses can be fixed. These were already confirmed by the Financial Procuratorate and definitely publicly presented. Mr Stadler, I must say to you: If you were more often at the meetings of the House, you would know that the Supervisory Board protocols have long been presented and publicly presented in this House. That's nothing new! This is from yesterday, Mr Stadler. [[Abg. May. Stadler: I'm here more often than you are! I'm here all the time! In part, they are not even represented in the committees! That's incredible! There are no greens at all at committee meetings!]] At the initiative of the Greens, there has long been a need for organisational reform. I think this is right, for a right step in the right direction. There is still a lot to go on, but we have a trend in this direction. Secondly, we have maintained that there are repair efforts. I think that what was realized yesterday is also a step in the right direction. And thirdly, we have maintained that there is an audit of the Court of Auditors. Mr Stadler, even you should have the courage to let this House's control body work and then recognize what comes out of the examination. Then we see black on white what consequences, what political responsibility there is and what the point is. Another thing to add: The entire organisational structure, the entire preparation, the entire package of measures, the whole question of the toll management company was fixed by the predecessors of the Minister Farnleitner. Mr Farnleitner here, he's poking out a soup that broke into a bowl and ditz. There we will also address this question on the basis of the Court of Auditors' report. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Stadler! They are not at the level of the debate for one more reason: The real chaos is no longer taking place at the Vignette, but already in the preparation of the road pricing. Now comes a massive accusation: We have a federal government that last spring has passed a Federal Road Financing Act with the votes of the SPÖ and ÖVP delegates, and now there is a party which openly rejects an essential point of this Federal Road Financing Act, namely the introduction of road pricing; there is such a statement by the Transport Speaker of the ÖVP and such a statement by the Vice-President of last week here at the Special Session. Minister Farnleitner! With all fairness, I would expect you to give us an answer to the question today – this can also be in the discussion on agenda items 4 to 7 where we will deal with similar issues –: What about the ÖVP now? If the ÖVP is still in the Federal Road Finance Act, will the ÖVP introduce road pricing? If no, as Kukacka and Schüssel have already explained, how exactly do these politicians want to finance the road construction projects that their countries demand? I would ask that there be further clarification in this plenary session, because I think it is a strange situation if a party, namely the Austrian People's Party, opposes a law adopted by it...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e7742	The final sentence, please, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e7760	... and against its own Minister of Economic Affairs is making the mood and political position. There's a need for a reconnaissance! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e7790	No one is reported in the word anymore. That concludes the debate. We come to the vote on Mr Rosenstingl's request not to take note of the answer to the question. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of not knowing a sign to this effect. – This is the minority. This request is therefore rejected. The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e7826	I now take the negotiations on the 1. Agenda item again. Mr Jung's speech is available. Please, honourable Member. A voluntary time limit of 8 minutes is shown.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e7851	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! From the Pickerl scandal back to the security-political mess that prevails with us in the Republic. I should like to refer to Mr Wabl's theatre donor, whom he delivered in his appearance before this interruption, and which would in many respects be contradicted. However, in one area I agree with him – it's a pity that he's not here now; I don't know if he's taking this away from me, I can only assure him –: He said that he hoped that the military sector would play an ever smaller role in security policy, and he wished that one day it would be very narrow. I share your wish, Mr Wabl. The difference in our view, however, is: I'm afraid we're not ready yet. Mr Wabl then also told colleagues...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e7877	I would ask you to listen to the honourable Member or to reduce the noise level accordingly.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e7893	In Austria one must be accustomed to the fact that security policy is not a very relevant issue. You like to go over it. It's unpleasant, too. That's the way it is now. Mr Wabl then also brought the example of Mr Schieder with the knife and the gun, meaning that it would be better to agree peacefully and comply with the laws. I'm going to make a contribution to him, too. But what does he – and not now, Mr. Arbitrator – do if, for example, he does not comply with this regulation and uses the knife? That is the problem, and that is why we also need a military component in security policy. Because when it comes to it, in case of doubt, I prefer to have a partner on my side who helps me to weigh it up. Now on security policy in Austria: How "heavy" this issue is – I do not want to devalue the Secretary of State here – can be seen at the occupation of the government bank: no foreign minister, no defence minister, no chancellor. They are not interested in security policy at all – or they may be afraid that some specific questions might have to be answered at some point in time. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Mr. Jung! The Foreign Minister is sick!]] To you, Mr Khol, I will come to speak. Many of us saw last Sunday the show "On the Matter" and I would like to say that the sad appearance of colleagues Khol and Arbitrators experienced. In the "Presse" Andreas Unterberger wrote about it, under the distinctive title – no, not the "Blitzgneißer", which is from the "Kaisermühlen-Blues" – "Die Langsamdenker". I quote: "However, anything other than a progress towards clarity is the wound content positions taken by the government parties. The more often they are heard, the more clear the extent to which the government line of tactics and fear is determined: How do I tell my child?" This fear is really what determines the leitmotiv of our rulers – or should not be said better: the driven one. Indeed, the EU states – and you all know that, every time we visit, we listen to it again – are putting pressure on Austria. And the fairy tale that we can remain neutral in the EU with a common security policy as Austrians is falling apart and keeps reality just as little as the fairy tale of anonymous savings books, the retention of schilling or the guaranteed pensions. They are afraid to tell the Austrians that while neutrality was once an effective means of preserving and, above all, recovering our sovereignty and the release of the occupation powers, it was quickly abused in order to favour the Austrians, a declaration of neutrality alone would give security. In fact, we were never really neutral, not according to the pattern of Switzerland. We were not politically neutral and were not at all militaryly neutral, because we were unable to do so. The German army was never able to fulfill this task, which was actually done to it. This was clearly recognized by Mr Kostelka when he said after the collapse of the Warsaw Pact: Now the federal army is once able to fulfill its mission. They have thus pre-accelerated to the citizens of this country, which, admittedly, was gladly accepted. However, until the end of the Warsaw Pact, our freedom was guaranteed only by the interests which NATO logically had in our area, which is why it has guaranteed our security. We were – and the gentlemen of the government party don't like to hear that – just safety-political drivers. But now it's over, one doesn't leave us anymore, one doesn't even allow us to go to the WEU to save us the "evil" NATO. I understand the soul pain of the eighty-eighties in the SPÖ, who used to demonstrate against NATO and "Ho Ho Tshi Minh!" I called you. However, they will not be saved as much as the ÖVP, at last to say clearly how they hold it with Austrian security policy. It's still being hesitated and co-chained: In the NATO. – Perhaps if, as our conditions assume, it takes out Article 5 – its core – the obligation to assist. Yes, Mr Arbitrator, do you really believe that they have only waited for us to come now and make rules for them to make their contracts, we, the outsiders who sit in the last row? – Mr Scheibner has already said it today. In addition to that, it would be a hairthirsty nonsense if we, as a more exposed state, wanted to give up this duty of assistance, because when it comes to hazards, perhaps Spain is less at risk in the future, and the danger of having to help Spain is less than the other way round. In addition, we can only do what you all the time call for in this way, namely the division of work in the alliance, in order to save us at least part of the costs in this way. "Austria is neutral and Austria remains neutral," said Kostelka on 20 June. 9. 1996 in this House. And Mr Schieder wished the President-in-Office of the Federal Republic of Germany in error, who said that neutrality did not stand up to the change and forced Austria to consider new things. We are in the process of putting forward these new considerations, contrary to your opinion, Mr President. Wake up, Mr. Arbitrator! Join us and work on these new considerations in the interests of Austria! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] However, this is certainly not possible by simultaneously constructing a neutrality reduced to the core as an emergency aid. It's not about waiting for NATO to develop, it's not about waiting for the direction of the car. We want to be able to talk! We want to be able to decide! This only happens when we're inside and not when we watch and wait what they're doing to us. Then the same happens to us as in the EU: Without If and But we're inside. Just a bit of neutrality, as you would like – it will not go. In addition, you have prepared a government template – and I think it is dangerous what is going on here – about a law of sending in the constitutional order, which we will be discussing the day after tomorrow. With this you want to eliminate the neutrality secretly, quietly and quietly, so to speak, through the back door. I think that's very unfair! They thus allow the membership of the alliance in every alliance, allowing the use of weapons to fight, to the armed war – and that with a law in the constitutional rank that would repeal the Neutrality Law! That's not how you can argue with us! We believe that the Austrians are able to see what is happening to them. We must hold this debate with them because they are ready enough to be informed about it. They should be informed of all of us. We are ready to do this together with you – but not in the form of a mogel pack! The Austrians are putting up with the truth and do not need any stories à la Fassleven that neutrality does not cost anything, although the Minister is on his desk, which part costs are at least already ahead. [[Abg. Arbitrators: You know what's on his desk?]] We must first determine what we want, and only then can we derive the consequences from it has the Minister said Fassleven. [[Abg. Arbitrator: Does that mean you know what's on his desk?]] I assume that he reads what comes in so much information. [[Abg. Arbitrators: So you know what's on his desk!]] What's on the desk, not, but I assume he's informed, and I hope he's well-informed.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e8004	The final sentence, please, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e8019	Again: Minister Fassleven said: We must determine what we want, and only then can we derive the consequences from it! I agree. But when do you know what you want? They do not agree themselves and within the parties either. Finally, take action! Do something in the interest of Austria! It is not five minutes before twelve, it is five minutes after twelve on the question of the membership of the alliance.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e8049	Next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Karlsson.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e8071	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! I am very glad that you are here, and I would also like to say that the Foreign Minister, both in the Subcommittee and in the Committee, has spoken and answered the honourable Member. I do not think you are less than my predecessor. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It would now be tempting for me to spread about the meagre arguments of my predecessor or about the arguments of the FPÖ at all, which says – and my previous speaker said again – that the Austrian neutrality would have been safe only under the protection of NATO, but if NATO were to expand, this would lead to uncertainty for us. [[Abg. Scheibner: How did you get this now?]] So this absurd logic must be explained once. It follows from the fact that we have to upgrade, because then NATO is all around us, which has so far been supposed to protect us. [[Abg. Scheibner: You have a very selective perceptiveness!]] She's the dangerous one that brings uncertainty to us. I do not want to continue to deal with this meagre argument, but because the word of the eighties has fallen: I was contrary to Mr. Haider and Co. and some who were not even politically interested at the time and only in very right circles... [[Abg. Scheibner: Do you also have "Ho Tji Minh!" yelling?]] Mr Scheibner, you were supposedly unemployed. I was on the road and I demonstrated for the freedom of Czechoslovakia, I demonstrated against the Russian tanks, I demonstrated that Czech spring can spread! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I'm also proud of it, and you can beg me a hundred times "eighty-eight," I don't care! [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Mrs. Colleague, do you want to devalue the sixty-eight now?]] But I have another problem – it is a matter of fact that concerns me, but is not addressed by the superficial populists at all –: The Foreign Minister has said in the Committee – and Mr Khol has repeated this on television too – that there are no wars in Europe, there will never be a threat that there will be no armed conflict. This is only partly correct within the EU, because – we have had a historic case – there are still EU Member States that have territories outside Europe, so-called overseas territories, in a variety of constructions and dangers. The Falkland-Malvinas conflict has made this very problem clear and has shown exactly when neutrality can very well have a very direct meaning, namely at the time when we are not forced to carry out old colonial conflicts with assistance, but can be very neutral. At the time, Ireland also acted neutrally in this conflict, which, for example, affected sanctions against Argentina. There's now to explain: What does compulsory assistance mean? How will Austria be able to behave? Last argument: It has become very silent about the joint initiative of the Neutrals in the EU. However, I believe that precisely with those aspects which are very sensitive to security policy here, this joint initiative by the Neutrals should be brought into the negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e8160	The next speaker is Mr Dkfm. Bauer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e8181	High house! Mrs. State Secretary! I tabled a motion for a resolution on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats in the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. The Federal Government may undergo an in-depth examination of the question of a full membership of Austria at the WEU. . At the time, you rejected this request together. Now, Mr President, two years later, you are here, too, because we have a motion for a resolution tabled by Members of Parliament, who are estrangers and Spindelegger, i.e. the government coalition, which includes more or less completely the same word: "The Federal Government is invited to undergo a comprehensive examination of the question of a full membership of Austria in the WEU." [[Abg. Scheibner: Good writing!]] – You're slow to come! Slow down, late you're coming, but you're coming! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Gaál: Well thought up!]] Yes, yes, I'll tell you something, Mr. Cot. I'll tell you at what price. Think about it for so long. I have had a request to present here about a year ago, which the Federal Government has called on to check to what extent Austria's membership of NATO is objective and appropriate. – You – once again together – have rejected this too. We'll be back today... [[Abg. Arbitrators: You won't understand it better today!]] You can correct this today, Mr. Schieder. Today, we have made such a request again here in the House, and I suppose I am afraid that you will reject it again today, just like a year ago. I am equally convinced, however, that in about a further year, in a maximum of two years, you will again be the biggest in this respect, and then in a year, in two years, you will be writing down your request for freedom and you will make it your own, because you will have to recognize, recognize – that is not a great intellectual and political achievement – that a full membership of the WEU, which you are now examining, will ultimately run out of NATO membership, because a full membership of the WEU with a membership of NATO is largely identical and must be. And now, Mr President, to your conclusion that you are going slowly, indignantly and considerately. But you know, this consideration and this slow and hesitant process has the price that we will not be able to co-shape the "NATO-New" and not be able to make a decisive contribution. This is also about the economic price associated with it, because there are infrastructures that are being built, there are compatible weapons systems that are purchased, et cetera pp. We will also pay an economic price for this hesitant attitude. But above all, we will also have the now newly created political structures of the "NATO-Neu" simple and easy to take over. The reason for your showing this attitude has already been explained several times today – I agree –: It is ultimately true that, for political reasons, for cowardice of the truth, you simply want to stick to the fiction that neutrality can be maintained, because of the inability of this federal government to act. That is why you say and say – and this resolution, which is before us today – that neutrality is compatible with full participation in the EU's common foreign and security policy. The interested and informed public is waiting for how long you will remember this comic elegance to continue this unbelievable elegance to the damage of Austria. I am pleased that my group, my party, is once again one, two, three steps ahead of you on this question.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e8252	Mr Moser is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Time remaining: 2.5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e8273	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to address the motions for resolutions tabled very briefly in the time available to me. I do not wish to reply to the positions of the Greens in particular about the Western European Union. I should just like to ask Mrs Kammerlander to speak at least about the existing institutions and also about the possibilities given by the Western European Union, because, as she said, it does not correspond to the facts. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that it is necessary to call on the Federal Government to present to this House the Treaties and the Treaties which have been concluded in the meantime with NATO or with the Western European Union. This would not only be a matter of good tone, but also useful and necessary in order to be able to conduct a fair, comprehensive and objectively well-founded discussion about the future perspective of Austrian security policy. In this area, there must be no advance in information from the Federal Government towards Parliament, but it will be necessary for Parliament to have the same information as the Federal Government. That is why we want to agree to this request. On the two requests from the Group of the European Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Party: Ladies and gentlemen! I really think it is sensible and necessary to take the step of the European dimension first, that is to start with negotiations with the Western European Union, as we have proposed. I know, Mr Scheibner, that we are not getting around the question of membership in NATO, but it would be useful to start negotiations with the Western European Union first and then, if this is a requirement to enter into negotiations with NATO. Ladies and gentlemen! With regard to the second request, the application concerning the submission of the Associated Status for the members of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly – we will not agree to this request – no competence is given to the Federal Government. It is our autonomous decision, that is, Parliament's decision to refer to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, and it is up to the North Atlantic Assembly and the Rules of Procedure of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly that the Standing Committee may decide by a three-quarters majority to invite a Member State which is not a member of NATO Alliance. That means we get an invitation, but we should say that we are interested in it. On the one hand, it is not in the government's decision to make this, but it is our autonomous decision, that is, Parliament's decision, and on the other hand we need an invitation to do so. It is therefore not possible, for reasons of fact, to give these two motions for resolutions the consent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e8321	No one is reported in the word anymore. That concludes the debate. There is no final word from the rapporteur. We are now entering the voting procedure, and I would ask you to take the places. We first come to the vote on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report 592 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is the majority. The request was accepted. (E 43.) We shall also vote on the Committee's request to take note of its report 592 of the additions to the text of popular desire. If necessary, I would ask for a sign of approval. – This is the majority. The request was accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the Committee's request to take note of its report 592 of the additions to the motion for a resolution 110/A(E). I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. The request was accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Doris Kammerlanderand comrades concerning the transmission of non-neutral State contracts with NATO and WEU to Parliament. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Scheibner and Mr Comrades on the rapid start of accession negotiations with NATO and WEU. In the event of your consent, I ask you for a sign to be given. – This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Scheibner and Mr Comrades on the achievement of the status of an associate member in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly for Austria. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. 2. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on Popular Desire (171 of the Supplements) on the establishment of a Federal Animal Protection Act (603 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e8449	Ladies and gentlemen! We're coming to the 2nd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. I call Mr Kostelka. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e8476	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Some one and a half years ago, a popular desire was made to create a Federal Animal Protection Act, which has experienced a very remarkable, yes, outstanding support from 460,000 Austrians. And indeed, this concern is not only a valuable one, but a highly urgent one, because in animal welfare there is indeed a lot in the bad. We have a very different legal situation in this regard. We have carried out a great hearing in the course of the consultation of this popular desire, in which the famous scientist Festetics has described to us exactly how great the geographical "knowledge" of animals in Austria would have to be in order to preserve their rights, and how reluctant this different regulation is indeed. 460 000 declarations of support require that we deal with this matter very thoroughly, very thoroughly, very openly, and also very honestly. On the basis of the previous discussions, I can only say that the creation of a federal animal protection law is a command of time. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I call on all the political groups in this House to continue in the Committee with us to conclude the work on such a Federal Animal Protection Act and to bring about a corresponding decision by the National Council in the foreseeable future, which is still this year. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I do so because, as a result of the previous discussions in the Committee and the Subcommittee, it is clear that animal welfare does not conflict with federalism. Switzerland, ladies and gentlemen, is certainly not a centralistically organized state, and if Switzerland has completed about ten years ago to abandon the competences for animal welfare from the cantons to the federalist Austria, this will probably also be good for federalist Austria. He will not break a federalist sack out of the crown. But that's not all. The discussions in the Subcommittee have also shown that it is not only a question of the humanitarian attitude, of respect for the living animal, of creating such a federal animal protection competence and, moreover, an implementing law, a federal animal protection law, but also a question of economic reason. In Austria, there are more organic farmers than in the rest of the EU agricultural area as a whole, and these organic farmers are already producing meat according to regulations that comply with the so-called animal justice index. In our opinion, this animal justice index should be the basis of a Federal Animal Protection Act. In this context, it must be demonstrated that there is not only a more animal-righteous solution but also a more economical one by getting better meat and higher meat prices through an animal-friendly attitude. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, the Committee cannot present a positive outcome of its work, since only four political groups in this House are in favour of the creation of a Federal Animal Protection Act, but for a number of reasons we also want and must include the fifth group. I therefore believe that we should jointly carry out the final assessment of our draft and the other texts discussed in the Committee and work step by step at the concreteisation of such a Federal Animal Protection Act. I am convinced that the power of arguments – as in Switzerland – will ultimately convince in Austria and that non-small-cared party political perspectives, on any side, will prevail. I should like to thank the initiators, first and foremost the President of the Vienna Animal Protection Association, Mrs Loubé, very much for their efforts and may invite all Austrian animal friends to take part in a process of opinion in the direction of such a Federal Animal Protection Act. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e8551	Mr Schwarzenberger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 15 minutes of voluntary time limit will be displayed. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e8573	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr. University Professor Dr. Antal Festetics, mentioned earlier by Mr. Klubobmann Kostelka, held his introductory meeting at the hearing in the Subcommittee of the Constitutional Committee on 20. November 1996 – I have here the protocol – revealed a number of inconsistencies, but primarily in the hunting laws and in the pet animals. I'm asking everyone to convince themselves: It has not been mentioned by university professor Festetics in this context by any example of agricultural farming. That means we have to put in place measures where there are shortcomings. For example, University Professor Dr. Antal Festetics criticised that in several federal states, including Vienna and Burgenland – I quote – the barbaric amputation of dog tails and dog ears is permitted, because there are no regulations at all. The consequences: a lively coupourism between countries. – This is literally the result of Professor Festetics. [[The representatives of the Greens shall draw up cartons with the title "A right for animals" on their benches.]] In particular, he also pointed out in his statement that horse races in which animals are driven to maximum performance must also be associated with animal torture. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Austria's agriculture is a very small structure in the European comparison. We in Austria have on average 19 cattle or 8 cows per holding, and we have on average 30 pigs per holding. This means that there is an intensive contact with the animals from the farmers. And there is also a very high awareness of the environment and animal welfare among Austrian farmers. Mr Klubobmann Kostelka has already pointed out that Austria has more organic farmers than all other EU countries combined. In Austria there are 23 000, while in the 14 other EU countries there are only 17 000 organic farmers. This shows how very natural our farmers are. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In our farms, the animal population is usually the highest asset, but the economic success depends on it as well. In recent years, therefore, the federal states have concluded and implemented agreements under Article 15a B-VG following long-standing negotiations in the field of farm animals. All nine heads of state signed this agreement, including those of Vienna and Burgenland. In the meantime, agricultural animal laws have also been passed in the countries by the Land Days, and all the laws have been passed by the Council of Ministers without any interference from the Council of Ministers. That is to say, it has been noted that the countries have made the appropriate arrangements. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! With these agreements, the countries have committed themselves to uniform standards in agricultural farming and have been supplemented by the relevant national laws. This ensures strict animal welfare throughout the EU in Austria. Even Götz von Langheim, the president of the Austrian Animal Protection Association, who is listening here, admitted in a press conference that these articles comply with at least the standard of the EU Directives, but in many areas they have even higher standards. For the animal justice index of lecturer Bartussek, which is a kind of notation or classification: Under 11 points it would be not enough, between 11 and 15 points it would be enough – he writes here, that would be the minimum standard of legal animal protection, and he also writes: Proposal for a Federal Animal Protection Act. Then comes the next stage: 16 to 20 points: Satisfying. Professor Bartussek also says that this is the minimum standard of the Salzburg Farm Animal Protection Act. That is to say, there is already a higher level of protection for farm animals than has been presented here again and again as a federal proposal by Professor Bartussek. – The countries have therefore dealt very seriously with this issue and have achieved the greatest possible protection. The organic farming stage would already be achieved with 21 points. That would be only five points more than the minimum standard already set by the Salzburg Farm Animal Protection Act, although this Farm Animal Protection Act has not been approved by the Greens and SPÖs. It has been decided in Salzburg's Landtag with the votes of the Austrian People's Party and the Freedom Party, although it has established a very high standard and already the animal justice index as a legal basis. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The dispute in the issue of animal welfare has mainly shifted to the question of competence, only, I believe, with the question of competence itself one cannot alleviate animal suffering. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We believe that in a state that includes nine federal states – and at least we by the Austrian People's Party admit ourselves to the federal states – they cannot be deprived of all the competences. No negotiations have yet been held with the federal states on this subject. For example, it is the federal states that are responsible for kindergartens, youth welfare, disability, social assistance, rescue, as well as hospitals, construction law, hunting law, nature conservation – why not also for animal welfare, which would round off competence because all skills related to agriculture can be found at national level? . We do not share the competences here, but should be negotiated at a high level where it is planned. We have simply lost proportionality in various areas.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e8666	Excuse me, Mr Deputies, I am just interrupting you very briefly. I would ask you to abandon these demonstrations here. I'd have to let the gallery go. [[Calls.]] Ladies and gentlemen, if you please continue.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e8693	What do I mean by that? – For example, a pre-punisher may no longer carry out animal transport. This is already enshrined in the law. However, a pre-punisher may drive a school bus very well, and he may also lead the kindergarten children. There are already certain disproportionateities. That is also true as regards the scale of punishment. The penalty of 100 000 S, proposed in the SPÖ Act, corresponds to the amount, on average, of the annual income of a farmer. In our opinion, there must be a certain proportionality – without trying to protect those who violate the laws. Pet farming has not been regulated in several federal states; examples have already been given. We therefore already brought on 13 March. 6. In 1996, a resolution was tabled in the National Council. In point 2 of this request, in the sense of comprehensive animal protection, we called for a uniformisation of the level of punishment, better rules for domestic and pet farming, fur farming, animal transport and the prohibition of dubious practices in pet farming. The Federal Government was invited to participate in agreements on this subject on national common standards with the countries in accordance with Article 15a B-VG and to act on a high level of animal welfare. According to popular animal welfare desires of last March, i.e. March 1996, § 3 para. 5 calls for the promotion of animal husbandry and the financing of measures necessary for the conversion to animal husbandry. These subsidies are enshrined in all national animal welfare laws. We insist, therefore, that the local authority or the body providing conditions that go far beyond EU provisions should be compensated for the additional costs that cannot be achieved on the market for competition reasons. The pictures that have been delivered by animal transport are really terrible, but this animal transport law has nothing to do with national competence, but is a federal law. Unfortunately, this federal law is not EU-compliant and cannot therefore be implemented. We learned last week that the Administrative Court has lifted a penalty for a German farmer because foreigners cannot be punished in transit through Austria because our law does not comply with EU directives. Even Austrians who are punished would be right if they went to the European Court of Justice to withdraw the notice. That is why we call for the Austrian animal transport law to be finally designed in accordance with EU law. We farmers would be obliged, in accordance with the more stringent regulations, namely, 6 hours and 300 kilometres on motorways and 150 kilometres on federal and state roads, to restrict ourselves in a way to reach the AMA seal. On the other hand, all those who pass through our country would be subject to EU-compliant regulations. However, we urgently need a novel that the Transport Minister has to present, and also an extension of the law, since we have only one animal transport law aircraft, i.e. air transport, which is EU-compliant, an animal transport law street, which is not yet EU-compliant, and we do not have any animal transport law rail transport. Especially in the case of shift work on the rails, however, horrible animal torments happen. I remember three years ago in the area of Schwarzach/St. Veit was treated so grossly in transit that two horses had to be slaughtered, because they were so badly injured. In this area, we are calling for the most urgent and timely arrangements. We Austrian farmers are tired of being put to death as animal torments. The experts in the Subcommittee also explained that the Austrian farmers are very much concerned with animal welfare and animal welfare. We therefore only need to regulate those areas – without greatly shifting the skills – in which there is not yet a regulation that needs to be regulated. In this way, we hope to finally take a further step forward for the protection of animals in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e8758	Before I give the floor to the next speaker, I would like to ask Mrs Klubobfrau the Greens whether their visual articulation of a short precise concern means the abandonment of verbal articulation. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Not at all!]] She doesn't mean it. I take back the fact that this concerns all of your club, because honourable Members Van der Bellen has obviously not fully joined this. So you do not withdraw your words despite this demonstration. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Maybe you can withdraw the papers!]] I'd ask you to consider if it's not enough with the demonstration. We have all seen that "a right for animals" is demanded, and this is repeated. I think your concern is enough – and still will. If you want, the papers will not be cleared away from you, but from someone else. Mr Salzl has now been reported to the House. Please, honourable Member. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e8800	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! On the comments of Mr Schwarzenberger shortly: Of course, improvements in the field of animal transport are needed, and we liberals will at any time agree on improvements in animal transport. I would like to ask you to submit legislation on this subject, and of course we will be happy to support it. Ladies and gentlemen! We are discussing today an interim report from the Constitutional Committee, which is currently discussing animal welfare needs. Let me first make it clear that the FPÖ has been in favour of a federal animal welfare law for many years and for the anchoring of animal welfare in the Constitution. We liberals have therefore welcomed the popular desire for animal protection and have also given massive support – above all our Federal Party Minister Jörg Haider, who has been representing a clear line in terms of animal welfare as well as in many other issues for years. Mrs Horngacher, you and the ÖVP could take an example of this. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the initiators of animal welfare and all the signatorys. The positions of the individual political groups are quite clear. While four fractions advocate a federal animal welfare law and the anchoring of animal welfare in the Constitution, the ÖVP is against it once again, as with most animal welfare issues. I say quite consciously that the positions of the individual political groups are quite clear, because I do not know what I should think of the statements of the Clubobmann Kostelka, when he says that the SPÖ will not make this issue a coalition issue if the ÖVP does not want, there will not be any federal animal protection law. [[Abg. May Stadler: Shrew!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is impossible to enter into negotiations with such an attitude. It is not possible to apply for this, and only because there are difficulties with the EIA, can we simply say: We're sorry, but the coalition partner doesn't want to! The SPÖ will not be according to the motto: Wash my fur, but don't make me wet, but there will have to be clear positions, especially since four political groups – I have already mentioned this – have voted in favour of a federal uniform animal welfare law and the necessary two-thirds of them would be safe in Parliament. The more than 460 000 Signatories of the animal welfare people's desire will not be satisfied with such an attitude of the SPÖ and will be planted. The various animal welfare organisations will be planted and politically abused. Believe me, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and SPÖ: We liberals will not allow nearly half a million signers to be carried around this animal welfare people's desire on the nose. We will not allow anything to happen in this respect again, but we will continue to call for the anchoring of animal welfare in the Constitution and a federal animal welfare law vehemently! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It must not be possible for the animals to have a different status in the individual Länder due to different, partially inadequate nine national animal welfare laws. It must not be possible that animals in some federal states are worse off than in other federal states and black sheep among the animal farmers and the livestock farmers to benefit from these different provisions and to escape from one federal state to another, where there are less high animal welfare standards, and then continue to drive their inconsistencies there. Ladies and gentlemen! The discussions in the Subcommittee and the hearings carried out clearly showed the need for a federal animal welfare law. It was also explained by the experts that this would in no way create a disadvantage for domestic farming, but that the assessment of farm animal husbandry according to the animal health index in connection with an animal welfare seal would even be an opportunity for our small-structured agriculture - especially if one would also mention the position criteria in addition to the quality criteria in addition to the quality criteria. Also, some of the higher production costs are largely due to the fact that, through optimum animal husbandry, there is a significant increase in performance and also a reduction in animal disease vulnerability. This is a fact which should not be underestimated, especially in times of BSE, of increasing animal diseases, but also in terms of rethinking among consumers. I therefore still hope for a rethinking at the ÖVP, because the assessment according to the TGI, according to the animal justice index, is a very flexible compensation model, as was presented to us, in which different types of posture and installation are calculated against each other throughout the year. All Austrian organic holdings – we have already heard this today – about 23 000 have been voluntarily subject to this TGI assessment for a year and a half. They have thus consistently gained positive experience and confidence in consumers, so that the organic farmers for a federal uniform animal welfare law also take action for federal uniform regulations. Ladies and gentlemen! Far over 90 percent of farmers practice a good, excellent animal husbandry, and this in their own interest because well-kept animals are healthier and more powerful. The same is true of many farmers, more than 90 percent, who have no major conversion problems either. The fact that this changeover to federal uniform guidelines and animal-friendly farming systems works has shown us Switzerland. It will work if sufficient long transitional periods are created and if, where necessary, this change is promoted to the necessary extent. Mr Schwarzenberger! They referred to our small-structured agriculture. They pointed out that in Austria, on average, only 30 pigs are kept in the EU, but 80 pigs are kept in the EU and that the average of 18 bovine animals in Austria is 42 bovine animals in the EU. If the small-structured Austrian agriculture is held here, if I look at the average number of livestock per animal farmer in Austria compared to the EU, I have to say: I believe that our chance can only be in the better quality, combined with the animal-righteous attitude, and not in animal husbandry. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, our aim must be to improve animal welfare in the EU as well. In the context of the Intergovernmental Conference, animal welfare in the Treaty of Rome must be integrated with the EU's economic objectives. Only: We must first solve these problems in our own country, because how can we demand harmonisation and improvement in animal welfare across the EU if we are not even able to solve these problems within Austria? [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: We have solved them in the agricultural farming sector!]] Mr Schwarzenberger! You have given various of yourself, which clearly document your attitude in relation to animal welfare: You don't want any improvement in animal welfare! They are shortsighted in many interests. However, the ÖVP will not be able to maintain its position in the long term! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: I am even a biobauer!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We in Austria are always very concerned about our good reputation as a cultural nation, and we claim to be highly civilized. But unfortunately, Mr Schwarzenberger, our everyday practice in dealing with animals is often in conflict.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e8885	The final sentence, please, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e8900	I am at the conclusion, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Now we have the opportunity to make some good use of harmonisation and improvement in animal welfare. Take advantage of this opportunity, I ask you to do so!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e8935	Mrs Klara Motter is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e8960	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! A popular desire to create a federal animal welfare law signed by 460,000 people, and the fact that according to § 24 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure not later than 20. A report from the Constitutional Committee on the Current People's Desire will be presented to us today on the subject of animal welfare. I too would like to express my thanks to the initiators of animal welfare, as my previous speakers have already done. For us liberals, animals are viable living creatures who need special protection. And since there are no national borders for animals, it is necessary to demand an art and animal-friendly attitude for the whole federal territory, and from our point of view both legislation and enforcement should be within the competence of the federal government. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on Green MEPs.]] We know that the only federal uniform arrangements in this area are currently the so-called 15a agreements between countries, which, however, only set minimum standards for the position of farmed animals in agriculture and are borne by the smallest common denominator. Other areas of animal welfare, such as pet farming, circus, zoo or animal trade, are not covered by these agreements at all. Furthermore, we know that, the so-called 15a agreements on animal husbandry standards represent a levelling down and in no way correspond to the new findings of animal husbandry. Ladies and gentlemen! As we know, there was a very important hearing here in the House on animal welfare. In addition, we have been able to take note of the positions of the parties here in the House on the occasion of various plenary debates. In fact – and this is really almost unique, I would like to say – four parties in this matter, which is very important, agree on the fact that animal welfare, precisely because it is not satisfactory by country competence, should be regulated in a uniform manner. [[Abg. Grandruck: That's not true! That's wrong!]] There has already been sufficient exchange of arguments, and the real experts such as the university professors, Bartussek, Troxler, Conrad, Festetics, who also know the situation in agriculture very well, have expressed their support for a federal uniform animal welfare law in the hearing as well as the last subcommittee. Only the Chambers of Agriculture with their chamberers and the ÖVP are still blocking. Mr Schwarzenberger! I am quite right to say that animal welfare must be more widespread than before. The hunt, the slaughter, the chess, the sport with animals, in order to name just a few, we must certainly also undergo thorough lighting, and all of this should be regulated by law. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: I also asked for this in my application!]] Mr Schwarzenberger! Your statements on country competence, which you are constantly repeating here, namely that we want to take something away from the countries, are wrong. For it is a fact that countries have not yet complied with their obligations everywhere in terms of animal welfare. You also need to take note of this today – as is often the case. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's not true!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Festetics has not brought any negative example of farm animals!]] Mrs Secretary-General Rauch-Kallat! Your argument or that of your party, you want to step up your efforts to protect animals in Europe, because animal welfare does not have any limits, is absurd for me for so long, as long as They are vehemently defending nine national laws, which, as we all know, are at a low level in terms of animal welfare. And I ask the question: Are the animals in the rest of Europe different from in Austria? My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party? What do you think of the latest statements made by the Council of Agriculture Rupert Wolfgruber from Salzburg – rereadable in today's local supplement of the 'Salzburger Nachrichten' – on the fact that in the European Union 50 billion schilling is provided per year for the promotion of the export of bovine animals to so-called third countries and that up to 10 000 s per bovine are paid to the exporter? Ladies and gentlemen! I assume that you are aware of the animal suffering caused by the absurd transport of live animals alone, and now quote a statement by ÖVP State Councillor Wolfgruber: The excitement for the transport of live animals was mediated. In a maximum of one percent of cases – Mr Schwarzenberger, please listen to me now! – there are concerns in transports. There's no way to talk about animal torture in general. He also says: I do not tend to believe that animals have a consciousness. – End of the quote. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! As long as high-ranking politicians from your ranks express such opinions, distrust is warranted, and one cannot do enough to protect animals. Ladies and gentlemen! The initiative of the Social Democrats, the request for a Federal Law on the Protection of Animals, is welcome. But, Mr Kostelka – he is not here now –: The gentle strategy of persuasion towards your coalition partner must not take too long, otherwise the proposal for a law looks like an alibi action, especially since a two-thirds majority can already be established here in the House for a federal uniform law. I really ask you: Don't be gentle with your coalition partner, because most of the population you already have behind! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Mr. Klubobmann Khol! I'd like to speak to you personally. I am pleased if it is true that, as we have seen in the last subcommittee, you have undergone a conversion from Saul to Paul. If I can give faith to your statements that I have read in the press today, I can see that your party will not block itself from the countries to the Federation for all times against a shift in animal welfare competence. I don't know if that's true, what was in the press. I hope, in any case, and would be very pleased if you would like to take a slow view that we cannot resist it and that animal welfare must not necessarily remain in the competence of the countries. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to point out that we will certainly receive additional information on the assessment procedure for the requests we have agreed to. But what I want to warn you about today is: The procedure must not be used to close the quality of the reviews from the quantity of the assessments, for this procedure has it in itself: Again, the main questions are the chambers, all the offices of the state governments and the liaison bodies of the federal states. However, these are not necessarily representative of the opinion of all the professionals concerned or of the population as a whole. A modest question was allowed to me in this context: What findings are to be provided by the Bundestheaterverband or the Bundesführerverband, for example, while the Hochschule für Bodenkultur or the Tierschutzvereines and associations are not included? Ladies and gentlemen! I refer to the request made by Members of Parliament to the Constitutional Committee and to the annex to which the requests must be submitted. I hope that this involvement of institutions dealing with animals can be subsequently reversed. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to refer once again to the question of animal transport. After the Administrative Court has declared the core provision of our animal transport law applicable to transport from third countries, we need to consider a new approach anyway and see if we cannot integrate the issue of animal transport into a new animal welfare law. In addition, we also have at European level to deal with this issue. I would like to call on the Austrian People's Party to act in particular with regard to its party friend, Commissioner Fischler, especially as it is clear from a question to MEPs that the European Commission is officially aware that transport costs for the export of live animals, for example from Ireland to Egypt, are about 168 to 210 ECU per tonne and transport costs for frozen beef are about 84 ECU per tonne. Ladies and gentlemen! I know that we cannot prohibit the transport of live animals, but I call on all Austrian EU Members to work to ensure that no subsidies are paid at least in the case of live animals exports. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I therefore support, in this context, the motion for a resolution on the abolition of the export subsidies for live animals by Mrs Petrovic, whom she will be submitting. The Liberals will also agree to the Petrovic resolution on the repair of the Austrian Animal Transport Act.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e9070	Mrs Petrovic is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 15 minutes of voluntary time limit will be displayed.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e9091	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic presents a panel with the title "G – A right for animals" on the speaker's desk.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: You have to do everything, Mrs. Colleague! For Taferl we have the copyright!]] The free movement of goods is fundamental in the European Union. As a result, animals are treated as goods and traded like goods across the borders of the national states. The animal suffering that arises from it is boundless, indeed boundless. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! How can you argue in Brussels for a uniform European animal welfare at a high level if in Austria we have nine very different laws, nine very different levels of protection and, above all, nine different authorities, which make the persecutions of violations of the laws impossible even within the federal territory? [[Congratulations to the Greens and Members of the Liberal Forum.]] – What credibility should this argument have? That, ladies and gentlemen, is now your mesh. It is your way of not saying openly and honestly: No, we don't want animal welfare. Because you know it's not very popular. Move therefore You are putting it on any agreements you know are not working that way, and you are pushing it to the higher level of the EU, which you know nothing will happen there if not individual states take on a pioneering role. Ladies and gentlemen! Keep in mind how the development was in terms of animal welfare. Mr Schwarzenberger! Mr. Klubobmann Khol! Of course, no one will have anything against it if we extend a federal animal welfare law for farm animals, for the protection of animals hunted, for the animals in zoos and for all kinds of representations. I cordially invite you: Please cooperate, but do not use any agreements as an argument. No one believes you – no one in this house and no one in the Austrian animal welfare movement – that you really want a uniform and higher level of protection. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: With the farm animals we have already done it!]] No, Mr Schwarzenberger, unfortunately we have not succeeded. We still have small and medium-sized agriculture in many areas in Austria. As a rule, there are not so many animal diseases there as in industrial animal husbandry, but there are also problems there. Above all, the advisory services of the Chambers, i.e. the advisory services provided by the official side, remain highly misleading for farmers. Farmers are still being told in the field of the ÖVP, which is on the radio at an early stage, that animal protection is a cost factor that would be something that is more strained by Austrian farmers than other European farmers – that is exactly what you are doing! Animal welfare is not a cost factor, but animal welfare would be a compelling sales argument for Austrian products if one consistently understands, implements and controls them, and thus a possibility to create jobs efficiently. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If you keep saying, like here from the speaker's desk, that these are images from abroad that are delivered to the house via television, there is no such thing as this, then you know that you deliberately twist the truth. Unfortunately, thousands of farm animals from Austria are also kept under severe conditions and exported under even worse conditions with massive funding and support from the European Union. Ethics and humanity remain on the track. Ethics and humanity seem to be only more disturbing in a perverted market economy system, which has lost every relation to values and also to common sense. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Schwarzenberger said that the Austrian farmers were naturally connected. Many are sure to leave them if they are promoted and supported. It's certainly not the ÖVP. The ÖVP clearly feels more connected to certain lobbys: the wholesalers, the exporters, the transport clique. This does not see anyone else in Austria, and you will not be able to disarm it with so many calls. Ladies and gentlemen! I therefore propose two motions for resolutions. You have the opportunity here to demonstrate how seriously you mean it with your animal welfare awareness. [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Here you see that federal competence does not help, Mrs. Colleague! Federal competence doesn't protect animals!]] Mr Khol, it is not that this law would in itself be ineffective. It's a little destiny that he's missing. Above all: It is a closed chain of animal torture. We have, unfortunately, an unbroken trend towards intensification. We have a lot of organic farmers, we still have many small and medium-sized farms, but an increasing proportion of animals is kept by one or two percent of the livestock farmers. One of these worst concentrations occurs with continued animal torture. The next step towards intensification is planned. Ladies and gentlemen! In 1988, the extreme practices of Hormonmafia were already complained of in the "spiegel". At the time, the EU was still in the process of legalising this more intensive farming animal husbandry. It was said that the zodiacists argue against all scientific findings, for the danger of these hormones was not proved. In the meantime, this is the case; in the meantime the spiral has turned on; in the meantime, it is the case that even these hormone mafia do not frighten people from attacks. In Belgium alone, there were ten physical attacks on investigators, on veterinary doctors who were no longer involved in these practices. This type of intensification of agriculture necessarily also results in illegal practices: from the fake earmarks to the hormone scandals. The next step of intensification is also there without this House responding accordingly because a party has here turned on blockade. It is already on the verge of cloning animals without any appropriate analysis of the risks and risks. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This House can also demonstrate this will by means of the law, but not only. Certainly these are also measures of awareness-building, but the moral values as they are anchored in the population – and they are anchored, they find their expression in a popular desire that has received hundreds of thousands of signatures – must also be reflected in the law. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, on the subject of animal welfare, which is currently the most up-to-date and, as has been said, an outflow of intensification in agriculture, an outflow of the anonymous chains, where no one knows anymore how an animal lived, where it sold, how it was transported and slaughtered. We cannot reverse part-time production. I do not think we should and do not have to, but we must become aware of the processes behind it. We must make them visible again, as the journalist Manfred Karremann and many courageous journalists have done and continue to do. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! I do not want to spare you to deal with an up-to-date knowledge of the Administrative Court, which speaks a very clear language. At least it would be important for the legal response in Austria to be uniform and enforceable. The Administrative Court has decided, in connection with animal transport, that a criminality for journeys too wide under Austrian law, if they have been relocated abroad, is not given in Austria, provided that the registered office of the company that carried out these transports is not located in Austria. This is where there is knowledge. It concerns transports in the duration of 23 hours, 20 hours, 21 hours 30 minutes, distance at least 1 017 kilometers, 1 200 kilometers. The defendant who opposes a notice of Wehr is the chairman of the Board of Directors of Raiffeisen Vieferverwertung Garrel-Bösel-Cloppenburg, which is a registered company. Ladies and gentlemen! If the execution of animal welfare in Europe, for which you are so committed, looks like a sub-organisation of Raiffeisen transports over thousands of kilometres of animals for 23, 21, 20 hours, is thus involved in immense animal suffering, and then feels a penalty of 20,000 s is too high, then I ask you: How can you assess your Minister of Agriculture's attitude to raise these subsidies for live animals? How do you see that yourself? Is this credible in relation to your press releases on animal welfare? Even more money for a non-market economy system that collapses immediately when you delete these subsidies. 20 000 s of penalty for a transport, where one of these animals, about 7 000 s for a single bovine animal, is collected in the minimum of promotion, that is a butter bread of punishment, and that is too much for the chairman of the Raiffeisen Board. Ladies and gentlemen! I guarantee you that this judgment will be read in every European animal welfare magazine. It will certainly not benefit the Raiffeisen organisation – and I regret it because such steps are usually very indifferent. It is up to you to demonstrate in Austria, at least once, the serious will to take on a pioneering role, and not, in fact, a chaos, an inconsistency, so that we can truly say in Brussels, too: We have completed it in Austria at all levels, in animal husbandry and in transport. We can rightly demand that similar standards be observed in Europe. As I said, if you were to understand this with your heart, you would finally realize that this could be a huge competitive advantage for our agricultural agriculture. But apparently feel She hasn't committed herself to it for a long time. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The demonstrations, the popular desires, the sign lists and also the spread of the truth about your attitude in the High House, about the attitude of societies such as the Raiffeisen Viehverwerbung, all of this will have its effect, and I guarantee you, it will soon be – and that will not be to hold back – a uniform Federal Animal Protection Act in Austria, but perhaps then the ÖVP will no longer exist.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e9244	Mrs Petrovic's motion for a resolution and the joint motion by Mr Petrovic and Mr Motter are in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and are under negotiation. The next speaker is Mrs Ludmilla Perfuss. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e9271	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: You still have the Taferl there!]] It can stay from me. Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Do you also say "G-A right for animals"?]] The right of the animal is also my right. Ladies and gentlemen! The subject of animal protection and the desire for a uniform regime, as reported by the Vienna Animal Protection Association in its anniversary issue, have already been addressed 150 years ago. In view of the success of the popular animal welfare desire, which has signed nearly half a million Austrians, Parliament also has a task to do. Our group is fully aware of the problem of animal welfare. We have also made very specific contributions to a uniform Federal Animal Protection Act in Austria, because it is necessary to protect all animals. This also calls for popular animal welfare. The SPÖ draft for a federal uniform Federal Animal Protection Act aims to ensure that pets, wild animals, farm animals and sports animals have their kind of disease-free life. In addition, our draft provides for very important organisational provisions, such as the establishment of an animal welfare advisory board, an animal protection prosecutor's office or animal protection bodies, and criminal provisions in the event of offences. I mean, that's a very, very important area. In the subcommittee meetings, as we have already heard, four parties have already voted in favour of a federal solution. I would like to point out at this point that there has always been a very constructive and committed discussion in the committees. This is to be seen as very positive. The expert rounds, starting with the animal welfare hearing in November 1996 up to the information sessions that took place last week, are very grateful. The majority of the experts have clearly voted in favour of a Federal Animal Protection Act, both in the case of the recovery and in the further Committee meetings. It is now important to convince farmers' representatives that the implementation of the law in agriculture, and only that can be done, will not only cost, but above all will also give them a chance. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Reichhold.]] The 20 organic farmers in Austria report very, very good successes, Mr Colleague, and also an increasing demand for their products. Mr Schwarzenberger! At this point I would like to refer to your speech. I can report – and that will They are very pleased that the Rail Transport Act will shortly be brought into the Council of Ministers by the Ministry of Transport. They also addressed the AMA seal. Mr President, I should like to thank The AMA seal is insufficient. Just one example: Sheep imported from the Czech Republic are slaughtered in Austria and are then considered as Austrian sheep, i.e. they receive an AMA seal. That really can't be in the sense of a farmer's representative. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: No, the mast must also take place in Austria at the AMA seal! That would be a fraud, what you're saying here!]] I have the information that is being handled in this way. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Imported animals must not carry the AMA seal!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Excuse me, I have to continue because I have to keep my speaking time. Dear ladies and gentlemen! The farmers know that... – Mr Colleague! [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: With fresh meat, 100 percent must be from Austria!]] May I continue? The farmers know that the consumer who is not insured by disease reports can only be regained by a credible declaration of quality products. This can only be in the sense of agriculture. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] This problem will grow even stronger in the future, because the crisis of agriculture due to mass animal husbandry has not yet been overcome. We all know that! Even the EU strategy goes towards organic farming and animal-friendly behaviour. The support system is partly already geared towards it. Dear ladies and gentlemen! What do we want? The accusation, Mr Schwarzenberger, that we wanted to harm the farmers is no more than the fact that all farmers are animal torments. It is rather a question of eliminating the fears and objections of farmers and of drawing attention to the fact that animal welfare can also protect farmers. For animal welfare protects agriculture from growing up, and, as Mrs Petrovic has said, it protects the meat industry from serious errors. We know that! It also prevents excessive centralization and the concentration of livestock production, which also harms consumers and agriculture. Dear ladies and gentlemen! It was quite a positive development when, in 1993, the federal states agreed to a common agreement on the protection of farm animals in agriculture with the obligation to adopt the minimum provisions contained in the agreements. This is the so-called Article 15a agreement on livestock farming, often quoted by the ÖVP. [[Abg. Smoking callat: which is already being met by the TGI! Thank God!]] Mrs. Colleague! This agreement was quite a step in the right direction. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] But now it comes: This agreement would have been implemented by all the federal states by September 1996. In fact, these minimum rules have only been implemented by Vienna, the Styria and Carinthia, they have made known to the countries of Lower Austria and Burgenland, and drafts are from Upper Austria and Salzburg. In the past, Tirol and Vorarlberg were inactive. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schwarzenberger.]] Mr President, I should like to thank It can be seen that the commitment to animals and to the protection of animals is quite different. I would just like to point out a report in the 'Wiener', after which I had to say this with horror, dogs and cats are eaten in Vorarlberg. This is a very detailed report, I would recommend reading it. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! Furthermore, the Article 15a agreement does not correspond to the valid EU directives, and you know that too. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wormitzer]] Even Commissioner Fischler pointed out at the last meeting of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure that these directives have not yet been transposed, and he asked them to do so. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Mr Colleague and Mrs von der ÖVP! The Article 15a agreement is insufficient! [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] It can only be used as an early stage or as an instrument for raising awareness, because the country agreement can, and you know, be abolished unilaterally if the head of state does not agree with the uniform regime. Furthermore, the living conditions of different species are not regulated at all. Ladies and gentlemen! It sounds as if the Assembly of the Chamber of Agriculture for Upper Austria is saying that the Article 15a agreement is absolutely sufficient to achieve the objective of comprehensive animal protection in Austria. That's just not right! Let's be honest, and let's admit that! The above-mentioned omissions are therefore serious reasons for a uniform Federal Animal Protection Act. The SPÖ draft adopts, on the one hand, the EU Directives, but at the same time includes all those areas which have not yet been regulated. These are, as already mentioned, the pets, the wildlife, sports animals, zoo and circus animals, the animal trade as well as animal pensions and so on. In fact, the SPÖ draft contains only naturalities which are not in national law. However, these naturalities result from ethical, consumer policy, health and environmental reasons. Well-known experts – you have heard that, and you know that – give us a right. You could list a number of examples. Dear ladies and gentlemen! All the amendments tabled by the political groups will be submitted for consideration. We expect further proposals in the sense of comprehensive animal protection in Austria. We hope for quality improvement, Mrs. Col. Motter – but she is not here now – because animal protection is not only a question of political competence, but also a question of personal proficiency – to speak with the words of Professor Festetics. Mr President. Finally, I request that the report of the Constitutional Committee on Popular Desire (171 of the Supplements) be submitted in accordance with § 72 para. 6 to refer GOG to the Constitutional Committee again in order to be able to carry out further discussions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e9437	The request for referral, which the honourable Member has just read, is sufficiently supported, as far as I can see, even by all five political groups. It will then be voted. Mr Schwarzenberger spoke in favour of an actual correction. You know the rules of the game.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e9464	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Parfuss said that the national legislation, so to speak, imposed by the Article 15a agreement, was only present in the draft in Salzburg and Upper Austria. That's wrong. In both federal states, the national laws have already been adopted. In Salzburg – admittedly – only in autumn 1996 the last of these state laws was passed with the votes of the ÖVP and the Freedom Party. According to documents by lecturer Dr. Bartussek, who has established an animal health index, the minimum standard of the Salzburg Farm Animal Protection Act 1996 corresponds to even 16 to 20 points. This makes it higher than the proposal for the Federal Animal Protection Act.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e9501	The next speaker was Mrs Maria Rauch-Kallat. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e9525	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The popular animal welfare desire, supported by 460 000 Austrians, is aimed above all at improving animal welfare, but in addition to a federal legislation on animal welfare, the Animal People's Prosecutor's Office and a number of other points, in particular the financial promotion of animal welfare. In the subcommittee and in the Committee, that is, in expert hearings, we have only discussed the material forms and the shifts in competence. I regret this a little because the other parts of the animal welfare population, especially on concrete measures to improve the situation, were not adequately discussed. The expert hearings were extremely interesting. I am very glad that the treatment of this popular animal welfare request in Parliament has allowed for extensive information to be given to Members. The experts focused primarily on pet farming, hunting and fishing rights, the slaughter and shafting of animals and animal transport issues. They have, in particular, repeatedly been referring to the animal justice index, which, for example – as honourable Member Schwarzenberger has pointed out several times – has already been included in the national laws adopted in accordance with the Article 15a agreement. These Article 15a agreements were concluded before the popular animal welfare request, on the initiative of the Austrian People's Party and the farmers, who were a little faster by themselves. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The implementation of the Article-15a agreement in the federal states – it sets the minimum standards, the framework directives to which all nine federal states, i.e. all nine heads of state, have committed themselves – has also resulted in a better solution in some federal states, for example in Salzburg, than these minimum standards provide. A federal law, which, however, is the lowest standard – which fears the Austrian People's Party in a federal law – would even mean deterioration for some federal states. The Austrian People's Party will certainly not give its approval to this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! However, a federal law is not yet a guarantee that compliance with or the implementation of the law is also guaranteed – let alone that the draft of the Federal Animal Protection Act presented by the Social Democratic Party would require not only contradictions but also 38 new laws and a number of regulations. What this means in time, you can be sure that, for example, under the Federal Animal Transport Act, the corresponding regulations have not yet been adopted by the Transport Ministers and therefore also a corresponding execution is not guaranteed. Ladies and gentlemen! The animal transport law in particular shows the importance of EU-wide regulations. In the last few weeks, despite dramatic pictures of the Austrian-German border, we have seen that animal transport from the EU cannot be used in Austria because the animal transport law of the European Union does not meet the strict standards imposed by Austria. This shows that EU-wide rules are necessary not only in the animal transport legislation, but also in livestock farming, especially because we want to ensure fair conditions of competition for Austrian farmers in Europe. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Unfortunately, Mrs Petrovic is no longer here. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: (showing on the empty places of the Greens) So much "interest" they have at the discussion!]] If she says she's worried about the Austrian farmers, then I'm almost laughing because the Greens condemn incredibly many Austrian farmers to dying, to the loss of their jobs, and thus withdraw the Austrian farmers' livelihood. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Steindl.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This will certainly not allow the Austrian People's Party. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: So much "interest" the Greens have in the debate!]] [[Abg. Wormitzer: The Greens eat schnitzel!]] We therefore strongly support an EU-wide animal welfare regime. We are in favour of framework directives which the European Union considers binding in all its 15 Member States. There is also a corresponding initiative by the Foreign Minister and Deputy Chancellor Dr. Schüssel to include animal welfare in the EU Treaties. Ladies and gentlemen! I very much regret that, in addition to the expert hearings in the political part, the Committee has so far been discussed solely about the shift of competence, but not about concrete improvements in animal welfare. The EIA is therefore committed to the referral of the application to the Committee. We are very happy about this and we will be working on the further treatment of both animal welfare and the various requests made by the various parties, including the Austrian People's Party resolution, in particular for actual improvements in animal welfare. Ladies and gentlemen of all political groups! We cordially invite you to cooperate. If you are not only concerned with shifts of competence, but also with actual improvements in animal welfare, you will find it hard to say no.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e9629	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Reichhold. He's got the floor. The clock is set to 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e9650	High house! Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! As a farmer's child, I have been educated to deal with those creatures who mean our existence in awe and dignity. That's why I'm full of animal protection! I am also in favour of animal welfare because it represents a real opportunity for the small-scale farms in Austria. I acknowledge this because it is the best guarantee against the threatening developments in mass animal husbandry, which brings us phenomena such as BSE crisis, genetic engineering and cloning, and also provokes diseases such as chicken fever and swine fever as well as antibiotics resistance. Every consumer – I understand – gets a horror about food when daily the newspapers read about the effects of mass animal husbandry. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I therefore believe that animal welfare can be the key we need to find a sustainable agriculture that is both in the interests of the farmers, the small farmers, the small farmers' structure in Austria and consumers. It is more important for agriculture than ever before to pay attention to the benefits for consumers. We farmers in particular have to keep in mind the wishes and needs of consumers. It is therefore an opportunity for Austria to take animal welfare provisions seriously. However, if the Austrian producers demand that the standards on animal welfare be higher than those of the European Union, there must also be a level playing field. One cannot confess to the European Union but at the same time constantly disadvantage whole sectors by having to produce under more difficult conditions. It is necessary to provide for appropriate funding from the State in order to ensure that investments that increase standards in the field of animal welfare can also be made. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In contrast to what I repeatedly hear from Mr Schwarzenberger's comments, I think it makes no sense to oppose the concerns of consumers and to say: No, we don't want animal welfare. I believe, Mr Schwarzenberger, that you have already weakened it a little, but your intercessions, your personal talks with me, can be seen that the ÖVP is more likely to adopt a defensive attitude on this issue. I believe that there would be an offensive attitude. We must not exaggerate the child and not pour it out with the bath, but I believe that as a politician we should go to the offensive and call for changes and investments in agriculture so that where higher animal welfare standards have not yet been reached, this level can finally be achieved. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: This is what I asked in my speech that, if they are planned, higher standards must be paid!]] Yeah, but in personal discussions, it always looks different. I have already become very careful about the correctness of the peasantry. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I believe that we are also in danger of falling asleep. Mr Schwarzenberger! When, in 1989, Mr Haupt demanded an import ban on beef from England, because BSE was already mentioned, we were not taken seriously. Or: When the feeding ban on animal meal was called for, including our group, we were, I have read the protocols, partially accumulating as nesters. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: In force since 1990!]] I believe that if you now also act defensively in the field of animal welfare, then once again you will be sleeping one more important development for Austria and the Austrian farmers! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I also reject it, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, when you create new enemy images here. I don't think it makes sense to go to the farmers and present them as the biggest animal torments. [[Abg. Huber: Nobody does that!]] The Kostelka draft does not go far enough because it focuses almost exclusively on agriculture. This draft should also cover other areas, such as hunting, fishing or small-scale farming and love-making. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: As the Farmers' Federation has said!]] These are areas which, although small, are of great importance to animal welfare. No enemy pictures, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! Today, much has been said about control, but look at the situation in Austria: The only national councils that control – they have competence – are free national councils: State Councillor Thaler in Salzburg and Landesrat Grasser in Carinthia. Where are the national councils of the other parties in the other federal states which carry out controls on animal transport at the borders today? - There's nothing to hear about it. I do not know whether the laws we already have in Austria will be implemented with the necessary seriousness – including your colleagues in the government parties. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e9771	The next speaker is Mr Wabl. He's got the word for about 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e9793	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: (on the empty banks of the Greens pointing) Perfectness left alone!]] In order to secure the applause of the ÖVP, I will first read the text of a statement by the Austrian bishops, namely the demand for animal husbandry. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: That's not enough!]] The bishops warn in a statement on the responsibilities of creation and the manner of animal husbandry. Against the background of the Christian faith, all creation has a divine self-esteem and is not alone for the benefit of humans. In its statement, the Bishops therefore call for all efforts to lead food production to land-based, circular, rural agriculture. Development should be directed towards environmentally sound production and animal husbandry. For producers, trade and consumers, animal welfare should become an important quality feature, the bishops call for and add: Christians who take their creative responsibility seriously cannot be indifferent to animal suffering. I thought now a applause came from the ÖVP. Since my group is not present, I shall stop speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e9850	The next speaker is Mr Deputie Gradwelt. . As the honourable Member is not here, I ask Mrs Huber whether she is speaking for the SP position. [[Abg. Huber is aware of this.]] - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e9878	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! What does consumer protection have to do with animal welfare? I asked this question at first reading. I would like to stress today that I believe that there is a very close link between the two areas. Because if the supposed delicious beef-bread in the last episode after a few years comes up with neurological failures – say: Jacob-Creutzfeldt syndrome – reported back at the top of the table, if you best have an appointment with the doctor before eating a hendl, and if the schnitzel – overtly formulated – replaces the antibiotic, then this has a lot to do with the different provisions in the individual countries regarding animal transport, especially but also with the conditions in the stables and with the sensitivity of the farm animals. Because excessive mass animal husbandry – without regard to the needs of living creature – and the mutation of pig and cow to pure meat suppliers are those negative conditions that make the animals sick. These diseases must then be combated with medicines whose residues can be found on our tellers in the final consequence. A species-friendly animal husbandry does not need performance promoters and no medical prevention. Therefore, I plead for a federal uniform animal welfare law that advocates as high standards as possible: a law that lays down the welfare of our animals, a law that creates the conditions for healthy and good meat, and a law that also provides consumer safety. Before the representatives of the ÖVP-Agrorfügel yell at once again, I would like to make one clear: With us farmers, thanks to God, we have set up a rethinking process in good time. I can only give the Austrian farmers "Bravo!" to call because they are increasingly turning to agriculture close to nature. I would like to expressly note that the illegal pharmaceutical cocktail in the feeder's ropes is not only not permitted, but also thank God is not customary. Where the journey goes, if there are no strict rules on attitude and feeding, a study published in the February issue of the "Consumer" magazine has been brought to light. Antibiotics in schnitzel were demonstrated in 2 percent of the samples across the EU. In Austria, only a black sheep under 300 samples was made. This is a case too much, but it is a relatively good testimony to the Austrian farmers. In Ireland, on the other hand, 17 percent of each sixth pigmeat sample was found, which does not belong to the healthy pig. I therefore agree with the EIA that it is now important and high time to work towards better animal welfare provisions across Europe. But I ask you: Why don't we start in our country and try to unite the nine different animal welfare laws on as high and good standards as possible? As a consumer speaker, I have to take up this uniform animal welfare law because we need regulations that do not deal with animal husbandry. Chickens in leghold batteries, attached pigs, meshed geese are under stress, and stress produces disease, and diseases must be treated. This closes the circle. Therefore, with all due emphasis, I specifically demand from the ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP: In the Committee you agree to a federal animal welfare law, because animal welfare is not least consumer protection! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e9921	The next speaker is Mr Grossruck. Speech time: 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e9942	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! 460,000 signatures to popular desire were the starting point for a months-long discussion, a rightly months-long discussion, a legitimate emotionalization, polarization and, unfortunately, some polemization. Ladies and gentlemen! As the debate takes place today, it is not possible to address animal welfare: debt allocations and the projection of European maladministrations in Austria, in order to suggest that it was in Austria as it was in other EU countries. So one cannot deal with the problem of animal welfare and its discussion with seriousness. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This discussion is necessary for the formation of consciousness, it is good for thinking and commotion, and should make the people aware that not laws alone can prevent abuse and torture, but that it is the personal attitude of each individual to the animal, to other creatures. That's what I'm calling myself. For this, the discussion we are having today is good: to create a awareness that we should and must have respect for creation. It is also good when films, photos and press articles are delivered to the house that show us, as in European countries – not in Austria, ladies and gentlemen! – some of the animals are dealt with and some of the crimes committed against animals are committed. On the other hand, we must speak out, against which we must keep our stand, and against that we must fight! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The popular desire or the subsequent discussion gives a false impression. One gets the impression that Austrian agriculture would be equated with a "animal gesmbH" and every animal farmer would also be an animal torturer. I also strongly support the fact that the Austrian People's Party is being presented with leaflets and launched press releases as an animal torture party, just because we have a different view of bureaucracy and of measures and sensible and efficient animal welfare than other parties may have. Ladies and gentlemen! We do not let animal torture and the disregard for animal welfare get into our shoes! On the contrary: As members of a Christian-social People's Party, we are commanded from our point of view to be apprehensive of creation and animals. We also prove this with the laws we already have in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! As a Christian-social People's Party, we profess to be a comprehensive, effective and efficient animal protection. In the opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, we have different opinions. We believe that the national competences we have in Austria are sufficient. We know that the Article 15a Treaties are partly much better than the European standards. I was present at the hearings and I must give the participants a high degree of willingness to find out. I had reported on this because I felt I was referring to myself as a animal protectionist and animal lover, and I also thought that I had to participate in this discussion because it concerns myself. We have heard that over 90 percent of agriculture is in order. President Jäger of the Veterinary Chamber and other experts have confirmed this. There is therefore no need for action in Austria. On the other hand, there is a need for action at European level because there are still animal diseases on the agenda. We in Austria have regulated animal welfare with good national laws. Ladies and gentlemen! The differences in opinion as to whether more bureaucracy and more forms of office are better than good national laws cannot usefully lead to a discussion of whether a party would have more or less embedded animal torture in its principles. That is wrong and wrong. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have therefore tabled a motion for a resolution to regulate comprehensive animal welfare across Europe. I find myself, if I may say so, with Mrs Motter in a boat, which is the subject of animal transport. I too believe that at least live animal transports should not be promoted, if not even banned, because it would cease to undermine Austrian agriculture with cheap imports from the Netherlands, Belgium or other EU countries. This should be decided, Mrs Motter, I fully agree with you and, as I believe, all the other parties represented here in Parliament. That is why, like you, I call on Austrian MEPs, to work lobbyism for animal welfare in Brussels, to treat the issue of animal welfare in Brussels, and to bring about regulations that take place across Europe. Because animal welfare and animal suffering know no limits, as we have heard. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As I have already said, there are differences of opinion. In my opinion, too, a federal competence law, according to which we would have to amend 36 laws and adopt new ones, would not be aimed at. It has no animal, if we decide here a federal law, but then the competence, implementation and regulation will only be left to the countries, as is foreseen. What are you doing? – We take the competences of the countries, adopt a Federal Animal Protection Act, and then return the competences to the countries. Ladies and gentlemen! It's bureaucracy, it's office jungle that doesn't use any animal that doesn't bring anything to any animal. We also need to discuss – this is about legal protection of animal welfare and state liability. This bill is also about a lot of money. It is about the establishment of bureaucracy and animal prosecutions, which are also to be paid from public funds. We need to discuss this. It belongs to the following placed on the table: What does it cost? What will it cost if this law is to be executed? – After that, we will continue to talk. I believe that it is necessary to hold this discussion and to march in harmony with the countries, to form a close to the countries and to ask: What can we do together for animal welfare in Austria? – We cannot simply believe: We make a federal law, and with that we are released from responsibility, and the animals are protected. With a law, ladies and gentlemen, we do not protect any animal. We only protect two "animals" by: On the one hand, we feed the newspapers with headlines and on the other hand we protect the official mold with the Animal Protection Act. I would like to explain this briefly to you, ladies and gentlemen, even though it has nothing to do with animal welfare, but it is to be feared that national animal welfare will also suffer. It concerns the Magistrates Department 37 in Vienna. ==References== In June 1993, an architect known to me made an application to announce the design of the walkway and the exposure because someone wanted to build a building. – I emphasize: in 1993! ==References== The letter came back on February 14, 1997, and the architect was asked to submit an authorisation within 14 days, otherwise the application would no longer be valid. For four years, ladies and gentlemen, the request is made to the Magistrates' Division 37 and now the originator is asked to submit the authorisation within 14 days. I just wanted to show you dramatically what more bureaucracy means, which means more bureaucracy. It doesn't matter to the animal if we decide a law here that can't be executed. Let us leave the competence where it is best, namely with the countries, and let us see that we get a European animal welfare law that corresponds to our intentions, namely a comprehensive animal protection!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e10058	The next speaker is Mr Koller. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e10079	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! The animal welfare population has signed 460 000 Austrians. Animal welfare is governed by nine country laws. A fragmentation in nine laws and several regulations hinders the enforcement of animal welfare rights. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That is why we need a federal animal welfare law. Some examples: In Carinthia and Tyrol, the castration without an intoxication is allowed with animals of up to two months old, in Styria and in Burgenland for up to four weeks old animals and in Upper Austria for up to three weeks old animals. Or: Chess is permitted in Vienna, Styria and Carinthia, but is prohibited in all other federal states. They see how important a federal animal welfare law would be because of the different regulations. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Animal welfare, animal suffering have no limits. Mr Donabauer said that in committee, and he also said that he was matured from Saul to Paul. Mr Donabauer! It is very dangerous to quote the Bible, especially the apostles, for among the apostles was also one called Judas. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: What are you doing?]] This proves once again the double density of the ÖVP: In the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! A Federal Animal Protection Act would only be an advantage for agriculture. Farmers could no longer be played against each other. The farmers are also victims of advice. The stable construction methods were often imposed on farmers. By the chamber consultants, the farmers were often recommended much too expensive, non-artifactural stables. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] A classic example of this is the short-term, another of the cow trainers. These are examples of non-artifactural animal husbandry. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We have to come to animal husbandry across the board. In the hearing, representatives of the Chambers of Agriculture, claimed by representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture that Austria is an example of animal welfare within the EU. The representative of the Ministry of Health, on the other hand, claimed that Austria had only to be brought to EU standards in the field of animal welfare. Ladies and gentlemen! We demand clear rules. Sagittarius may only be carried out by a specialist in the domestic slaughterhouse. We do not want live animal transport in Islamic states and no subsidies for live animals transport. We also call for transitional periods and aid for farm changeovers in agriculture. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Not anymore for breeding cattle?]] In summary, it is to be said: Animal welfare must not only concern farm animals, but also include wild animals, pet animals and animals in petting zoos. Animal welfare must be the concern of all! We liberals do not want to promote the bullfight in Spain, as this supports the ÖVP's EU Member Schierhuber. We also strongly reject goose-stopping in Hungary and bird fishing in Italy. We want an exemplary animal welfare law in Europe, which takes into account both the interests of farmers and consumers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e10165	I call Mr Wimmer. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e10186	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I have followed the debate very closely and thoroughly today, and I have actually been given the impression that we all want the same thing anyway. Almost all the speeches were as if a unanimous decision could be taken at the end of this item on the agenda. Unfortunately, this will not be the case. Ladies and gentlemen! The popular interest in animal welfare has shown how sensitive this issue is assessed by a broad population. 460 000 signatures are not easy to wipe from the table. It is right to point out that the present state is unbearable. No one understands that such different standards of protection are possible within a state. Countless examples have already been mentioned in the discussion. It just can't be. I want to spare you by showing you more examples, but one thing is clear: This cannot be the final conclusion of wisdom. Today, ladies and gentlemen from the ÖVP are often talking about a competitive disadvantage. I tell you, in fact, the opposite is the case: In particular, there are competitive disadvantages due to the different treatments in the individual Länder. And if Mr Großruck argues that we should enforce and introduce such a comprehensive animal welfare law only in accordance with the European Union, then I can tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that this is in fact a delay in the problem. We must first, I say quite clearly, clean up our homes and we must not always wait for others to do it for us! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The Animal Transport Act has also been addressed today. I have to say: That really made us a good compromise. That is why we are a pioneer throughout Europe. But I would like the countries to be more constructive in the implementation of this transport law. I know there are no problems in Upper Austria, in Salzburg and in Carinthia, but I hear from the other federal states at least that it does not work at all. And that's changed, it's abandoned. Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me to make two further comments on the transport of live animals in Europe. Whoever followed the media reports last week was a witness to these hideous practices, which are subsidized with horrendous sums, as well as from EU pots. Ladies and gentlemen! This money does not get the farmer, but here only the livestock dealers and the transport lobbies take off. This is an unsustainable state, which, as I mean, is immediately abolished! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! A federal uniform animal welfare law is essential. We're on it. 15a contracts are not a suitable instrument to ensure comprehensive animal protection. Of course, the first thing that needs to be done is to talk to the main concerned. And especially in the field of agriculture, it must be possible to work out the cracks, to filter out to determine what separates us or where fears lie. I say quite clearly: It will not be possible without the participation of those concerned. It does nothing at all if something is acquired without consciousness. It doesn't work. But I think we should not at least give the chance to try. Perhaps in the next few weeks or months another compromise will succeed. I would like to say to Mr Reichhold's address: The SPÖ does not create enemy images, but tries to create axes between agriculture, animal protectionists, veterinarians and, above all, consumers. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e10250	The next speaker is Mr Donabauer. He's got the floor. The clock is set to 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e10268	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! A great deal has not occurred to you on this important subject of animal welfare, nor has you, Mr Koller. Once again, you have kept your compulsory reading practice here in your impressively pleasant way. And if you have said that I am from Saul to Paul, then I stand by it and refer to the fact that I said: [[Interlocutory calls to the liberals]] I have liked the way in which we have worked on this issue at the end of the day. I was initially skeptical about this survey, including the expert consultation with experts in the Committee. But that was positive, that made sense, and that's what I'm standing for. And that's why I'm a Paul. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A second thing: We need to get rid of the horror pictures that deep down – deeply! – touch. It doesn't make sense to always say what's going on. We have to do something and we have to show where all this happens. Most of these scenarios, no, better said, all these animal transports that have been shown have happened somewhere in Europe. It's terrible that something like that happened! We need to change that. But with a federal animal protection law alone, we won't make it. We have also failed to get order in our country with the Federal Animal Transport Act. And there can be no one in the peasant group or even in the ÖVP to assume that we were sparse here! Ladies and gentlemen! Where will the regulation on the animal transport law on rail transport remain? [[Abg. Perfuss: Come on!]] Yeah, she's coming! She could do it already. Where are you, please, the controls? Even if it was promised here that it would do a few federal states and a few not so precisely, I must say that the federal matter is. This has to be done together. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I also believe that it makes little sense to reconcile organic farmers and the Federal Animal Protection Act. I'm telling you, farming is largely all right. Mr President, Mr Jäger, has also confirmed this to us in committee. I thank him in every way, because he's shown as a practitioner what's going on outside. We farmers are trying to keep animals reasonable because we live with them, they are our partners, and they are also those who create the basis for our farms. We're not crazy and we're doing something that the animal doesn't need or can't tolerate. Conversion premiums – we like to hear the message. But I'm asking you: Does this also have something to do with Dr. Kostelka's social season, that you can then say: Ui, there are so many hundreds of thousands of schilling!Unknown term type: "%s".? We are not going to let this issue get us into the twinkling mill. We are willing to work together with you to create something decent. I think it's called for a rethinking and not a devaluation. It's embarrassing what you've done here in this high house. It's enormous to see us as a animal torture party. It is also immense if you say here that we are to blame for the failure to comply with the animal transport law. Months Please ask those who need action here. It is immense if you here accuse us of accepting the Herod Prize, although our Minister may. Molterer in Brussels has led to a trend change. Let us also recognize the positive! We have been pioneers here. I'm happy about it, and I'm proud of it. We will continue along this path with all those who accompany us objectively. It is immense if you accuse us of feeding animal meals here. Professor Troxler has just encouraged the feeding of animal meals to non-ruminants in the Committee to close the cycle. It is immense if you accuse us of feeding genetically modified feed. Please don't put that on us! We have to take the feed offered on the market. And we are together with you all to control this whole development in order to control genetic manipulation as properly as possible. Mrs. Federal Minister! I think we have a lot to do about this. It is immense if you accuse us here that we are not interested in an animal identification. We've been working on it for months! Help us at all levels so that we can spend it soon. Another point I would like to mention here is that we need animal welfare schemes not only for the agricultural sector but also for all areas. I have collected press releases here, and in all these statements you find no fault in farmed animal husbandry, but without exception in pet farming. We must also take these in. That is why I call for a comprehensive animal protection for all animals. Maybe we can take this home. It is so once, and this must also be seen this way. I think the turtle in the living room has little fun, and I think that the cat must feel tormented without freedom. The dog will also have no joy in the "cattle" apartment. And the dog, who can drive 20 hours in the car at plus 40, 50, 60 degrees in the vacation and have to wait outside until his female or gentleman has eaten at lunch, will also have little joy. Let's see this too, please, and let's talk about it too! In conclusion: We advocate the welfare of the animals, without any difference – that is our concern – both the farm animals and the pets. We are therefore in favour of this because we feel and have responsibility for safeguarding rural life, for fair conditions of competition and for a European law. And if you doubt it, I can only tell you: They are all represented in the EU Parliament, but encourage your colleagues that in Europe our proposal is not only heard but also adopted and implemented. You got it in your hand! Help us! We really mean it honestly. If you don't succeed, you're in duty. It's huge when you're teaching about antibiotic feeding on animals here. I beg you, this has nothing to do with animal welfare! Show us that an Austrian farmer is involved! For things that happen elsewhere, don't make us responsible! An animal welfare law does not solve this problem with God! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We say: Animal suffering has no limits and knows no limits. That is why we need a Europe-wide solution, as we propose. – I would ask you to discuss this issue and this matter from now on and in all future with a little more feeling, with a little more materiality, with a little more relation to the animals. Because laws alone do not solve these problems. Teachings of whoever makes them don't take us any further. I think we have the responsibility together. You have in us a correct interlocutors, but only for suitable solutions that we can face tomorrow in our country!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e10327	Mr Dr. Hazelsteiner is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e10356	The construction lions also deserve animal protection. I must say that they have it as rarely as ever before, the lions, because they are already sitting in a cage with stalks. Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I think some of you still have the children's rhyme in your ear: Don't mess with the animal, because it feels like you're in pain. Of course, today – with some exceptions – we are no longer a joke of animal torture, but our industrial society has become a large-scale animal torturer for economic reasons. We all complain that we have brought an important industry into this transformation – away from agriculture, to industry. We use methods, and we use principles that make sense in industry, such as the cost-degression of size, the rationalization effects up to the last possible emissions. But we know today – we are reminded almost every day – that we have a great misbelief. We know that mass animal farming, the transport of live animals and the feeding of hormones are not only animal torment, not only harmful and not only pitiful from this aspect, but also that there is a much bigger and a much more effective cull that hits us ourselves: the BSE scandal, the swine fever, the Salmonella pollution. All these things are ultimately carried out by us consumers, and that is just one aspect of this large and comprehensive area. But if we talk about these issues – Mr Schwarzenberger, you know that – we always say: This is an EU matter; we can no longer regulate it autonomously. – Of course you are right about this. It is essentially an EU matter, and it must also be addressed there. We have always conjured the following when we applied for EU accession: We will be able and effective there, we will raise the vote, we will put our stamp on the EU in important areas and on important issues. . That was a reason why the population of Austria has given such a great deal of support to EU accession, namely our active role. In this context, we are still lucky that we in the EU have a Commissioner who is Austrian, who was Minister for Agriculture and who has its roots – like many of us, I too – in the rural population or in the rural population. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I'm sorry that my grandfather... – No, still my grandfather. [[Abg. Dr. Leiner: The great-grandfather maybe!]] I could prove it, but it's probably not worth it to you. However, if I could return to the previous statement and if you, Mrs Fekter, were to follow me "with your roots", then we must find that an EU country, if it wishes to raise its voice crediblely in the EU, has to live up to something. It is unbearable that we say: Mass animal farming, the subsidy for the export of live animals and the transport subsidies are to be abolished!, but even domestically, it is not even a matter of regulating a small thing, a profitability comparable in these dimensions – and this is a uniform animal welfare law. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] I don't understand your argument. I think it is not enough to feel responsibility, Mr Donabauer. You have to bear responsibility and not feel it. They go out and say: We feel responsibility, and all animals – yes, of course, not only the farm animals, but also the pets, even the turtles that have been strained by you – deserve an animal welfare law! – But why not a federal unit, Mr Donabauer?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: The Federation must first create structures!]] Mr Schwarzenberger! If you say that this is red tape, then I have to say that is simply not true. The expenditure on bureaucracy depends on the content of the law. But you will not explain to me that nine national laws are better and better to be administered than a single federal law! This is a proposed claim of protection. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] Mr Schwarzenberger! You do not trust yourself, because there are resistances in individual federal states before which you choose. There are economic interests here. This puts you at risk the reputation of our farmers, who are not mass animal owners, who have a decent relationship with their animals – hard but heartily. That's what you're risking. They tend to throw them into a pot, because you pretend to be a federal animal welfare law against the farmers or against the rural population. And that's not true! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] An animal in the Styria or Carinthia or in Tyrol can be treated according to the same standards that this House has to adopt. It contradicts any logic that there are differences between Carinthia, Styria and Tyrol in this regard, Mr Schwarzenberger. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Have you ever heard of anything of 15a contracts in the federal constitution?]] Mr Schwarzenberger! Give it a rest! Nothing prevents this House from adopting by a majority a Federal Animal Protection Act if it wanted the majority.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e10447	No further words are available. The rapporteur did not ask for a final word. That is why we are now voting – hard but cordially. There is a five-party request to refer a request from Mr Schieder, Dr. Khol, Mr Koller, Mr Petrovic and Mr Motter, to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Citizens' Rights for 171 of the additions. I should like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who vote in favour of this referral request for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. This will continue to consult the matter in the Constitutional Committee, and the vote on the subject will be unnecessary. That's what we've got on the 2nd. Agenda item. 3rd. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the report of the Federal Government (To III-58 of the Supplements) pursuant to § 9 para. 7 of the Volksgruppengesetz on the promotion of groups in 1995 (566 of supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e10502	We're coming to 3. Agenda item. I do not have a desire for oral reporting. The first speaker is Mr. Dr. Kier. I ask him to take the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e10529	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The item on the agenda, which we are now dealing with, is commonly referred to as the "Volksgruppe Report", and for me this is an essential point of departure, because it is not a People's Group Report, but, as the report itself rightly calls it, a report by the Federal Government on the promotion of groups, in this case in 1995. This is precisely a political assessment, because the fact that we in this House are not able to deal with a People's Group Report, but only with a report on the promotion of groups, because there is no real national report, shows that we are apparently afraid of the political debate on the issues which can be linked to the problem of the ethnic groups. Otherwise, we would not be limited to promoting alone, but we would also discuss the political content of a well-understood group policy. And that's a shame. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] However, there are also a few not entirely irrelevant political comments to be made on the report itself. He is a numerical account of what has flowed from financial resources. It is quite clear as far as possible, but it is partly instructive. For example, it can be seen that the fact that, in particular the two government parties have occasionally instrumentalized their group work to finance party-related groups of organisations can get an overwhelming trend. On page 5 of the People's Group Report, we have a position to deal with the working group of Croatian local policy in the Burgenland, which one insider knows is an organisation close to the ÖVP. To this end, the debate in the Committee has shown that funding from this association – quite rightly – has been used for individual actions, including the production of a compact disc with music. This is very good, but unfortunately the ÖVP was released on the Compact Disc as a supporter. This is something that has emerged in the Committee.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e10564	Deputies! [[Further call of the Abg. Kiss.]] It's about terminology! – Mr Dr Kier, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e10585	It has emerged in the Committee's discussion... – Mr Kiss, please do not interrupt me! [[Abg. Kiss: What are you talking about?]] You then have the opportunity to speak here, and if that is not the case, then you will be able to say that. I shall report on what has been achieved in the Committee. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on Green MEPs.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kiss.]] This has remained irreconcilable there, and that was something we discussed. It was stressed that at the end of a long chain of processes, the national groups' promotion of the Federal Government has been transformed into the promotion of a political party. [[Further call of the Abg. Kiss.]] I think that is why this is because it is a carefree deal with the groups as well as with the funding. Now, in case of doubt, the promoted product is in order and the promotion plan is fulfilled, but the mislabelling behind it – so that I express myself in such a way that my colleague Kiss does not appeal again – is not sympathetic to the mislabelling of the funding. You will allow me, Mr Kiss, to say that I am not sympathetic, and it is also a pity that you are trying to call me down with calls. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I find that a pity, for he who fears the truth must cover them with noise. I'm sorry. [[Abg. Kiss: Unfortunately, you don't know what you're talking about!]] Nevertheless, I would like to say to you once again: I am already right to see that the party-politically-related working party of Croatian local policy in the Burgenland will provide funding. On the other hand, I do not defend myself for a second because the Croatian minority must remain completely untouched, in what form, in what associations and how it organizes itself. I would just like to make a public presentation of what was discussed in the Committee, because that is important. You can dementate it a hundred times, two hundred or three hundred times – this was discussed in the committee, and that is the thing I wanted to make public here. There was no cry in the Committee because the Committee was not public. That's the difference, and I'm just taking the opportunity here to make things public that you might otherwise keep behind the upholstered doors. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kiss.]] Mr Kiss! On the other hand, last weekend, exactly on Saturday, a one-day People's Group Congress took place in Oberwart. That's in a federal country you know. There your group was not significantly represented, so you were apparently not interested in it. It was a question of labour market and ethnic groups, that is to say a purely matter of matter, and one could not be particularly famous there, but one had to take part in a discussion. It was also the second anniversary of Oberwart, which is why it was done. It was Mr Ofner there, otherwise I did not notice anyone from this House. I am only telling you this because it would sometimes make the discussion more serious if you – in this case, it was not far from your place of residence and therefore reasonable – would participate in such things. I'm just saying, it's really important to me. This was an event that was not spectacular, which was simply devoted to work and to the groups, but obviously it was not interesting for you. On another aspect of this report: Unfortunately, in this report - and we have discussed this in committee - there are also positions which are not actually included in this report. The then State Secretary Schlögl, who represented the Federal Chancellor's Office in the Committee, also admitted that he saw this similarly. It appears, for example, the position "Federal Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs" in the People's Funding Report. That's where you're wondering: The Federal Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is promoting the ethnic groups? - You're stupid. In addition, the ladies and gentlemen of the labour market service were prepared, in the context of the second People's Group Congress, to declare, quite boldly, that this title actually does not provide support for groups of people. Then one sees that this refers to the victim - care law. The report regrets that, due to data protection, it is unfortunately not possible to specify and quantify the exact number of Roma and Sinti who, due to their persecutions by the Third Reich, have also received grants under the Code of Victim Care, but it is therefore stated that the report states that Roma and Sinti, as well as Carinthian Slovenians, have received funds under the title "Sacrifice Law". I asked the Committee: Is the People's Group Policy, if we grant grants to the victims of a terrorist regime under a victim welfare law, or is it an individual reparation, or is it a partial compensation? Does this have something to do with popular policy? – State Secretary Schlögl had to admit that this did not really belong to the fact that this was probably just written in – I am telling you now – so that the amounts could be higher so that one can pretend to have done more for the groups than one does. And that's a shame again. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] The Federal Ministry of Finance also appears here, and this is almost even more bizarre. In fact, the Federal Ministry of Finance, in the context of the report on the promotion of the ethnic groups, states that the Republic of Austria is on the occasion of the 75th anniversary. Return of the anniversary of the Carinthian referendum gave the country a one-time grant of 25 million. I do not know what this - in the understanding of this report - has to do with popular policy. There has been a number taken up with the help of which is done as if we would do more than we do. This is something people already know how to interpret. The interested party does not like it if a report is submitted by the Federal Government, which represents higher amounts than they do in the case of serious consideration of the promotion of groups. The then Secretary of State, the German Federal Minister for the Interior, had to do this too. I deliberately quote his words, because it imponed me. He said: That was insensitive. . I expect that in the next report, in that over the year 1996, such positions will no longer appear. We don't need that. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] We do not need to artificially blow up the figures in the field of the promotion of groups. What is to be expected from the basic attitude has made clear to us and to ourselves – I would say – the call phase. There is no serious will to regard popular policy as something other than something to be adorned with. I don't think that's good. – In particular, Mr Kiss is already untenable. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kiss.]] You yourself are in a situation where I would not have expected it from you. [[Abg. Kiss: In which?]] . I simply mean, Mr Kiss, you do not need to do the people's concerns in this way by simply challenging what I have reported about the committee, although you know very well that it was so. [[Abg. Kiss: I can prove it is wrong! I don't claim something, but I know it's wrong!]] I would understand that you are nervous if I were to raise the claim that these funds should be repaid. But I didn't say that at all. Then maybe you'd be obliged to prove. [[Abg. Kiss: You have no idea!]] But I believe that this is a question of political culture. But in the sense of your political culture, it is just right that "Party" picks up when "Republic" should stand on it, and in my opinion, that says more about your group's national attitude than anything else. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e10736	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Posch. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e10757	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! My previous speaker has criticised the fact that this group report is only a dreary numbering work which does not say anything about the true sensitivity of the groups, and has taken out three examples to support this statement, and I must say straight away that I am quite in agreement with Mr Kier in one matter, namely when he thinks that, for example, the victim welfare law in the promotion of the groups has nothing to do with it. Nevertheless, if the report were wrong and if people were wronged, one would take note of that as done by parliamentarian Kier because, in fact, the report according to § 9 para. 7 of the Volksgruppengesetz says much more about the promotion of the ethnic groups. For example, the report states that in 1995 a total of 53 million Schillings were spent on club funding. It is possible to draw political conclusions from this. This funding includes cultural associations, churches, scientific centres, music schools, parents' associations, sports associations, libraries, cultural centres and more. If one compares this figure with that of 1988 when 4.4 million schilling have been spent for the whole population group support, then it can be found that this funding has increased by a total of 1,200 per cent over this period. From 1994 to 1995, there is also a substantial increase in the approach from around 39.8 million schilling to 53 million schilling. In addition to this promotion of groups, there is a large number of further measures by the federal, state and local authorities under the People's Group Law. According to the Press Promotion Act, the Federal Chancellery supports the Croatian press with a total of 375 000 S and the Slovenian press with a total of 967,000 S. It supports the Federal Ministry of Education and Cultural Affairs in the school sector events, teaching materials and other more with a total of 10 million Schilling. It supports the German Federal Ministry of Science and Research Slovenian publishers, the "Offene Haus Oberwart" and so on also with about 10 million Schilling. There are also numerous expenses on the part of the countries. Only the extra effort in the field of school administration due to the provisions of the Minority School Law for Carinthia is 83 million schilling. So one cannot say that nothing would be done. I admit, however, that there is still much to be improved as regards the sensitivity of the groups. I acknowledge that there are shortages in the field of kindergartens. In the first place, however, the municipalities are responsible. Although the Federal Chancellery promotes the recruitment of bilingual kindergartens, there are still many resentments to overcome on-site. In Carinthia there are five private and seven public kindergartens with bilingual groups, in Burgenland there are bilingual kindergartens for Croatia and four for Hungary in 25 municipalities. For pre-school bilingual education, however, progress would be desirable and priority should be given to the ethnic groups with regard to secondary schools. The rise in bilingual education in Carinthia is a welcome one. Although half of the children registered do not have any Slovenian skills at all, there is nevertheless a significantly changed positive trend, which is a sign of a more tolerant overall climate in Carinthia. I would like to monitor the media supply of the groups by the ORF, although there is a lot of progress. The ORF has an excellent program: The Slovenian TV broadcasts half an hour every week at a good time on Sunday, and there are a total of 50 minutes daily radio. In particular, the provision of radio is an essential basis for the survival of a language, and especially in public broadcasting with its cultural mission, the language of ethnic minorities is a great enrichment and therefore very, very important. But in many other European countries, there is an excellent, partly better media supply for ethnic minorities. In Italy, the RAI broadcasts full-length programs for the South Tyroleans from Bolzano, for the Slovenians and for the Aostatals from Trieste. Slovenia, for example, broadcasts a full programme of Koper for the Italian audience both in radio and in TV. There are also excellent promotions in many other countries. With Blue Danube, the ORF has an excellent multilingual transmitter or frequency. I could imagine a similar institution or a similar frequency for the Alpen-Adria area. Mr State Secretary! The first point I would like to address is the following: Last year, there was a unanimous motion for a resolution calling for the Council of Europe's Framework Convention on the Protection of National Minorities to be ratified by Parliament. I would ask you to do this immediately. I believe that we do not need to wait for other countries, but that Austria can already ratify this framework convention. Secondly, I would like to convey a novel to the People's Group Law, involving all the relevant forces that would be desirable. I hope that there will be consensus and joint action in this area also within the groups. A consensus would be essential for a new law, for a people's group legislative body, in which a total Austrian representative conference of the national council chairmen, which is legally legitimate, is to be held on fundamental issues relating to all or several ethnic groups. Such a conference would be a very important control and regulatory body to safeguard the interests of the Austrian peoples. However, the extension of the participation rights of the national councils would also be a major step forward. In the same way, I welcome the anchoring of a state target in the law – whether it be with a constitutional provision – according to which Austria acknowledges its linguistic and cultural diversity. That would be quite, very important in these times. The content of such a provision could be, for example, the promotion of intercultural dialogue, the protection of the freedom of confession and the protection against discriminatory or violent threats and actions. I hope that we will make progress in this area in the near future. Finally, I would like to say that there has been a good trend in the promotion of groups over the last few years. Intelligent societies have no time for hatred and intolerance at all, only culturally debilitating societies need nationalism and xenophobia. Austria has every reason and does well to treat its ethnic groups well. The ethnic groups living in Austria today are a reminder of the ethnic diversity of Europe and, in particular, of Austria. It was Austrian German nationalism, which has already made it impossible to reform the monarchy towards equality, and the Austrian National Socialists have finally helped to suppress, persecute and murder not only hundreds of thousands of Jews, but also the so-called gypsies, and in a graduated form and with differentiated murderous consequences, to persecute and discriminate against the racially inferior Slavic groups according to the Nazi ideology. The Republic of Austria therefore has every reason to exercise tolerance towards the peoples. The position of minorities is an indicator of general sensitivity in the country. Assimilation is already very, very far advanced. However, our culture is not imaginable without the influences of other cultures. That is why, Mr State Secretary, I would ask you to pay considerable attention to the importance of the groups of peoples for cultural diversity and cultural heritage in the promotion of groups in order to create the conditions for further successful and tolerant living together. Because there is a request or initiative of the Styrian Slovenians to be included in the People's Advisory Council, and because according to the Volksgruppengesetz the same number of people's group representatives is provided for and therefore an increase is necessary and we are not sure whether the Carinthian Slovenians agree to it, we are in favour of the Federal Chancellor's Office examining on what legal basis the Styrian Slovenians could be included here. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: 0.5 Promille!]] [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: Do you have any idea how many there are?]] That is why Mr Posch and Mr Steibl have tabled the following motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e10866	The motion for a resolution, which has just been referred to, has been properly tabled and stands for negotiation and for the vote. The next speaker is Mrs Stoisits. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e10890	Dobar ve#er, poštovane lady i gospodo! [[Abg. Dr. Fuhrmann: Dobar ve#er!]] Dobar ve#er, gospodin Wittmann! Ladies and gentlemen! I would particularly like to welcome Mr Wittmann here, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, because he is now the fourth Secretary of State I have to deal with, since I have been a member of the Greens' minority. A little bit seems to me like the topic of popular group policy within the Federal Government is a kind of hiking ball: We started with the current Klubobmann, then State Secretary, Kostelka, then it was Dr. One, then it was Mr. Mag. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: I was four years old!]] Schlögl, now it's Dr. Wittmann. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: What we offer you!]] Who knows who's in charge next year. But, Dr. Wittmann, this is not a mistrust of your person, but rather a distrust of the respective Federal Chancellor, where I wonder how seriously he is talking about the agendas in national affairs. It would be desirable to have a certain continuity created. Ladies and gentlemen! I don't know if my previous speaker, Mr Mag. Posch, who actually gave an amazing speech in comparison to the speeches made in previous years as a government politician, because she was also quite self-critical, the exact figures mentioned here, but it is truly appropriate to note here that the promotion of groups has increased considerably in recent years. I do not want to say that this may also have to do with the fact that there have been active groups politicians and political groups in the last few years and that this is a causal link. At least 53 million Schillings are now available in the form of grants for the preservation of the ethnic groups in this country and for the preservation of the language and culture of the ethnic groups. That's how it defines the People's Group Law. I do not wish to repeat the criticism of the report presented by Dr Kier on a number of points, but I would just like to stress it and say: The report is nothing but a cash settlement, in which is listed, which club and which party gets how much money. He does not make any substantial national political statements. The more important this debate is in the National Council's plenary session, to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, of what it is all about. We have experienced tragic moments around this time last year and two years ago, including in the House. After the homicides of Oberwart, all the colleagues in the National Council were concerned about what was happening. A lot of time or enough time has passed since then. The opportunity would have been to become active on the part of the government leaders. But it's only time gone by, I miss activity in many fields. Mr Dr. Kier has criticized the lack of presence of politicians at the weekend event in Oberwart. I myself was not present there for family reasons, for private reasons. Last year I was there. It was an interesting event. It is particularly unfortunate, however, that those parties who have the power to make decisions are not represented there, since they have decisions by the majority here in the House. It is commendable when Mr. Dr. Kier and Mr. Dr. Ofner and the Teresa Stoisits meet, discuss with and discuss with groups of people. But we're on our own, as you know, not going through there. The Austrian ethnic groups need your vote to do this. I therefore made a proposal in committee. Secretary of State Mag. Schlögl – I was sitting in front of him and watching it closely – listened to it very interested and then concurred, which is essential. At that time, a proposal for the amendment of the People's Group Law was discussed. Khol and Dr. Kostelka. This initiative was not least because of the pressure of the ethnic groups organisations. However, this discussion has been cancelled, it is not available at the moment. Now there is praiseworthyly – and I would like to say this quite clearly – an initiative by the President of all the political groups in this House to hold an event on this issue in May of this year, which I hope to hold personally and also for my group. I hope that Mr Wittmann will have time to take part in this event, because you are our husband in the government for us; under "our man", I mean our man for groups. This event definitely makes sense. But it will be particularly important for the Austrian People's Group Policy, if there are already considerations and aspirations to prepare something in advance. I already have a little fear that we, the political group speakers of the parties, will then sit there and represent everyone there and will also make a bit of self-repulsion and the event will end without concrete results. My proposal would be to clarify this point in advance so that my fear does not come true. This event is not a coincidence for the 12. On May 15th, the day of the conclusion of the Vienna State Treaty is scheduled to take place. May, which is the "Magna Charter" of People's Rights in Austria, namely, its article 7. That this event takes place right at this time also has a high symbolic value for us. That is why I ask the two clubmen to develop and continue their initiative. Something has to happen at last! It cannot be limited to producing only "small papers". Although I have already announced my request for a change of the federal constitution and for the creation of a, as I would like to say now, state objective, which is an explicit commitment by the Republic to linguistic and cultural diversity in that country. I have therefore not done so in order to have the opportunity by May to find a consensus here because the issues that are only consensually soluble are the issues. It makes little sense for a party to set up initiatives at the parliamentary level, which are then not even ignored. I refer to a request that has been received positively by all parties, in which there is also a representation of the ethnic groups in the ORF's Hearing and Seeing Advisory Council; now it is already there forever, and nothing is happening. Only the offer is not enough. There is a real need for active action here. Ladies and gentlemen! As far as the money for the ethnic groups is concerned, I have to criticise, as is the case every year, the self-service of the parties in the promotion of groups. It is now constantly being said in our country that we should not fall back into old political patterns, that the times of the fifties are over, that propor is trying to break down, that "depoliticization" and "privatization" are the keywords, but in the popular group policy, especially when it comes to money, we are in the absolute fifties of the Stone Age. In the promotion of groups, the parties use an insolence that is embarrassing to me as a politician. That is why I also warn against saying this particularly loud, because, ladies and gentlemen, the bad light falls on the peoples, when you hear what understanding of popular promotion SPÖ and ÖVP – and the guilt affects both equally – have. I am referring to the example brought by Dr Kier in relation to member of the parliament Niki Berlakovich. - Because Dr. Fuhrmann looks at me: This is now the ÖVP; one has to divide it a little. In recent years it has always been the SPÖ, which was at the point of my criticism, today I am dedicated to the ÖVP. Mr. Landtagsreiter Niki Berlakovich goes to CD presentations and presents a CD there of an excellent Burgenland-Croatian pop group – he presents it as his gift, he has promoted it. His name was printed on the CD in the edition, and it looked like it was about his money. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Niki Berlakovich didn't distribute his money there. He has distributed money from popular funding. [[Abg. Kiss: In which property?]] Where do we come from when Austrian politicians distribute funds dedicated to the law of the promotion of the ethnic groups like their own, like measles in the area? – This is the self-understanding behind it. Where do we come from if it goes as it has been since 1988: The ÖVP organization of local representatives, the organisation of ÖVP mandates, has received 2 250 000 S – only for that? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kiss.]] The SPÖ page: 2.7 million schilling. If this money were used for folk group activities, it wouldn't be so bad, but what really happens to it? – For example, money to cover infrastructure costs is transferred directly to the cash registers of national party organisations. [[Abg. Kiss: Which party?]] The SPÖ-Mandatare association transfers the telephone costs directly to the SPÖ-Burgenland. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Party funding is that! That's called party financing!]] It really smells like heaven. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, please start to stop this, so that there is no further embarrassment like that of recent years, as 92 per cent of the funds used by these organisations – these sums vote for both parties; these are figures directly from the People's Group Report or from a parliamentary response from former Federal Chancellor Dr. Vrnitzky – for which infrastructure has been spent. They can't work, because they don't have money for it anymore. After all, you only have 8 percent of the resources to start cultural activities to support something. The funds flow into the rent for the SPÖ-Burgenland, at telephone costs for the SPÖ-Burgenland. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: They flow into the party bank!]] That's directly into the party's bank, and that's on the SPÖ side as well as on the ÖVP side. [[Abg. Kiss: This is a smooth lie! For the ÖVP, I am against it! That's a smooth lie!]] Mr Kiss! If you visit Old Federal Chancellor Dr. Vranitzky's lie in parliamentary responses, he will know how to defend himself. That's what he wrote to me in an answer to a question. I know that this is completely embarrassing. [[Abg. Kiss: This is a smooth lie!]] If it were not the truth, then Mr Kiss would not have to intercede so loud now. Peoples are not served with this! It's about working. We are concerned with innovation in the People's Group Act, with the creation of a state target. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That's why he's no longer Federal Chancellor!]] And I hope to do so with the help of President Fischer's initiative and with the help of Mr Dr. Wittmann, the new Secretary of State, will have concrete results until May. And I hope that the next discussion will take place on the occasion of the adoption of the amendment to the Volksgruppengesetz or the B-VG. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e11055	For the term "This is a smooth lie!" In the sense of the practice so far, I give a call for order. Mr Kiss has made a statement on an actual correction. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Who received the order call?]] – The Member of Parliament is speaking. Speech time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e11091	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mr Stoisits has here claimed that the ÖVP would have received grants from the funding of the ethnic groups. – This claim is incorrect. I reject them as untruthful. True is: According to the People's Funding Act, no political parties can be shown to be supported. Any contribution that flows to groups of people shall be certified and billed to the Federal Chancellery. In addition, the Court of Auditors controls all the funds for a second time. Mrs Stoisits! You claim here repeatedly against better knowledge in protecting your immunity something that is not true in the matter.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e11128	The next speaker is Mrs Steibl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e11150	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! It is already very interesting how the opposition parties sometimes deal with the truth, especially in an area where it is supposed to be so much tolerance and the need for honesty. With all due regard to Mr Stoisits, I really must say: I would like more often to see the Greens and, subsequently, the People's Group Centre have an approach to working together and not to defaming people who are working for minorities and the ethnic groups. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Elmecker.]] The People's Funding Report, which we are currently discussing, is a report on the promotion of individual groups and their organisations and their important work in the regions. In 1988, 5 million started to arrive today at 53 million, and this is certainly a success. It's a gratifying increase. It is also to be welcomed that there are associations that operate lobbying for these groups working in the field of awareness-building, in cultural and in other areas. The fact that such groups are also anchored in the parties must, I believe, also be admitted. Federal Minister Schlögl has also said that it is also for the other parties to become active – I mean, actively also when working, not only when speaking. You could just as well, if you put in concrete proposals or projects, receive support, my colleague. [[Abg. May. Stoisits: This is stupid!]] [[Abg. Großruck: "This is a fool!", she said!]] Bullshit is the more often a bit of opposition.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e11196	Ladies and gentlemen! I do not understand at all why such a division is now taking place.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e11211	The supported associations are strictly controlled. It is also planned that in the next time... Yes, just as it is. [[Abg. Kiss: Because the colleague Stoisits is waiting for things that prove not to be true to the facts, Mr President, which are smooth lies!]] I believe that we must speak honestly here, that we should not have negative lobbyism, but for the groups for which minorities are to work. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is also planned that there will be clear guidelines on correct accounting for all the legal entities of the ethnic groups. That is also good and necessary. If we talk about the People's Promotion Report, we must also say that it could have ended in committee. But no, at the request of ÖVP and SPÖ, he has been put to the plenary session in order to discuss very important concrete issues of the ethnic groups. The first point is the improvement or further development of the People's Group Act. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] The ÖVP adheres to the fundamental rights of Austrian minority law. We know that, beyond Article 7, we still need support and work on further development, but only in agreement with all the groups. It may include a national objective, the upgrading of the national councils and the involvement in the assessment procedures of the ethnic group matters. The Advisory Boards, whether Croatian, Hungarian, Slovak or Czech People's Advisory Councils, have all been in favour and have gone along with it, only the representatives of the People's Group Centre, their chairman Karel Smolle, General Secretary Mikl and Mr Pipp, who is also the leader of the Council of the Carinthian Slovenians, are not seeking dialogue and have made their own request. This is, of course, their right, but we must also consider how we can take the first steps in order to be able to take further steps afterwards. It should also be noted that the Austrian Minority Protection Act is a positive example of development in Europe in several respects and that we do well to implement the Khol - Kostelka proposal, which unfortunately is not so easy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Secondly, on the demand, on the origins of Mr Stoisits, who works very much about the media, while in her actual implementation there are sometimes problems. To ratify the Framework Convention on the Protection of National Minorities, it must be said that negotiations are under way in the Council of Europe and that there are still open issues, essential elements, such as the composition of the so-called Advisory Committee. Many things have been settled in rough outlines, and the Federal Chancellery also states that this proposal, which is the most intensive work, cannot yet be allocated to Parliament. The third point, also played very strongly over the media, is the involvement of representatives of the Slovenian People's Group of Styria in the existing Slovenian People's Advisory Council. It is by no means in agreement that Austrian citizens also live in Styria, whose mother tongue is Slovenian and who use Slovenian as a language of use. As far as the recognition of the Slovenian minority in the Lower Austria is concerned, it is certainly not a mistake to continue to work on it, although of course some mistakes have occurred, because we also sometimes have difficulties in dealing with our history. The fact is that since 1994 two representatives of the Slovenian minorities have been co-opted in the Advisory Council of the Slovenian People's Group. If a representative goes out because, at one time or another, he does not have a face in the negotiations, then not everyone can do so, then one must talk to the person concerned. The Constitutional Committee of the Steiermärkische Landtage held in-depth discussions not only with the Committee members but also with the mayors, the mayors, the municipal councils, the people who live in the Lower Austria, and agreed with them or decided that a request should be submitted to the Government at the next Committee meeting in March 1997. I believe that if the Liberals and Mr Barmüller wish to put forward a motion for a resolution, in which, although the nine Liberals could easily sign five of them, only one is signed and they ask the Styrian Members for support, which is very populist. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: What is populist about it?]] In conclusion: For the future of minorities and the working of groups in Austria, the key point must be to strengthen self-responsibility and independence. The protection of minorities is a concern of the ÖVP – hopefully this is also a concern of the others, especially the opposition.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e11282	As the next Member, Mr Mag has himself. Barmüller. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e11303	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kier has already stated that the report on the support given to the groups in Austria is very numerical that it lacks the political dimension. The request put forward by Mrs Ridi Steiblweiss is one of those requests, Mrs Deputies, which are intended to highlight exactly that political dimension. [[Abg. Steibl: This is not necessary!]] The fact that it is a specific Styrian problem is nothing bad, and we both agree. Ladies and gentlemen! Contrary to what Mrs Ridi Steiblin's interpretation has said, it has been so far in Styria that, although Austrian citizens live there with Slovenian native language and the Styrian government has a hearing right in the question of whether Austrian citizens with Slovenian native language should be represented with their seat and voice in the People's Advisory Council or not, the state government has always vehemently rejected. Mrs Ridi Steibl! It is not as you suspect that the populist path is being sought on this issue. I'm even going beyond that: They have said that if I ask the Styrian Members to support this, it is too obvious. - You're perfectly right. I therefore put this motion alone and asked my group to be able to put it alone so that it would not be classified as a party proposal in the past. It is not only the Styrian Members who are called upon to decide whether they want this request to be dealt with, but all the Members of this House are invited to express their opinion on it and to remain standing or sitting on it when it comes to the Austrian citizens of the Styria with their native Slovenian language with their seat and voice in the People's Advisory Council. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Mrs Steibl! I welcome the fact that the Government has also responded and a request has been made, also concerning the Styrian Slovenians and the People's Advisory Council. It is a reactive request – and this will be granted to me by Member Kiss – because it is not a question of CDs that have been supposedly sponsored, but rather – and that is the essential difference between the two requests – that the government groups should specifically call the Federal Government or the Federal Chancellor to investigate and examine the extent to which a representation of the Styrian Slovenians can be set up in the People's Advisory Council. [[Abg. Kiss: That's how they look!]] There is no question at all that this is possible if the political majority in this country, in this House, wants to do so. But we have long gone beyond the time of testing. Ladies and gentlemen! The fact is that the Styrian Government – it should be noted that there is a pro-porz system in the state governments, of which the ÖVP and the SPÖ and the FPÖ are affected – has not been expressed in a willingness to do so, but the opposite has been made to send to the Styrian Slovenian or Austrian citizens with Slovenian native language in the Styria their respective representation, which they themselves agree with under the State Treaty. I think that is why your request is too short because you only want to examine it. Of course this is possible, but the question is whether we should set up the representation, not whether we should examine it or not. The Liberals are in favour of us setting up such a representation, and we do not want to do so as a party political matter. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In order not to break this matter, I would like to make it clear once again: We do not want to be examined only. Mrs Ridi Steibl! We would like Austrian citizens with Slovenian native language to be represented in Styria in the future with a seat and voice in the People's Advisory Council. At present they only have observer status, i.e. they are allowed to listen, but they are not allowed to vote. We believe that those rights which they are entitled to under the State Treaty should be granted – better today than tomorrow. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e11375	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Ofner. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e11396	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! If one has followed the debate between Mrs Stoisits and Mr Kiss, one could only smile, because in a sense both were right. Of course, there is a kind of rerouting profitability in the promotion of groups. But money does not have a mesh, i.e. the millions or many hundreds of thousands of schillings flow from the Republic's cash office into the cash registers of party groups of the ÖVP and the SPÖ. This is why Teresa Stoisits is right. She's excited about it. And the Pauli Kiss is also right if he has pointed out in the thoracic tone that this does not get the ÖVP, and he has included that it probably does not get the SPÖ either. Both parties appear in appropriate disguises. On page 3 of the funding report is the "Presidium of SPÖ-Mandatare of Croatian and Mixed Communities", which receives 625 000 S, and only two sides further behind, on page 5, stands the "Working Community of Croatian Municipal Policy in Burgenland" (ÖVP) with 850 000 p. [[Abg. Kiss: Where is there a word about the ÖVP?]] Now you can come out and say that you are not! When you told my predecessor that this was not the ÖVP, I was still able to smile. If you say again that this is not true, then look to the Federal Chancellery and say that they have built up a print error. – But it really is! There is redirection profitability, but it is embarrassing that one does not act under his right name, but allows himself to be held by groups. That's a fact! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Kiss goes near the speaker's desk.]] I would rather deal with the subject less because you have to generate yourself. [[The speaker turned to Abg. Kiss.]] Show me your note! Give it to me! Hit page 5! - No, give it to me, I'll do it for you! [[The speaker takes a paper from Abg. Kiss.]] [[Abg. Kiss: What's it all about?]] I'll tell you! It is the "working community of Croatian local politicians in the Burgenland". He comes out shy and discreet and asks: Where's "ÖVP"? - Nowhere! It's the ÖVP, it's a division of the ÖVP! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You can't plant us in the long run, dear Pauli. I very much appreciate you being able to intimidate the Terezija Stoisits... He's grinning now! Now we've already opened you up, my dear friend! [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] Of course, it's not "ÖVP", it's a union of ÖVP local politicians. You can get out, tell me, I'll tell you. [[Abg. Kiss: Really!]] Now he's taking it back! [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: The shame can't even be applied in Burgenland!]] He will actually correct that on page 5 there is a group of ÖVP local politicians on it, but on page 3 in the brackets is not "ÖVP" on it. [[Abg. Kiss: You said that!]] He will correct that, but we all know what it really is, and everyone in the Burgenland can tell it. My dear Pauli! If you tell me a lie now, I'll "help you" but outside of Parliament. But you don't trust that. You could easily do that to a lady, but with me, you're rather a little restraining. [[Unrest and intermediate calls.]] Ladies and gentlemen! From 1994 to 1995, the funding of groups has increased from around 38 million to almost 53 million. This is progress! However, it must also be said that this financial blessing has not reached evenly the individual groups, on which the arithmetical principles have been so halfly distributed, for the status of the groups and thus their financial needs is very different. I repeat what I have mentioned on other occasions: It is still the Roma and Sinti who have such a great need to satisfy themselves, also in social terms, but also in the elimination of real discrimination, that they cannot find results with the amounts they receive, even if they are millions in the low range. With the Roma and Sinti, at least in Burgenland – in the other areas they do not settle in this closed form – nothing has changed. Still their houses have no basement and no solid flooring, but a steamed ground, yet their house groups, in every respect, are located at the edge of a place, outside the area. The Roma and Sinti still have no water supply, no disposal, no electricity and no telephone connection. They have to fight not only with an enormous amount of unemployment, but also with illiteracy, as we can no longer imagine in Central Europe. You must start anywhere at zero or below zero. All that has been promised in this sector in recent years has not been kept. Everything was forgotten! If you look at this, you will be able to convince yourself: the need is real and discrimination is old! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Recently, the exponent of a newly established Roma association in Burgenland has tried to get an extra room for the founding meeting in a guest house. With her concern from 14 host houses, she has "fled out" after explaining to whom she would like to share this extra room with. It has had to go to a locality, to a municipal office, to a meeting room to start with a group of people who wanted to establish a social association for the Roma – in the district of Güssing – in order to finally get under roof and compartment. – These are the things we need to deal with as a matter of urgency. You cannot divide and judge the financial resources arithmetically, because the Roma need much more than they get. This is less urgent for other groups, although, of course, all the money is needed, than for these poorest of the poor. I invite everyone here in the House to take a look at the place and the place, to go to the Roma Union and to its rooms in Oberwart, to listen to what the people there – not at all thickly applying and quite calmly and objectively – tell, when it comes to bringing the language to paper first, when it comes to teaching adults by means of pictorial representations, how individual objects or animals are called and how to write them. – This is moving and touching at the same time! Ladies and gentlemen! There is a need for greater funding than is the case at present, financially, but above all humanely. They must be met humanly, overcome their distrust, and make a bridge. Even though sometimes this may not seem simple and not easy from the point of view of those called for it, it is a command of the hour. Only to promise when journalists are nearby to smile at the Roma only when the television cameras are running, and then to forget everything again and to fall back in times that were announced years and decades ago, is this a process against which we, personally and my friends in the group, are deeply opposed! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Fortunately, not all ethnic groups are so bad. On Saturday, one of my previous speakers mentioned it, the 2nd. The European Council held its first meeting of the European Council in Brussels in December. The main unit was held by well-known Innsbruck University Professor Steinicke, who has been very well-founded in the situation of the ethnic groups in Austria. He has expressed his position – we are pleased to see that other groups, especially the Slovenians in Carinthia, have already taken a turn, and he has called it a "trend in southern Carinthia". He found that the process of decommissioning, the assimilation process that has been in existence there for a long time, seems already broken. This means that the Slovenian people in Carinthia, their consistency, have gained ground and is about to continue to strengthen and strengthen themselves. I do not want to say that the Slovenians in Carinthia still do not need appropriate support, but it is important to keep in mind that there are gradations in need, in the need to reach among the poor, in the hierarchy of the individual groups. It has been dealt with intensively by previous speakers the problem of Slovenians in Styria. I suggest that this question and this problem be considered once on both sides of the border between Austria and Slovenia, that one examines what one can do for Slovenians in Styria or, as someone has mentioned, for Austrian citizens of Slovenian tongues in Styria and at the same time and in the same way for Slovenian citizens of the German tongue in Slovenia. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There should be a cross-border approach to both problems, in the effort to address them in the same way as a solution. Perhaps it would be best to achieve something like that, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] 19.2 1
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e11555	Mr Kiss has reported an actual correction. – Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to begin with the claim that you want to correct. Speech time: 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e11588	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! The former Minister of Justice, active lawyer and Deputies of Ofner has misrepresented the facts here, from the Federal Government's funding report III-58 of the supplements to the National Council's Stenographical Protocols, XX. legislative period, page 5: Croatian community of local politicians in Burgenland, parentheses: (ÖVP). I'm actually correcting: In the parliamentary documents, on page 5 of the title Working Party of Croatian Municipal Policyists in Burgenland, of course, is not ÖVP. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: How many parties are represented in it?]] This claim, which has been put in place in the protection of immunity, is therefore unacceptable.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e11637	Mr deputies, what are you reporting for? [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: I say to a personal response that has been mis-quoted!]] Mr deputies, that is not possible. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Then let me speak!]] Good. The next speaker was Mrs Hlavac. - Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e11679	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The promotion of groups in Austria has increased in recent years. The amounts available to the ethnic groups have increased sharply. As can be seen from the report, there are a number of organisations and associations that receive funding and can thus fulfil their mission to carry on, develop and maintain the cultural heritage of their ethnic group. Mr Barmüller said that this was mainly a numerical report and that the political dimension was missing. I wouldn't look at it so hard. I think that this report provides a very interesting and valuable set-up of funds, which are mainly used by the Federal Chancellery for the promotion of groups. And it is also evident from the organization's breakdown and list of organisations how broad the palette is and that very different organisations are being promoted for their political and cultural social work. That seems to me very, very important. I would like to focus, as a Vienna MP, on the groups of people represented in Vienna. And if I look at the funding available to the individual groups, I would like to point out that it is very welcome that the resources for the Czech People's Group are divided into a number of organisations. I am very pleased that the Czech People's Group has consolidated in recent years, that after a number of problems it has managed to establish the People's Advisory Council and that the best practice and the people's group is much better applied and much more supported than before. The most important post of funding for the Czech People's Group is the renovation of the school building of the Komenský School. Furthermore, there were also considerable amounts for the school at all, but above all for the parent club. I am pleased that I think it is very important that this school is promoted, a school that is truly rooted in the tradition of Vienna, in which generations of the Czechs have been trained, who have kept their language there and who have been qualified for life in Vienna at the same time, and which in many areas have contributed and contributed very important to the culture of Vienna, for which Vienna and for Vienna as a whole have contributed. I have taken the report that there are still organisations within the Czech Advisory Council, which, at least in the title, still run the Czechs and Slovaks, such as the Cultural Club of the Czechs and Slovaks, the Association of the Czechs and Slovaks, the Minority Council. I asked myself, because I was interested in whether this means that there is still a common ground and a joint cooperation between the two groups in these associations. But this does not seem to be the case, as I personally regret, because I note that there is a strong distrust between the two groups, especially from the Slovak people, which can be explained historically easily. But I regret that there is no better cooperation. The Slovak People's Group has now also had its own national advisory board for a long time, and there too it has proved to be quite excellent. I have had the opportunity to talk to representatives of the People's Group today and have asked if they have a mandate for me, whether there is anything I should present here today in this debate. They have said they are very satisfied – I think they are sometimes too satisfied. One should set up one's own demands as a minority and not be too modest. However, they have said that they are satisfied, but they would very much like to know that the People's Group Act will be amended as soon as possible. A word also about the Roma People's Group in Vienna. The Advisory Council was formed in 1995 and this has undoubtedly had a positive impact on the work and on the possibility of associations and institutions. The cultural association of the Austrian Roma recently has its own office and a center in Döbling, i.e. in my district. That too is something that I am particularly pleased with. I am always in contact with the chairman of the Advisory Council, who is at the same time the chairman of the Cultural Association, Rudolf Szarkösi, who is very well-known for his dedicated work and doing something that, as I believe, is very important to the Roma People's Group: He tries to reduce the resistance and prejudice against this group of people, he reports on the tragic fate of the Roma and Sinti during National Socialism in schools, submits and discusses at national universities. I believe that it is a very important work of peoples' representatives to promote understanding and mutual understanding for their peoples. The recording of their own history and the mediation of this history is important for the groups themselves, for their own self-understanding, but also for the other parts of the population who have not dealt with these issues. I think that this promotes knowledge, but also understanding towards other groups and people. Finally, I would like to take a brief look at the legislative proposal for the revision of the People's Group Act. There should have been a joint meeting of the People's Councils recently. Unfortunately, this discussion could not take place due to the reform of the government. I hope, however, that this will be brought to the fore as soon as possible, because the proposal seems to me to be highly appropriate, to improve the People's Group Act and, above all, to give more importance and weight to the national councils. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to say that for the Social Democrats in this country, the work for the ethnic groups, the support of the ethnic groups, is an obligation which we would like to fully respect.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e11741	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e11762	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I have been wondering since the beginning of this discussion how one can call a consciously false claim made in the protection of immunity, for a repeated time, against better knowledge, different from a smooth lie. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: He insists on his behavior!]] And precisely with this means, the colleague Stoisits is acting here in the House. It did not, of course, claim in plenary, as in the Constitutional Committee, that a CD released by the working group of Croatian local politicians had been used by the word "ÖVP" or that it had been financed by the ÖVP or issued by the ÖVP. She did not do this anymore, but it was enough that Mr Kier came out from the Liberals and said: In the Constitutional Committee, I accept, that was the very case of Mr Stoisits, that there is a CD which, in all shame, bears the title of the ÖVP in the text. Mrs Stoisits! In contrast, you claim that the CD "CUJTE" – that's also interesting, that means nothing else but: Listen!, listen, colleague Stoisits – who has been financed from the funding of the groups, is billed by the Federal Chancellery, controlled by the Court of Auditors in a natural way, with which Imprint ÖVP is provided. Mr Stoisits! That's wrong. That was claimed to be repeated by you. I have the original CD here. They have never presented the CD, but only argued in this direction in the Committee, without showing the evidence. I prove here and now that you have deliberately lied, and I stand by it! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If this is your means, Mrs. Stoisits, to pursue national policy in Austria, then you are on the wood road. Especially the greens, who keep the word tolerance, constantly the word charity, or whatever beautiful things and illusions lead on the lips, live in day-to-day operation, live in politics the opposite and argue and act, as the greatest agitators did not do at bad times. [[In the case of the ÖVP and the Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer.]] Mrs Stoisits! There is someone who, when it really matters, can also retaliate accordingly: It's the voters' revenge. And there's a nice indication of how far politics can be achieved when it's polemic when it's agitatorial when it hits under the belt line: that's the voters, the Burgenish voters, the voters in the Croatian communities of the Burgenland. The last National Council election in 1995, the 1996 country elections, the 1996 European elections, have proved decisively. The Greens, especially you, with your argument, Mrs Stoisits, have been chosen classically, in order to say it in your diction, are actually not even visible in trace elements in the Croatian communities of the Burgenland. You, Mrs Stoisits, are helping your part to ensure that the Greens are at least there in the Burgenland, which is naked and without any votes. Use other means, deal correctly with the truth, be it those who do what a sincere parliamentarian does, namely to say what he can prove, and not to lie consciously.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e11812	Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me to say: Everyone sitting in this house knows that on the accusation "lye" stands as a direct personal accusation a call for order. Mr Kiss! President Dr. Fischer gave you a call for order for the term "lying". I give you a call for order for the wording: "They have deliberately lied." But I'd like to appeal to the house here. It is clear to all Members that this is a penalty. Sometimes I feel that this is just as provocative. I really ask to take into account in the future that the use of the word "lying" as a direct accusation to someone in this House draws a call for order. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: Why?]] Deputies! If you look at the comments on the Rules of Procedure, you will find that has always been the case. Mrs Mag. Mag. has spoken. Stoisits. Second word. Speech time available: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e11847	Ladies and gentlemen! There is nothing really to be corrected by Mr Kiss. I would just like to ask you if Mr Dipl.-Ing. Niki Berlakovich ÖVP Landtagsreiter is? Is he – yes or no? [[Abg. May. Steindl: So what?]] It is he who writes his name on a CD produced exclusively from popular funding and adorns himself with means of taxation. [[Subsequent calls to the ÖVP.]] This is a process that I strongly condemn, and this is a policy that will no longer allow the members of the ethnic groups to be liked. [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] If Paul Kiss's policy is because he's been selected to be a national spokesperson of his party, that's his problem. [[Abg. Dr. Schwimmer: You admit, consciously have said the untruth!]] But the peoples will very well register that he is no longer interested in their concerns, but only more for my person, which I am pleased with.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e11912	Member of Parliament Dr. Ofner spoke for the second time. You have announced a voluntary speaking time of 5 minutes. You would have another 10 minutes' speaking time, Mr. Deputies. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e11934	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Parliamentary Kiss has really not got it easy. I don't envy him at all, because he's apparently on his way to the motto: Attack is the best defense. He should tell us who is really hiding behind the working group of Croatian local politicians in the Burgenland. Are these exclusively ÖVP local politicians or not, Paul Kiss? [[Abg. Kiss: No!]] [[Abg. May. Stoisits: Of course!]] Go on! Tell me another guy who's there. Then I'll ask you: On this CD or whatever it is are two titles on it: the name of Mr. Dipl.-Ing. Niki Berlakovich – I don't know who that is, is that a musician or perhaps a parliamentarian? [[Abg. Kiss: The watchman of the club!]] And what else is he? [[Abg. Kiss: Bauer!]] Which party is he with? He'll be Croatia. Is he an ÖVP cream? Or what else? [[Abg. Dr. Khol: vet!]] What else is on the CD? Maybe it's on the CD: Croatian community of local politicians in Burgenland? [[Abg. Dr. Schwimmer: Can a Croatia not be an ÖVPler?]] You talk loud, but I have a microphone. You don't have it easy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In other words, the ÖVP association is seizing, it acts as if it were doing something out of its own pocket, out of the savings of the grandmothers for the people group, and in truth it is all our taxpayers who are being distributed by the Federal Chancellery, and then Mr Niki Berlakovich and the working community of these ÖVP local politicians act as if they were generously considering the people's group from their inheritance. - You don't have it easy, dear Paul!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e12042	I ask you to take the seats. We shall come to the vote. We shall first vote on the request of the Constitutional Committee to take note of this report by the Federal Government on the promotion of groups in 1995 (on III-58 of the supplements). Whoever is in favour of taking note of this report, I would ask for a sign of approval. The report has been largely taken note of. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Posch, Steibl and comrades concerning Styrian Slovenians and People's Advisory Council. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign of approval. This motion for a resolution has been adopted by a majority. (E 44.) Deputies Mag. Barmüller has submitted a self-employed application concerning the inclusion of the Styrian Slovenians in the People's Advisory Council for the Slovenian People's Group, which bears only one signature, namely the signature of the Mag. Barmüller. This request is therefore not sufficiently supported. Therefore, according to § 26 para. 5 Rules of Procedure, and ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to support this request in addition, who have not yet expressed it by their signature, to give an appropriate sign. – The support question has been found by the majority. The necessary additional support is provided. The application will be copied and distributed immediately. 4. Point Report of the Building Committee on the Government Template (424 of the Supplements): Federal Road Novelties 1996 (595 of Supplements) 5. Point Report by the Committee on Construction, Public Health and Consumer Protection on Amendment No 166/A (E) by Mr Peter Rosenstinglund Comrades on North-Walking Enns (596 of the Supplements) 6. Point Report by the Building Committee on Amendment No 200/A (E) by Mrs Ing. Mathias Reichholdand comrades on the immediate implementation of road construction projects in the Federal Republic of Carinthia (597 of the Supplements) 7. Point Report by the Building Committee on Amendment 201/A (E) by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Thomas Prinzhornand comrades on the implementation of a package of measures to support the crisis-stricken construction industry (598 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e12163	We now come to points 4 to 7 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. Oral reporting has not been required. We are immediately entering the debate. Mr Magistrate has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm Please, honourable Member. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e12193	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! For the liberals, the Federal Roads Act is not a controversial issue, I would like to say this in the opening, because we have always taken action to ensure that administrative simplifications and deregulations are achieved when these are in the interests of the economy and when they reduce the state bureaucracy. The current novel, ladies and gentlemen, is not a matter of far-reaching importance, but at least a step in the right direction if you want to do so, a suitable instrument, one of several suitable instruments, which is why we are happy to give our consent here. Ladies and gentlemen! We are aware that the administrative burden is increased under the existing Environmental Impact Act, and we are also essential provisions of the EIA Act. But all the more necessary it seems to us that there are also simplifications on the other hand when it comes, for example, to the adoption of road regulations or to minor changes in the Federal Road Register. So far, so good to the Federal Road Law. In the Committee's negotiations, there was broad consensus on this, with the exception of the Greens who wanted to raise the question of road construction once again on the principle debate. We have joined the arguments of the government group. But there are three further requests from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and there is, as was not expected, a very great consensus. Ladies and gentlemen! The proposals submitted by us eight months ago, in May 1996, are first and foremost on ice for eight months, as is so commonplace with oppositional applications, in order to be rejected by the other four political groups in the Committee, with justifiable arguments. That doesn't bother me any more. It is only interesting to note that the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs, who is known to be the Federal Road Authority, has not declared himself responsible for any of the requests for freedom. Although he has a place in which the public construction industry is located, he has not declared himself responsible – no matter whether it is the north-pass of Ennstrasse or the Kärntner Bundesstraßen programme or our request for accompanying measures for the recovery of the construction industry. You, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have always used the same position in the Committee that you are simply not responsible. [[Abg. Blünegger: What is he responsible for?]] Mr Blünegger! I have long noticed that the Minister of State likes to ignore his responsibility, and he always does so when it becomes unpleasant. I would remind you that the Federal Minister also referred to the question of the Vignette affair, that he was not actually responsible for the award and appointment of the managing directors, because there were supervisory councils and so on. Federal Minister! You are fleeing – I hope you will not take it in a moment, but that is a finding – in the event of unpleasant things, you like to be incompetent, and that can't be it. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In view of the increasing incompetence in the future, I may have to reverse my question and ask what you are responsible for. I am right, but tell the House that, tell the parliamentarians, and don't leave us in the dark any longer. Ladies and gentlemen! As far as the Carinthian Federal Road Programme is concerned, I would like to say that the Federal Minister has misinformed the Committee. I do not propose to you, Mr Federal Minister, that any unfair intentions be put into my shoes and that populism accuses me of knowingly saying the untruth, Mr Federal Minister, but you are quite certain that you have been misinformed or you have negated or not taken note of what has been said to you. It's bad enough if you ignore it or don't know it, because misinformation paired with this incompetence syndrome, that's a thing I don't think is portable. Federal Minister! You said in committee that it was not for you, but for the freedom of the building agents, if our motion for a resolution did not implement the required Carinthian construction projects. You said that in committee. I went to the bottom of the matter. I asked the Carinthian construction officer again. Our motion for a resolution contains a total of 16 construction projects under the chapter on repair work. Eight of these 16 construction projects, Mr. Federal Minister, in the course of the budget talks with the Kärntner Baureferent, you have rejected with the Office of the Kärntner State Government. For the eight remaining construction projects under the chapter "Rehabilitations", including Tauernautobahn and A 2, you have not yet released all the funds. But you say in the committee that you are not responsible, and I should like to contact the road builder of the country of Carinthia, who is supposed to do so. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] So I've got to go. You have already asked, Mr Federal Minister, how you actually imagine whether the Committee is a jux or an event for general pleasure. The fact is: Some of these applications were rejected by you, by your ministry, for another part the funds are not released, and only a very small part is located at the stage of getting realized. Which does not mean that they are already realized, but there can soon start construction work. Ladies and gentlemen! This is the truth, and I have also obtained the official confirmation of what I have said from the Office of the Carinthian Government, and I will give it to you. It is quite clear here that in 1997 some 80 million Schillings could be implemented by the Federal Road Administration. Then there is a whole series of projects, a total of 200 million schillings, but the state government writes: Part of it, 80 million – things that are inside our request – could be realized. And you say to the committee that we can contact the Carinthian farmers. - Wonderful! Federal Minister! The statement that the Carinthians had the money and it would have been made available on the part of the Ministry is, I believe, quite clearly contradicted. Although construction contracts amounting to 80 million schillings – as measured by other construction projects – are only a small one, but after all, they are tending to be suitable for reducing unemployment. After all, projects ranging from 80 to 100 million schillings to the duration of 6 to 8 months can be used to employ about 200 people in construction, in other words in the construction season, and, of course, there are multiplier effects that I do not want to talk about here. The fact is, however, that this is an essential signal in a local environment to deal with unemployment. But they did not do that! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I cannot, Mr Federal Minister, ask you to accept this in the future. I can only ask you to look at your budget again, make re-transmissions and perhaps talk to the Kärntner Landbauferenten again. It won't be up to us. We do not, of course, blame ourselves for acting populistly, as formulated in the committee for the Carinthian municipal elections, but we want to show a sign of offensive employment. [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! Finally, I appeal to you, especially if what you have said in the Committee proves to be incorrect, to take our proposals more seriously in the future. It would be a clear signal from you, and you would truly be a better minister for the public economy if you were to take advantage of your predecessor, who negated everything that came from the free will. You're not a better minister yet, but you have the chance to become it. Please take care not to lie to us.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e12283	The honourable Member's friend has been reported to speak. - Please. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e12305	Federal Minister! My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen! This Federal Roads Act is necessary because the administrative and time burden has increased dramatically through the Environmental Impact Act, especially in smaller projects on the construction and reconstruction of road pieces, in the construction of crossing structures, i.e. in the case of circular facilities, which are used to increase the flow of traffic in the crossing area. However, serious changes, which may be necessary, should be in line with the process in the EU countries. The aim of this amendment is not to affect the concerns of citizens and the environment. However, it must be ensured that negotiated projects, which are necessary, can also be implemented quickly. This amendment extends the legal consequences of the Federal Road Planning Area. It will facilitate connections of the sub-road network to feeder roads. It can be realized as soon as possible by the consent of the countries and communities concerned to the construction of additional individual disasters at existing ports or nodes. Even newly built federal roads, protective buildings, which are necessary, for example, to prevent floods, land slides and other environmental disasters, or to address such disasters, can be quickly realized without citizen participation procedures. It cannot be within the meaning of the EIA Act to take protective measures against natural disasters of an extensive environmental impact assessment if action is to be taken quickly. Also, the registration of a second roadway, if the distance to the road is no more than five meters, is considered to be a special case of a spread of the road. An exception to the construction ban, which exists within a protection zone on existing federal roads A, S and B, is intended to be achieved by the consent declaration of the Federal Road Administration. A procedure shall be provided for if such consent is denied. Ladies and gentlemen! Less bureaucracy and administrative burden are the demands of the citizens on politics every day. Less bureaucracy creates work. With this new law, we can certainly make a contribution in this direction. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] In particular, at a time when labour market problems exist, the construction sector must take the lead in creating employment. The Federal Government is also responding accordingly. Minister for Economic Affairs Farnleitner presented a programme for 1997 which includes employment-saving measures. The construction industry in particular has a high level of employment, because it also gives positive impetus to the construction sector. The Ministry of Economic Affairs will invest around 8.8 billion in the building and 10.5 billion in road construction. Furthermore, construction measures in the environmental field, in environmental promotion, in the urban water sector are planned and an additional 6 billion schilling will be invested in the old-age renovation. In the Ministry of Agriculture, measures within the protection water industry are planned to provide 2.6 billion schilling to mention just a few examples of the Federal Government's employment programme. As my previous speaker, Mr Firlinger, asked what this Minister of Economic Affairs is responsible for, I would like to oppose his accusation, because it is precisely the measures I mentioned earlier that the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs has been fully committed to so that they can also be implemented within the Federal Government. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Despite these necessary savings in the federal budget, it is simply necessary that employment policy is not neglected. These projects can secure and create around 50 000 jobs. Thus, the construction industry is an important engine for the Austrian economy. I can add the following amendment to this amendment of the Federal Road Act: [[Quoted print version removed]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! As a member of the Austrian People's Party, I welcome the amendments to the Federal Road Act and the impulses in the construction sector and, of course, I agree with this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e12420	The amendment just tabled is sufficiently supported and is included in the negotiations. Mr President, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. - Please. 15 minutes of voluntary time limit.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e12444	Mr President. Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Don't worry, I won't take those 15 minutes! So many important chapters in the transport and construction sector and so little speaking time for the greens – and for themselves a pity! But still, it's true: Go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We have clearly and clearly deposited our opinion in the Committee on the Federal Roads Act. First question: Why do so many novels occur in such short intervals? This does not mean that the legislator and the parties who have passed these laws – the key word "EIA law" – is too good a witness. Criticism point number two: Whenever it comes to exclusion from citizens, ÖVP and, unfortunately, God's SPÖ are at hand very quickly, and then the term "administrative simplification". The excluded citizen is a "administrative simplification". This is a somewhat peculiar formulation. The excluded citizens will also be grateful for this. I quite agree with what the Federal Chamber of Labour has basically formulated for consideration, namely that there have been ongoing dismantling steps in recent months – keywords "EIA-Law-Novelle", "Bundesstraßengesetznovelle" from last November. In perfect agreement with the Greens, the Bundes-AK states literally – I quote – that: All in all, these schemes will lead to the continued substantial preference of road transport towards rail transport. The Federal Chamber of Labour therefore considers that such new, new and remodelled constructions should continue to carry out an environmental assessment, which also takes into account cross-carriage aspects and assesses transport policy objectives. If necessary, improvements will be implemented in the EIA procedure, thereby in the EIA law. That's the problem. We have moved materials from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection into the Committee on Buildings, and those who know the different occupations, the different interests of the Committee on Buildings and the Committee on the Environment, know that this, of course, had its reason. We will not be able to agree to this further disassembly with regard to citizens' participation. Another point: the northern crossing of Enns. This is a classic example for me, as I believe in the policy of road construction and transport, and it is completely indifferent which country it is concerned. Almost before elections, the mayors affected each come with a long wish list. The same is true of the Carinthian road construction project. The list is served by the Minister out of the drawer, and this would probably require a 15 to 20 times as large road construction budget as the present one, in order to be able to satisfy all the regional interests, which are still politically sometimes – not in this particular case – highly questionable. There is an indication in the Upper Austrian public that there will be a start-up of this northern crossing of Enns until 2005. I am now saving myself the right side towards applicants, like wrong competence. The question is, of course, whether the Minister of Economic Affairs is responsible for a priority series or rather his own national authority. But the crucial question is: Can this promise actually be made to the Upper Austrian public, namely the completion by 2005? On my part, it was very positive to note that the main point of criticism was presented by the Minister himself at the committee meeting, if I remember correctly. The Minister will certainly correct me if I bring a wrong quote. He also criticised the fact that one realizes a growth node in the port sector – the project is basically positive, the port project Enns is an exciting project – without the necessary transport infrastructure connection. That's cockbucks, and because of this situation we have huge traffic problems in Enns, in Asten. We have far too little rail relocation rates and are now facing a situation that has become completely unbearable for the regional population. There are also safety risks, such as gas transports in the middle of a densely built village. This cannot be accepted, there is a classical political planning mistake. The Minister in the Committee has said that this is actually a case for literature. I can only join him. There must now be quickly repaired. I myself believe that a repair by a motorway connection in this area would be more short-term and economical. But you have to look at that in detail. We have the same situation in Carinthia. The municipal elections are under way, and now a long list of road construction projects are being introduced into Parliament. Every local politician can then say: Please, we have already presented this to the Minister for Economic Affairs if he does not let money jump, then that is not our fault! The black regional politicians say: That's Vienna. They are not saying that this is an EIA politician. The red politicians say: This is Vienna's ÖVP politician. And the liberals say: These are the old parties of Vienna. Mr Reichhold, it is not possible to get on with transport policy. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: colleague! We submitted our request a year ago! There was no mention of municipal council elections yet!]] All right, then it is precisely the favor of the time that just before the Carinthian municipal elections these requests are now in the plenary session. Minister! I cannot spare you – and I now ask this question for the third time – to answer the question of financing many road construction projects: How's the ÖVP? I've put this on today: In fact, how does the ÖVP feel about the Federal Road Financing Act, which it itself decided with the Social Democracy about a year ago, which specifically provides for the introduction of road pricing, for trucks in 1998, for passenger cars from which revenue is to be financed the road construction projects so requested by the ÖVP regional politicians? Minister! You have not answered the committee, and you have not given me an answer today. For the third time, I ask the question: How does your Austrian People's Party stand for road pricing? If the ÖVP really wants what Kukacka and Schüssel say, namely, an introduction of road pricing only in the European equation, then I must ask you, Minister: Who is to finance the road construction projects which I do not need, but which the EIA regional politicians are constantly calling for? Does this mean funding from the normal budget – despite the budget crisis? Personally, I can't imagine that. I would expect the clear, serious answer that such financing from the normal budget is simply illusory and not useful if, at the same time, we ask for minimum pensioners, single parents et cetera, to be paid at the same time. And if no, does that mean a new list of priorities for road construction? Because if the road pricing does not come and no cross-financing from the normal budget is carried out, then a number of road projects cannot be financed. It is fair and serious to say that. If at least 3 to 4 billion schilling of revenue is lost by the lack of road pricing and by the reduction of vignette revenue, then according to Adam Rieese, 3 to 4 billion schilling a year is missing to finance the road construction projects required by you, my dear ladies and gentlemen from the ÖVP. Somehow you need to explain not only to me, but also to the public how this magic trick works. I am glad that Mr Firlinger has today only expanded the building concept of the liberals, quite contrary to the committee meeting, where there has been a rather embarrassing debate due to various differences in wording between the real and sometimes very different proposals of free politicians over the course of the days, weeks and months. Last point: an actual contribution to boosting the construction economy from the green side. At least above Austrian politicians, Mrs Fekter, I am trying to be very careful now when it comes to boosting the construction industry. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Lambach!]] Mr Fekter is listening to this, and I am glad that I can be sure of her voice. It is about the following: We have all heard with joy – this is the first great success of the Czech and Austrian environmental movement – that the Prague-Livez motorway route should not be built from the Czech side. All politicians in Upper Austria, across the political camps, were aware that this is a positive signal. I know that a bit of concrete in the region would not be bad, but we will find other projects, for example a rail route, where even more employment effects can be achieved than in the road construction sector. The proposal of all the political parties in Upper Austria was an alternative to the expansion of the Summerauer Bahn, the railway line between Linz and Prague. In order for this project to finally become concrete, we are putting forward today a motion for a resolution on the implementation of this extension. I would like to present it now: [[Quoted print version removed]] ==References== I think that is a very important point. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! As soon as the Upper Austrian country election is over, you will realize what you are always announcing in our common home country of Upper Austria, and I am therefore quite sure that this green request will receive an overwhelming majority in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e12527	The motion for a resolution just presented is sufficiently supported and is included in the negotiations. Mr Eder has now been notified to the House. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e12552	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The inconspicuous novelle of the Bundesstraßengesetz contains essentially administrative simplifications in connection with the adoption of road regulations, reliefs with regard to the exception of the ban on construction along the Bundesstraßen and an amendment to the Federal Road Register. The aim of the amendment is to speed up the implementation of minor expansion and conversion measures on existing federal roads. For example, crossovers, the construction of additional individual ramps at existing terminals or nodes, and the construction of a second direction road, which runs at a distance of no more than five metres to the previous roadway. Of course, it is important to find a balance between the necessary procedural accelerations – I say here a "balance", Mr Anschober, – and the legitimate interests of citizens and the interests of the environment. This compensation is also intended to result in employment effects, particularly in times like these, as quickly as possible. With regard to road construction, I would like to talk about a subject that has been discussed for years, namely the restructuring and management of the high-level road network. As I have pointed out several times from this point of view, the merger of ASFINAG, ÖSAG and ASG is currently in the foreground of the management of the high-level road network in Austria. This not only, ladies and gentlemen, in order to be able to break out the road debts of ASFINAG from public debt, but also, in particular, to create functioning structures in the field of road subsidiaries, which hopefully will make less contributions to the international cabaret culture in the future than we have already experienced. Ladies and gentlemen! The concept of reorganising the high-level road network is well known, so that I do not have to carry it out here anymore. However, both the breakdown of ASFINAG street debt and the introduction of road pricing for trucks have not been particularly soothing lately. On the one hand, I would like to point out that the rapid implementation of road pricing for trucks – we have adopted a law here with timetable and precise framework conditions – is still beyond doubt for me, especially since the technical feasibility of the industry is always confirmed. This House has decided on concrete dates for implementation, and I believe that we should also comply with them. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Secondly, I am sorry that a situation has occurred in the area of merger of road companies, which reminds me of the last merger of road companies I have already worked on. Sub-optimal solutions are suddenly in space, as some federal states obviously explore the emerging needs consciously or unconsciously. The various statements that Austria would reach the convergence criteria without the allocation of ASFINAG and therefore do not have a time pressure, is at the heart of my opinion passing. Even if the debt criterion were reached in such a way that countries do not, of course, provide a guarantee, non-activating in the area of the management of the high-level road network means a continuation in part inefficient structures. I should like to remind you that, at the time of the merger between road companies, two of these companies were considered only the first step towards merger. If, therefore, the merger model is rejected by certain federal states, I expect at least one counter-proposal, which also meets the two objectives mentioned. In particular, the problem of contract management needs to be solved here in order to enable the new road company to provide the full accounting and decision-making freedom required by the European Union in the implementation of the main functions, including maintenance. Should a kind of holding be established instead of the merger of the road subsidiaries with ASFINAG, this is also a model, but certainly not the optimal solution. In any event, such a holding should clearly act as a parent company and not as a mere investment management. This means that you would have to transfer all strategic functions and decisions, such as financing, controlling, planning or implementation of road pricing. Road pricing is to be put on professional legs in the planning of my opinion. All these problems must be solved in the coming weeks. There is no time left for politically motivated tickles. I therefore urge, ladies and gentlemen, once again to the politicians of the local authorities concerned, to reach a consensus here as quickly as possible with the Federal Minister for Buildings. - Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e12615	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Reichhold. - Please. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e12636	High house! Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I have listened very carefully to my previous speaker's speech, and I must say that it is already a bit interesting if we are to welcome the distribution of road administrations into the special societies. They are familiar with the empirical surveys on the cost comparisons between the road companies and the state and federal road administrations located in the countries. The maintenance costs per kilometre of travel are in the special companies... [[Abg. Eder: They stay with the countries!]] Yes, but there is a comparison between those sections in the administration of the countries and those in charge of the special companies. And you simply cannot dispute, Mr President, that there is an average of 20 to 25 per cent higher maintenance costs per km. This is proof that there are still considerable savings and rationalization measures. I really have to tell you: This construction is only to be maintained because, as I say, it is now deliberately provocative, it is being misused in order to meet the Maastricht criteria. Therefore, you can also understand our position: We liberals have never been able to get rid of these solutions because they are inefficient, because they are not implemented rationally enough, and because, of course, they also provoke double liquefactions between the federal government, countries and the special societies. There are very large emptyings which, of course, are difficult to achieve in the internal execution of the project. I believe that we should really confess to a slender state in order to achieve good structures. But now, Minister of State, for the very reason I have spoken. I have already had the opportunity to explain briefly what the situation in the Federal Republic of Carinthia looks like. The unemployment rate was around 9 percent in Austria at the end of January. In Carinthia, on the other hand, it was not 9 percent, but almost 15 percent, and exactly 14.9%. This trend has already occurred in 1994 during the accession negotiations with the European Union. I can remember very well how many prominent federal politicians came to Carinthia before the National Council elections, before the EU accession negotiations and before the vote in Carinthia and said to the Carinthian population: Friends, you don't need to be afraid, we're making a so-called pick-up billion, so special projects in federal building, in federal road construction are carried out! Today, three years after these promises, we have to say: It's almost nothing flown to Carinthia. It was the former Federal Chancellor in Carinthia, who had promised large amounts of this catch-up billion in a press conference, later the Finance Minister in Carinthia, who repeated this, was also the Federal Minister of Economic Affairs and Construction of the Federal Government in Carinthia, who promised the Carinthia the millions. We've been dizzy already and we've thought, now we're going a little further. Nothing's come! The citizens of the European Union are therefore getting more money from the European Union in terms of the Objective 1 area regulation. Carinthia was promised, at least before accession to the EU, a target 2 area regime. We did not get these, however, only after accession to the EU, because this area has been exchanged with other regions of Austria. Because of these permanent disadvantages, these promises, which have been given to Carinthia over and over again by the federal policy, but have not been kept, we have of course come to a halt and today have a very threatening situation in the field of employment in Carinthia. That was also my motivation, why, Mr Anschober, not only now, before the municipal elections, but almost a year ago I made this request here in the house. The fact that he is being discussed today, before the municipal elections in Carinthia, should be right, but I do not see any connection, and if you are honest, you too will not be able to recognize any connection. Nevertheless – and this is the point to which I must address you, Mr Federal Minister: If I find today that Carinthia is again receiving only the normal tranches, as they also get from other federal states, and no more word is said about the fact that the promises made by their predecessors in Carinthia are also being fulfilled, then we must vehemently cry out here. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I can only appeal to you, Mr Federal Minister, although I know that you personally cannot do anything because at the time you did not bear the political responsibility. Nevertheless, you cannot be released from the political obligation. Anything else would be smooth for me. I therefore call on you not to become verbal, but to finally deliver these promises and to give Carinthia with a higher tranche, with a special construction programme to improve the workplace situation in Carinthia.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e12682	The next speaker is Mr Dr Kier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e12703	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to turn to the agenda items that we are negotiating under a single one and first deal briefly with the Federal Roads Act. We have already agreed to it in committee, and it will also be approved in plenary, because it is, after all, a novel which means that we are taking a small step towards a more efficient administration. However, I believe that this amendment has become necessary because a comprehensive reform of the procedures has not taken place until today, namely a comprehensive reform which would result in the gradual, this salamitactic approval of projects – a project that has begun needs an approval at first, then it will be negotiated, then a new approval will take place, then the EIA will come and the project will change again – that we will transform this step-by-step sequence of quartz permits into a gradual process at the end of which is the legal form of approval. We might sometimes save ourselves from this deregulation by means of new regulation. In this case, however, a step is taking place in the right direction, and we are glad that this time a path has been chosen that has a slightly clearer focus on the objective to be pursued, namely, environmentally compatible road construction – however, this quickly, quickly and economically. I therefore believe that this amendment is also acceptable from the point of view of an opposition party. As far as Agenda items 5 to 7 are concerned, the matter is a little more complex, because the concerns behind these requests are taken for themselves if you put them on the green meadow. But in the north of Enns apert there is a problem which affects the Federal Minister only marginally, because the fact that there are two federal states, namely Lower Austria and Upper Austria, that are structurally unreasonable, that they have not coordinated themselves in time, that they have failed politically will not be better by asking the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs to do something that he cannot produce himself. Of course, he shares political responsibility in this case, but he is the passive part of this game, the one who suffers from what does not happen there. That is why the concern is correct, because it would certainly be very useful to take a firm look at these growth nodes created by the port of Enns, but the motion for a resolution under item 5 of the agenda would not change that. Because that Parliament represents this opinion, an attentive observer who has followed this debate can see, but I do not think that a head of state will be really irritated by the cutting of a pühringer. He will continue to do what he thinks is right, and perhaps deal with the Lambbach project rather than with the Enns growth node. He will look for his eternality in projects that may carry his name tag, but the northern drive of Enns is of course not so well suited for it. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: Fuhringer-Promenade!]] Therefore, one must understand that he is not so particularly interested in it. In addition, the Port Enns project would indeed have an economic significance and an infrastructural impact, a positive one. But this does not seem to be the state of economic policy in Upper Austria, and I am also saying this quite consciously in view of the fact that we have elections in this country in autumn - the National Council in Upper Austria, which is responsible for economic affairs, does not seem to have recognized the problem. If he had recognized it, he would probably have done something, because otherwise he is also very quick with his sayings, but not apparently in the actions. [[Abg. Aumayr: Only by the proverbs!]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Who is this?]] [[Abg. Aumayr: The Leitel!]] The question of the projects which have been opened in the Federal Republic of Carinthia is, of course, very separate from the inside – I am quite honest with you – because I am aware that the application is certainly completely correct and completely objective – yes, yes – because I can imagine that the competent Council of State, which is not far from the group of applicants, is able, with the help of its employees, to list the open projects almost completely. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: You are an old Carinthian!]] It is also in the Committee's view that the list of projects is coming from the government representatives, from the Federal Minister and from his Ladies and gentlemen from the resort did not object. So the project list has not been criticized. However, we have been told – and that would be something that will still be discussed – that we have not really been very plausible and, in principle, in committee; I would like to say this clearly – that the projects are already in a state in which the actual management has already been transferred to the road building operators of the country. The chairman of the Building Committee, Mr Schwimmer, has formulated that this is, in fact, a distrustful vote against the Kärntner Landesstraßenbauferenten. Now this may not be true for every single project on this list, but apparently there is a resolution store here – that is recognizable – and there is apparently also funding for it. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: No money!]] Maybe not enough. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: No money! There is no money, my colleague.]] I say yes, Mr Reichhold, perhaps not enough; Mr. Anschober has already illuminated this. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Pure promises!]] It may be that the Federal Government's hesitant attitude on road pricing and the revenue it does not generate in the sense of cost-truth in the transport sector is a reason for budgetary approaches to be tight. Only: That's another problem. In the end, this is a problem a) of budgeting – that is perhaps something corrupt by the Federal Finance Act, I say now, because the Federal Finance Act no longer provides – it is a problem of the entire attitude of the Federal Government to philosophy cost-truth in transport, yes or no, saying road-pricing with planned implementation periods and so on. There is general silence. In the meantime, we have brought the Vignettettman into the world and, by the way, we ourselves have been badly damaged in tourism. I would like to say this again: This may have cost more of a loss of revenue in the return on the way than we have earned in the phase one of the vignettes. This will always remain a dark point, but it is to be feared that at least it was not a good image policy. But Image is something that is urgently needed in tourism, because people come here because of an immaterial assessment and also because of the hope that they find reasonable prices. If they have a negative assessment, they fail. – That's just a footnote to that. One thing for me, however, is certain: This list seems to be so long, because there is a project store that may also be the responsibility of the Landesstraßenbauferent and Deputy Head of State. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: No, no, that has other causes!]] We cannot negotiate this, but I know for sure, Mr Firlinger: For a time, the road builder has been working on how to control the awards he has to make. There has now been a semantic confusion as to whether this was a warning that companies should not come to the train, which do not exclusively employ nationals or EU citizens, or whether it was just a discussion process within the national administration. It's not known. At any rate, he has apparently been concerned about how he does not forgive orders. Because that's certain for me: If he actually wanted to carry out this philosophy in the Carinthia region in the field of the projects to be carried out by him, he could not have been able to afford a project at all, and then he would not have had any more pains with very narrow budget approaches. If I can no longer command any company that falls under the definition of the State Captain Grasser – that was the idea, and that is also the programme, I hear; this is only currently stuck in the rule of law – then I could not write off any more than a construction order, because I would have to expect that somewhere in the company's chain at least the cleaning woman employed there may not have Austrian or EU citizenship. And then I would be a problem. If someone who is responsible for the speedy execution of projects deals with such questions that I do not want to continue to assess in depth politically now, then perhaps he will be able to issue the open list of uncompleted projects at his National Council Group, but apparently not to his actual business. That's my impression. I'm sorry, because I grew up in Carinthia myself, so I love and value everything that's good for Carinthia. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Bad enough for Carinthia!]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Mr Colleague, an interim question!]] Please, I'm all ears, I'm happy to debate. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Would you once be ready to come to Carinthia and join a speech day where you have young, willing to work, as much as you want?]] Yes, Mr Reichhold, this is a problem. It is recognized that it is accepted, but this cannot be led to cast all the principles of the rule of law overboard and, for the first time in this Republic, to use the means of the rule of law to enforce clear intentions. That doesn't solve the problem! [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: You said that there can no longer be any construction, there are so many unemployed!]] Look, if you think that this is a problem – and this is a problem – then it is in particular a problem of the failure of Carinthian economic policy, and in this your party is significantly involved by the proportional arrangements! – and that's not... [[Abg. May. Barmüller: There was even a national captain!]] There has been a liberal state captain, there is a liberal state captain representative, and Carinthia is one of the countries that does not...... and Carinthia is one of the countries... [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: There we had 4 percent unemployed!]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: 4 percent unemployed we have had under the head of state Haider! Now we have 15 percent!]] Mr President. Maybe you can help me speak, because I'm getting a little nervous right now. [[Further calls to the liberals.]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] Carinthia is one of the federal states which, under the vital responsibility of the Freeman, clearly demonstrates miserable economic data. [[Ongoing calls for tender in the liberals]] That's right. I am not talking about sole responsibility, but about co-responsibility, and the Member of the State Head of State in particular is responsible for an economic sector. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: But bad!]] I know that the structural problems in Carinthia are difficult to solve, but this cannot lead to any temptation to make blatant legal violations a means of day-to-day administration. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: He fails in federal politics!]] [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] If he wants to have that, then he has to change laws, but at the time there is no majority in this country in any of the local authorities who are willing to pass laws that are as clear as what Land Captain Deputy Grasser wanted to achieve with an instruction. It is legitimate to pursue such an objective. We will always reject the objective, not the goal of employment, but the goal of defaming people with such means. If you want to, you have to say this openly and seek majority voting for it, and I will work to ensure that there are no majority in favour of it, but ordinary administrative action is not suitable for that. Please note! It's illegal! And if a person takes illegal action in administrative action, he must be allowed to say that too. And that's what I meant. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] The fact that we have a target conflict here is obvious. But you know very well that the problem of structural unemployment, particularly in the construction sector, is not a specific carnivorous problem, but rather that it employs Austria as a whole. You know that we have a real problem here due to productivity increases and declining construction volumes. You know that we have a hated foreign regime. You know all of this. But that – that was to say here – was not the right way. This was not only illegal – it was taken back, I hear –, it was also populist, and of course that was only timeed for the country elections. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: We have already rejected this in committee. That's wrong!]] I can understand. That's a way to make PR. I understand that, but it is unfair because it is our jobless construction workers, the Austrian citizens, or perhaps EU citizens, that they solve their problem with such means. But they do not solve it with these means. This is at most perhaps, possibly, temporarily painful, but the problem is not solved. In addition, this is a very high price, namely the price of the task of fundamental legal principles of the Constitution, of fundamental principles of the Convention on Human Rights. That's a price that's a little high. At least for us, he would be too high, and I know relatively well here with the vast majority of the House. This is a price that is too high, and there can be written in the newspapers, whatever wants, and be twisted, whatever wants, that remains the matter. I wanted to say this in this context, because anyone who is so concerned about his federal state but at the same time wants to advance an X for a U, who is losing for me somewhere in democratic, humanitarian and fellow human credibility, and it was just important to me to say this here. That is why I believe that, as Mr Schwimmer, an old-fashioned parliamentarian, who is far away, has just said, as committee chairman, that this is actually an attempt to make a mistrust against the Carinthian road builders. I do not have anything to add to this as a substantial member of Parliament and not a chairman of this committee. He will probably have been right in his assessment. Agenda item 7: This is now the macabre request, which is a request which contains a mixture of interesting approaches – I now spare myself of bringing them here to the lecture – because there are thoughts that – I would say – are positive in terms of economic policy and are therefore taken for themselves because of their materiality fractional neutral. We could discuss that. But there are also elements that are so to speak – Mr. Anschober has already suggested this – very interesting from their economic-political-historical dimension. We only recently have here in this house, namely on 18 November. Feber, had a meeting at which we were presented with strength, the investment exemption had to be abolished very quickly, because the creation of jobs – in a certain context – would be possible. Today, we are negotiating the request made by Mr Prinzhorn, Mr Schöll and Mr Haigermoser to increase the amount of investment in certain projects, particularly in the field of construction for direct operational purposes. [[Abg. May. Peter: What's right now?]] Now I'm wondering, Is this the half-life of economic policy, which has led to a loss of time? It may be that something that was considered to be correct in May 1996, namely the increase in the investment allowance, in January or February 1997, is recognized as wrong. It could be. However, I cannot imagine why the Committee on Budgets did not withdraw this request at least on this point. Nevertheless, the request would have remained true if one had withdrawn this passage by means of an amendment. Second aspect: In the special session of 18 this month, we learned that, in the view of the Liberal Group, the construction of tunnels is, in any case, completely insignificant for the labour market. This was a statement made several times here and was also an element of motions for resolutions, on the grounds that the number of direct physical employees in tunnel construction projects is not known to be very high. - So far, so good. However, this motion for a resolution explicitly calls for tunnel construction to be forced because it is particularly favourable for jobs and the construction industry. The question arises again: What's right? What is in this request, or what we heard during the special session? – I mean: Since the request is older and the special meeting of earlier dates, it would have been possible to correct the request on this point in the course of the Committee's deliberations. That is why I think to conclude, because my colleague is showing me and I am afraid that the rest of the time will be too short: This application is proof of economic popularity and incompetence. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e13044	Mr Ing. Reichhold has reported an actual correction. Deputies! You have 2 minutes of speaking time. Start with the allegation Dr. Kiers wants you to correct. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e13072	Mr President. Dr. Kier claimed that Landeshuptmann Deputy Grasser had given an instruction that was unlawful. - That's wrong. First of all, that was not an instruction; second, it was not illegal. I lead as proof... [[Intrusions of the Abg. May. Barmüller and Abg. Dr. Kier.]] Just like that! First of all, that was not an instruction. [[Further calls to the Liberal Forum.]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] And if it were one, it wouldn't have been illegal. [[Further call of the Abg. May. Barmüller.]] Now take care, Barmüller! I am now reading to you a statement from the Constitutional Service of the Office of the Carinthian Government of 24. 2nd this year before, so it's quite fresh. It reads: "The side of the office of Mr. Landeshuptmann Deputy Mag. Grasser proposed "(non-binding) recommendation in the tendering conditions for construction contractors to consider the critical situation of the domestic labour market when carrying out public construction projects" seems to be acceptable." That is why this is not illegal, Mr. Volker Kier! [[Abg. May. Barmüller: That was two days ago before the whole thing became reckable!]] I don't know, do you need sedative tablets? You'll get some, but now listen! [[Abg. May. Barmüller: Was it perhaps an assigned officer who had to write that which is subordinated to the grass?]] Second point: Parliamentary Kier claims that structural unemployment is equally spread across Austria. – That too is wrong. Structural unemployment is above average in Carinthia. I'll bring the evidence, Mr. Kier: While long-term unemployment increased by 4.9% in Austria from 1995 to 1996, long-term unemployment in Carinthia increased not by 4.9%, but by 20 percent. And that is why we call for initiatives for a federal country that has not come to the benefit of the EU's Objective 1 regional development.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e13146	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl. - Please. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e13168	Mr President. Mr. Minister! It would, of course, be tempting to go into the dirty dome campaign by the liberal sympathizer Dr. Kier. As an opposition party, however, we prefer to deal with the government rather than with the other opposition parties. Only so much: The liberals can still serve in this way, the traffic lights will probably not come about. But stay calm! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] However, it will not help the government or the Carinthian unemployed if you continue your statements in this way. Mr. Minister! At the last meeting of the Building Committee I learned how many things you are not actually responsible for. We have seen there that you are not actually responsible for road construction, infrastructure development, planning work or package of measures to stimulate the construction industry. Minister! Her ministry was once referred to as the "Mammut Ministry". Mammuts are extinct, but there are still large ministries. This raises the question of whether such a large ministry, if the skills are as small as you have described in the Building Committee, is at all necessary. Ladies and gentlemen! We all here in this House acknowledge that we need a well-developed infrastructure and that a priority task of the State is to develop infrastructure to preserve healthy, prosperous companies. A year ago, you welcomed the fact that there will be billions for the construction industry. It's interesting how fast everything changes: I've got a picture here from 11. ==References== In the meantime, many of these illustrative rounds, around 80 percent of the ministers pictured there, have already disappeared in the political sinking. At that time, an elephant round was spoken. They spoke of 33 billion schillings being invested. They said, "No, no, no, no, Now the sleeves are tightened up and it's going on! The next day, on 12. April, writes the Styrian "Small Newspaper": "Instead of billions of packages, there's a bridge there." – And that is probably the reason why we need this law now, in order to carry out minimal projects smoothly, because perhaps at least some of these impulses for the construction industry go out. It is stated in the paper that 1996 has not been a particularly good year for the construction industry, because only very few ready-to-eat projects were in place, but it will be the year of calls for tenders. And after it has been properly written out, 1997 will be so properly launched; then it will begin to build! But what actually happened this year? – Something essential has happened: We have got the vignette, whose proceeds should serve to bring the projects to the proper start of 33 billion schilling within the framework of this infrastructure offensive. So we have the vignette, whether the proceeds have been adjusted as expected, we do not know. However, the introduction of the vignette has led to something: We have become a mockery abroad. This has resulted in the fact that there has even been a call not to spend the holiday in Austria. But we have already heard enough of this in the course of the short debate on the Vignette today. Minister! They say the countries are sparse. – I tell you that my conviction is the following: There are no construction representatives of a state government who would not immediately, if money were available, ensure that construction is started. Because what does a country's building agent want? He wants to improve his track record, because he probably wants to be longer in the state government, no matter what color he belongs to, and perhaps again be elected by his voters. And to do that, he needs a success balance! Now on the request concerning the inclusion of the Northfare Enns in the priority list: Mr. Minister! It's a lucky case. There is a prosperous, emerging economic area there. I have said before that we want to force these infrastructure expansions, as we know, above all, that this developing industrial area and this new port also pose a certain danger potential. After all, liquid gas, which is known to be duly dangerous, is disposed of there and then has to be transported through a residential area. There is, of course, a certain danger potential. - But that's just by the way. We wanted this northern crossing of Enns. We have really asked to put these on the list of priorities. It is not a disaster when something is put on a priority list. But that's the same thing that's been scrambled off. You could have just said: The proposal comes from the liberals, and because it comes from the liberals, it is not placed on the list of priorities. However, I believe that this is a rather poor reason, because I believe that the transport policy solution to the connection of this emerging economic area to the motorway is really an important measure. I think that any extension of this project would harm this emerging area. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.]] I have revealed all these speeches about infrastructure measures and an infrastructure offensive as Sunday speeches. As a regional representative of the Mürztal, I would like to speak briefly on the Semmering-Schnellstraße tunnel: You have us in the last answer to your question. January – that is, recently – once again made hope: ==References== February is an offer opening, and in April 1997 will begin to build. I hope that the construction of this necessary road really begins. I noticed the beginning of the construction in April 1997 thickly in my calendar, and then I will travel every day to Semmering and see if the construction machines are really going to start working there. I think that's really a light look. The construction industry is the driving force of the economy. And you, Minister of Economic Affairs, have the crank in your hand to start this engine! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e13240	The next speaker is Mr Kröll. 10 minutes of voluntary speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e13261	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! My colleague Karl Freund has already pointed out in detail from this speaker's desk the new Federal Roads Act and particularly stressed the area of procedural simplification and acceleration. The debate in the Committee on Building Affairs also properly dealt with this central issue, and today a number of speakers – Firlinger, Schöggl, Reichhold, Anschober, Kier – have also spoken here in connection with their contributions to the Committee's debates. I too would like to say a few things in my view. I have looked at my documents and I am concerned about protecting the Minister from certain very unilateral accusations. Mr Firlinger! You have just quoted what has been said in the Committee. I also wrote: The Minister has answered regarding the programme in Carinthia that there are 160 million Schilling projects already approved for Carinthia. I've written very closely! That was the answer, I'm just saying that. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.]] This concerns Carinthia, my colleague. The fact that there are still much more wishes in all the federal states than financial possibilities is a second thing. The planning and construction expertise are already at the disposal of Mr Landeshauptmann's deputy, but it is well known that you can only implement something, if everything is done in detail: approved, planned, implemented. I do not agree with the other, Mr Kier has already pointed this out. Mr Kier, for example, has also quoted the opinion of Mr Schwimmer. If I tell you what honourable Member Kier said, you will also remember: At the time, he meant that the whole thing seems to be at the heart of the Carinthian elections. – That’s true! If so much is already mentioned in the Committee today, I would also like to say that. With regard to the north-traveling In the end, it will also be remembered that there is still a great deal of coordination between the two states in detail and overall, until we are ready to release it. The entourage of Enns is of course also an important thing. [[Abg. Mag Firlinger: You have planned an industrial area and don't pay any attention to the streets! That is what the Minister admitted to the Committee.]] He also said that there is still a lot to do between the two states and in detail. Mr Anschober has just confirmed this. But I do not want to spend my time now responding to all these calls and statements. Ladies and gentlemen! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) We all know about the importance of the construction industry and, in particular, of road construction for the economy, as well as the protection and creation of jobs. Therefore, procedural simplifications and project accelerations are also of particular importance in regional policy. In this area, the Minister for Accelerating has a great deal of understanding. In this context, I would like to mention the positive example of the full extension of the Selzthal connection to the Pyhrn motorway A 9 within the meaning of the Federal Government Building Summit, the 1996 Federal Road Finance Act and also the recently planned measures of both ministers, Farnleitner and Hostash. ==References====External links== March with the Federal Minister Farnleitner, Mrs. Landeshauptmann Waltraud Klasnic, the State Councillor Ressel, and the Board of Directors of ÖSAG, Director-General Dr. Schragl, the official launch of this gap resolution to the amount of 600 million schilling. This is essential because it serves all the criteria I have mentioned. In this way the construction of the second Ennsbrücke will be started, starting in autumn the construction of the second tunnel tube. This closes the needle tube, and then the space of this building gap takes place. Then the node Selzthal is fully expanded. These 600 million schilling measures will start in a few days and will be completed in 2000. We can thus increase road safety, increase traffic flow and make a decisive contribution to employment and jobs, especially by the Ministry. As a Member of Parliament, I would like to thank you very much, Mr Minister, and all the bodies involved in the federal and state of Styria, for this acceleration programme. This is very important for our entire territory and also for the continuation of the transport routes. In addition, according to the Federal Road Finance Act, the following projects are considered as the first batch: Volksmarkt – Klagenfurt, Wels – Sattledt, Schön – St. Pankraz, completion of the Laimberg Tunnel, I went closer to Selzthal, because this is in my area, St. Martin – Neuthal, finally and finally the junction Landeck and the Semmering-Straße Tunnel at S6, on which my previous speaker has just gone closer. On the other hand, the construction measures in Landeck have already begun. According to the current intermediate status of the construction economic programme 1997 by Minister Farnleitner and Hostasch, further employment-saving measures by the Federal Government with over 30 billion schilling volumes and an impact on over 50 000 jobs are effective. My colleague, Mr Dankert, has addressed in detail what is foreseen in the economic resorts of the Federal High Construction and Road Construction, in the environmental protection sector, in urban water, in the environmental field, in the old-load rehabilitation and in the rail infrastructure of the transport sector. I therefore do not need to go into it more closely. Finally, I still allow myself to point out the still precarious situation that persists in the Endstal because of the failure to complete the international trail to this day. I am absolutely clear, Minister, that this is not your first task. It is now particularly important to address the interests of the Styria and the EU. However, I would like to ask you very cordially that you, wherever you have the opportunity to assert your influence in your own home or in discussions within the EU, so that this so important investment in the Selzthal Cross is also started as soon as possible. We all have a right to remove, as soon as possible, those who live there as well as the economy and our guests, that this 20-year-old bottleneck in the Enns will be removed as soon as possible by a targeted structural measure near the Enns in the form of a federal road. – I am very grateful for Selzthal, but also for the acceleration of programmes in all the federal states.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e13316	The next speaker is Mr Marizzi. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e13337	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! A great deal has already been said about this novel, so I do not want to give up on this issue now. I will, of course, also, like all my colleagues, highlight the issue from the point of view of my district and point out what is still missing or still open there. I am very glad that Mr Anschober has today been very committed to the creation of infrastructure at Ennshafen. Normally, one has the impression that when one says "car" and "road", it is similar to that of the devil and his grandmother. That is why I am glad today that Mr Anschober, too, now seems to love the streets a bit more. This is actually a great success! [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] I would like to say that I was very pleased with the statement made by the Federal Minister in the committee that we should finally let work. Federal Minister! However, I believe that the billions now in the so-called "piping" should not be subject to this tarpaulin effect. I have been talking to some of the members of the construction industry today, and I have the impression that these are waiting for the projects. This novelle is necessary and correct, but I believe that there should be something organized there too, Mr Federal Minister. I believe that it is necessary – and my colleague Mr Eder has already pointed out – to combine and structure more in the entire road complex. You should turn another round, think about it, and really do something in the near future. It makes no sense if you propose projects, if Parliament decides to do so, and then the whole thing remains somewhere in the stage. Because then we can be politicians – and you too, Federal Minister! – let go if all of this doesn't work out the way we want it to. Now I come to the "net" motion for a resolution by the FPÖ. It is plausible in some respects. Mr Firlinger is not here now, but Kier has already pointed out that it has been very exciting in the Committee. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Firlinger introduced a new economic miracle weapon from FPÖ two days after the special meeting. But he forgot something. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Now there is Firlinger, Peter!]] Yes! Mr Firlinger had some kind of state support in the Committee. Some have murmured: Ladies and gentlemen! Don't hurt us. Now, two days after the alliance of work, Firlinger is making a request again. – You have to imagine this: Two days after the alliance of work a new programme will be presented again! Firlinger wore a dark dove grey suit like Kreisky, a serious Kreisky student! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] That's right! We were all nervous. Some of us have said: Now we may have to step back because there is now a new alliance for work, two days after that of 18! Wait! [[Abg. Dr. Lösnak: And what happened?]] It was a new alliance for work – speaker: Förlinger, Author: Princehorn, responsible for the date: the clubman; and above that he. Now I'm reading to you something: Mr Haider said at the special meeting: "Mr. Vice chancellor! Let us remove the investment exemption and give entrepreneurs the opportunity to invest tax-free profit in the company through a tax reform, thus creating an investment boom of between 15 and 20 billion schilling in the country... That would be what it could be about!" – Haider im O-Ton on 18.2.1997. On 20.2.1997 the following request was made – Firlinger Speaker, author Prinzhorn –: "Increasing the investment allowance by 3 per cent in order to directly promote construction investments for the purpose of operation and thus also the Austrian construction industry." Ladies and gentlemen! ==References== That's where it got even more fun. Firlinger writes that one should invest in the construction of motorways, railways and tunnels. However, Haider said two days earlier: Tunnels are unnecessary, environmentally harmful, uneconomic. So that's not a miracle weapon. It behaves more like it says in the "profile": "Haider's wonderful bag. With his alliance for work, Jörg Haider wants to create 190 000 jobs. Experts just smile." [[Intercession with the liberals.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! Because you're so funny and funny, I'll read something to you. I now have the tomorrow "NEWS" in my hand: "surprising turn in the case of Grasser" I read there. I'm saving you a lot now. Maybe that's better for you. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] I'm just quoting something: Until this incident, the Grasser car house had used a total of 14 foreigners from Poland, Slovenia, Croatia, Yugoslavia, Bosnia as mechanical assistants, painters and car washers. ==References== 2. In 1994 the Grasser car house was sentenced to a fine of 5 000 s for employment of illegal foreigners. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations and countercalls at the SPÖ and the Freeman.]] Today, only 19 employees and only one foreigner from an EU country are employed. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party! Take this seriously! Stay a little serious! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e13422	Mr Dietachmayr is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e13444	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, I should also like to refer once again to Mr Firlinger's comments, which at the outset said that: You have already submitted an application eight months ago. That may be right. However, Mr Firlinger, you were not with this party eight months ago. So you cannot have filed the application. Second, you mentioned the "Nordumfahrung Ennstrasse". Such things come out when you don't know what you're talking about. This has nothing to do with the "Ennstrasse", but it is about a north crossing of the city of Enns. That's just for the correct. I would like to say very briefly that the Socialist Group rejects the FPÖ's proposal because we do not participate in this ball game between the federal government and the country. The fact is, as this request points out, that a priority is required by the Minister for Economic Affairs. However, everyone knows that the priorities are actually set in the respective federal states. With regard to the importance of this transfer of Enns, there is no doubt at all when one knows that more than 500 million schillings have been invested in tax money in Enns so far and that there is a very massive operating policy, which is particularly important in times like this. Ladies and gentlemen! Many companies, such as Kaindl with more than 300 jobs or Gaz-Prom, naturally make their location decision dependent on whether a corresponding road link is provided. In the medium term, a few thousand jobs could be created in this industrial area. At present, one of the largest liquefied gas camps in Austria is being built in the port of Enns, which is also significant. The access to this harbour site is a settlement street, at which paradoxically a large adventure playground for children is built by the city of Enns in a few weeks. The fact that the responsible road building representative in Upper Austria, Hiesl State Council, does not set priorities in the way that they should actually be set out to cook the people's soul must also be presented here. Unfortunately, the priorities set by the Upper Austrian Building Land Council are not covered by the economic needs in the central area of Linz. For example, in the Mühlviertler district – and I like it to the mill fourtlers – a falkenstein Landesstraße is built, which is daily driven by 700 vehicles. In comparison, in the Linz Central Room, the Traun, which was called for for decades, travels up to 30,000 vehicles a day. To this end, I must say that it is significant if the Federal Minister says literally at the Committee meeting – I have written the quote – that: "This is literature-reificing that there is a port facility and a business establishment without planning a corresponding road connection." On this point, we really have to give the Federal Minister the right! Mr. Anschober! I would like to tell you if you can easily relate this to the above Austrian country elections: This is not the case, because this passing of Enns has been called for vehement for more than 20 years, and it is really up to the respective building owner to set appropriate priorities. In my opinion, this has nothing to do with elections at all. They all know that just a few days ago, there was a very spicy incident in Enns. The population of Enns has participated in a rally in the city square, or, better to say, the SPÖ-Enns has organized a rally in the city square of Enns to support the construction of the northern crossing of Enns. As a result – probably because this was done through the media – the competent Council of State has suddenly cancelled the announced idea of Northfare Enns, has not come, but has sent the responsible officials to the event. Ladies and gentlemen! Due to the shortage of time, I do not want to read to you the numerous press releases that have come in recent weeks, but just quote a few headlines: "Autobahn node for Ennshafen overdue", "Ennshafen: Call for motorway connection", "Tawing around north-pass", "Angst um die Kinder", "Zorn auf den Landesrat", and so on. The number of such notifications has increased sharply in recent weeks. Finally, I would like to quote from a letter from an Ennser, which was published in the "Oberösterreichische Nachrichten" (Oberösterreichische Nachrichten) of 24. Among other things, February writes: "To the amazement of the citizens are exactly the politicians who have imposed the Ennshafen concrete moloch on the population, now those who want to prevent the Sparknut Eckmayr-Mühle" – that is, the jumping point – "and thus prevent the success of the Enns port by all means." We demand that it be decided quickly that a part of the north crossing will be built with the Eckmayr knot connection, so that heavy traffic can drive there and thus the population will be relieved.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e13483	Mr Riepl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e13505	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! I think it is justified to point out, in connection with the Federal Roads Act and the situation in the construction industry, that investments are of course always linked to employment effects. As we know, construction investments are highly domestically effective, as the import rate in construction is very low. In 1997, when I have read your ministry's information properly, there will be construction projects of the federal government to a total of around 38 billion schillings. I think it is important to point out that not only the projects are important, but above all it is necessary to ensure that they are completed and started. We must work together to ensure that no delays occur. – The above-mentioned volume of 38 billion schillings also includes projects of the countries and municipalities. In total, the related employment effects are also greater. It also seems important to me that each investment not only produces a first effect, but also that the resulting additional deliveries and benefits mean value added. With higher incomes, there is often also an increase in purchasing power in the area of employees. This too serves to boost the economy. The Economic Research Institute takes a multiplier of 1.6 for construction investment. That is to say, in the case of an investment of 100 million schilling, some 60 million schillings in economic recovery are added to the value added by this 100 million schillings. The infrastructure development of the federal government not only improves the quality of the site of Austria, but also ensures employment of more than 50,000 jobs. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr Prinzhorn, Member of the Liberals, expressed a fear in his request. He fears that a strong increase in the number of EU labour force, particularly from Spain, Portugal and Greece, could be used in Austria, and he is concerned that this could lead to social and wage dumping. I would just like to point out, before I address this concern, that it is remarkable that a Member of the House is making requests, but then is not present in the Chamber during the discussion of his own request, so obviously there is something better than to look at his request here and perhaps to hear the arguments of the others about his request. But this is just to be classified in the category of the moral image of the liberals. [[Abg. Dr. Stippel: This is typical!]] I believe that the liberals also show two faces on this question again. With the one face they say: We are concerned that the poor Portuguese could be dumped and exploited!, while at the same time or shortly before – with the second face – they demand that we reduce collective contract wages in Austria so that labour market movement and jobs can be created more easily. On the one hand, therefore, the concern for the "poor little Portuguese" and on the other hand the demand to reduce the wages immediately for all. This shows once again the position of the liberals in relation to the labour market. What is really the case? – The fact is that the many Spanish, Portuguese and Greeks who have been announced have not even come to our country, as Mr Principality has said. It is also true that collective contractual wages are certainly not reduced – at least not as long as there are social and democratic trade unions. However, if there were perhaps free trade unionists, I could no longer estimate what collective treaty policy would look like. [[Abg. Auer: God forbid us!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the House! In conclusion, I would like to thank all the construction workers, both domestics and foreign workers in the construction sector, who are often active in any weather and often in the face of the highest risk of accident, and who say this by day and by night, for their services.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e13556	The next speaker is Mr Müller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e13577	Mr President. Estimated Minister! High house! As a Member of Parliament as a Carinthian, of course I would like to refer to Mr Ing's request. Reichhold on the realization of the tendered federal road construction projects in Carinthia. In my opinion, this request goes as far as many F-opposition applications are concerned in the series of applications, which are intended to be carried out in one and a half weeks' elections shortly before the elections – it is generally known that there will be municipal elections in Carinthia. When looking closely at the motion for a resolution, Mr Reichhold, it is clear that he must have been written very quickly, since the road names are not even correct. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: In May 1996 we brought him in!]] [[Abg. May. Firlinger: This is because you always let the applications be sent out like this!]] The first is that the B 100 is the Plöckenpassstraße. – But with me this is still the Drautal road. As a Carinthian Member of Parliament, of course, I am very interested at all times in the fact that all the outstanding construction projects will be implemented quickly, of course, also with regard to the current labour market situation in the construction industry in my own country. Dear colleague Reichhold! It is clear to everyone that this motion for a resolution actually has the wrong recipients. As a former road builder of Carinthia, you know the usual customs according to which road construction projects initially follow the priority catalogue, then decided in the state government and finally presented to the federal government. In line with the budget and the outcome of the negotiations, the funds will subsequently be made available to the country. A total of 880 million Schillings are available for the year 1997. It is clear to me that, as a speaker, one must also acknowledge the priorities and move less urgent projects – that is the rather unpopular task in politics – to the future years. Mr Landeshauptmann Deputy Grasser, who is currently providing negative headlines in Austria, has applied for this priority. I therefore believe that it is also in its area of responsibility to ensure appropriate implementation. I support, of course, every effort that improves our road network in Carinthia, and above all I support the practice that those road construction projects, which bring greater social benefits, will be implemented earlier. This is taken into account in the construction programme decided by the State Government in accordance with the country's financial possibilities as well as the federal government. As a result of the good conduct, I hope that additional financial resources can be allocated for this purpose. 80 million schillings have already been foreseen today. I would ask you, Minister of Economic Affairs, to make additional resources available to Carinthia. This money can then be used for the construction industry, for infrastructure related to tourism, for transport safety facilities, environmental protection and the like. High house! The Liberals, however, apparently did not take this request as seriously as they did in the Committee on Building, because only two F-members voted in favour of the vote. The applicant Reichhold assured me that he was not on a campaign tour, but that he had been reported sick; we also take note of this. As this motion for a resolution has obviously been put forward only for electoral reasons, it is largely contained in the construction programme and is therefore partially inconsistencies, my group cannot give its assent to such alibi actions.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e13628	Mr Reichhold referred to an actual correction. Please, honourable Member. You know the rules. 2 minutes maximum speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e13652	Mr President. High house! I would really like to correct the statements made by my previous speaker, Mr Karl Gerfried Müller. He meant here that we liberals had confused the Plöckenpassstraße with the Drautalbundesstraße. That's not the case. This request concerns the B 110 Plöckenpassstraße and the extension of the Kleine Tal, a very avalanche-hazardous, slip-hazardous road. [[Abg. Müller: (who wanted to go to his place, comes back to the speaker's desk, holds a paper and points with his finger to a certain word) Can't you read?]] Mr Müller! B 110 stands here, that's obvious here. I'd like to correct this: This is the Plöckenpassstraße. The Drautalstraße cannot be included in this application, because it is not yet ready for registration, as you yourself know. Mr President. Second correction: My previous speaker, Mr Gerfried Müller, has previously meant that most of the projects mentioned in our request will be implemented anyway. That's not the case. Of the 21 projects notified, only eight are implemented. For the rest, the country of Carinthia has no money, although the country of Carinthia has been promised these funds by many federal politicians in various elections.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e13712	I call Mr Elmecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e13733	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! At the end of this debate, I have another motion for a resolution which seems to be necessary to us in connection with new transport developments in the Mühlviertel. It is known that the Czech Government announced last week that it no longer intends to extend the motorway from Prague via Budweis to Linz. Therefore, the transport discussion also gets a different quality. We believe that this motorway should not be built, but that it must be replaced, which can also relieve the large volume of traffic that we have seen in the Mühlviertel since the opening of the border, namely via the railway. I therefore tabled the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. Anschober: Are Mühlbachler and Schuster now on request or not?]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Your own group is asking if you are tired! Posch asks if you're tired! Before you start to sleep,...]] Mr Stadler, you do not have to worry about this. I have tabled the proposal that seems so important to us in the Mühlviertel in order to move forward the development of the railway in order to bring goods transit on the rail and not to have too much road load as before. Ladies and gentlemen! I would ask you to give your assent to this motion for a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e13812	The motion for a resolution which has just been read has been properly tabled, duly supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Anschober has been notified of an actual correction. Please, honourable Member. I would ask you to comply with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e13840	Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, I am correcting the following. Mrs Fekter actually brought me to that. The present proposal, which has just been tabled here, has already been tabled, namely as a request. I can't imagine that at the same time...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e13858	Deputies! This is not an actual correction.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e13873	I wanted to clarify this.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e13898	Mr Müller is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member. Second word.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e13919	High house! Mr Reichhold has corrected my statements here in an unsurpassed self-confidence. I make it clear that official application 200/A (E) of 22 January 1989 In May 1996, the request received by all the Members of Parliament under B 100 bears the name "Plöckenpassstraße".
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e13946	No one is reported in the word anymore. That concludes the debate. A final word from the rapporteur is missing. We are entering the voting procedure. I therefore ask the honourable Members to take their place. We first come to the vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 595 of the supplements. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled a motion for an amendment which refers to paragraphs 24 and 28 of the draft law. In view of the fact that there is only one request, I shall immediately vote on the draft law, the title and the receipt of the Committee's report, taking account of the amendment tabled by Mr Kurzbauer, Mr Eder and Mr Comrades. In the event of your consent, I would like to see a sign of this kind. – This is the majority of votes. The request was accepted. We shall therefore come to the third reading immediately. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to give their approval to the draft law at third reading, too, for a sign of approval. – This is done again by the majority. I note that the draft law is also adopted at third reading. We shall also vote on the request of the Building Committee to take note of its report in 596 of the supplements. In the event of approval, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done by the majority. The report has been adopted. We shall also vote on the request of the Building Committee to take note of its report 597 of the supplements. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. The request was accepted. Finally, we shall come to the vote on the request of the Committee on Construction, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 598 of the supplements. In case of consent, I ask for a sign. – This is once again the majority. The request was accepted. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Anschober and Mr Comrades on the extension and attraction of public transport between Linz and Prague. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to give their approval to this motion for a resolution to do so. – This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution by Mrs Elmecker, Mr Mühlbachler and Mr Comrades on the extension and attraction of public transport between Linz and Prague. In the event of your consent, I would ask you to give an appropriate sign. – This is done with a single vote. The request was accepted. (E 45.) 8. Point Report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government template (504 of the Supplements): Federal Act amending the Consular Fees Act 1992 (593 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e14081	We're now on the 8th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. A word message is not available. Ladies and gentlemen! We are immediately entering the voting procedure. I shall vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 593 of the Supplements. In case of your consent, I would like an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a single vote. We shall therefore come to the third reading immediately. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to give their approval to this draft at third reading too, to give an appropriate sign. – This has also been adopted unanimously. The draft law has therefore been adopted at third reading, and I expressly note it. 9. Point First reading of the motion for a resolution (Doc. 370/A) by Mr Mag. Doris Kammerlander and comrades concerning a Federal Constitutional Act amending the Federal Constitutional Act as amended by 1929
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e14142	We're coming to the 9th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Kammerlander. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e14169	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Prammer! I am delighted and very pleased that you are present at the first reading of such a law. This motion for a law has a Genesis that you all know, namely, that there has been a head of state in Styria for not too long, and on this occasion the debate has inflamed itself whether this is a head of state or a woman. Some knew it better and have meant that Mrs. Klasnic cannot call herself the head of state. You may smile or smile now, especially the male colleagues from the ÖVP, but this debate is not as ridiculous as you believe, because it exposes a lot of things. For example, she exposes the fact that by then there has never been a woman in such a function, and that is worrying enough! It also reveals that the language is, of course, a mirror of consciousness. That is exactly what I can say with you, if you find that so ridiculous, only once again. Because, in fact – and I am already at the heart of the whole – this request is a matter of course and is already regulated in the Constitution in Article 7. This provides that, of course, the official designations may be used in the form expressing the gender of the official or the official. In addition, paragraph 3 also states that official designations or titles can be used in the form which this also expresses. But the really sad thing about it was that then in the Styria the discussion was inflamed, that – I say quite consciously "man", because it was male commentators who said that – who acquitted and said: That's just natural... [[Call the ÖVP: The Dachstein!]] You can keep bluffing! But I say to you: At the time, there was rightly a letter to the judges of the Constitutional Court when, in that case, the two women who have graduated from higher education and who have received the designation "Magisters" gave this conscious decision to the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court of First Instance was right to object at that time. Afterwards, this High House – you were probably involved in many of you – amended the Higher Education Act and introduced the title "Magistra". [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Thank God!]] I can also remind you of this letter, which went on to say that, in the opposite way, all men should be addressed with female forms, in order to make you clear and aware of what that means. That's a mirror you'll obviously never get held up. Back to my request, to the mentioned change of law. There is nothing other than the fact that, once and for all, it is clear in the wording that the female correlate as the head of state is the head of state and the head of district is the head of district. Why? – In order on the one hand to remove all false claims from the ground, to give them the opportunity, and to introduce a uniform feminist form on the other hand, so that it does not come to such peculiar formulations as "head of the country" and the like. Finally, I should like to say that I know that all of this is not a very happy and probably not a truly satisfactory form, as is now the gender of the respective owner, the respective owner of such a function, and that it would probably be better to find a form which is generally more neutral. But that would be a very big reform, and I do not want to wait for it. It would include many forms. There is already today the merchant and the merchant, there is the councillor and the councillor, there is the councillor and the councillor, there is the obscene and the obscene. There are many such forms that are much more natural in the consciousness of people today than the title of the head of state or district. But I am optimistic enough to believe that at some point there will be so many women's officials that the names "head of state" and "head of district" will be a matter of course, just as today the names of councillor and councillor are already natural. Until it's ready, this mirror of consciousness will help you. Therefore, this proposal for a law. I call on all of you to vote in favour of this legislative proposal in committee and to decide on the amendment. For, as has been said, it is only more about correcting a name or two names, which has so far been simply overlooked. I do not think I have to read to you what this House has already decided on in terms of linguistic equality. It is a matter of course – I almost want to say: a lappaly – but it belongs to decided and implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e14250	The next speaker was Mrs Hlavac. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e14272	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! "The powerful have always made sure that only they remain in possession of the language. They have done so through language power and language power, i.e. through prohibitions and commandments." – This is said by Linguist Senta Trömel-Plötz, the founder of feminist linguistics. And the important Austrian poet Ingeborg Bachmann said: "No new world without new language." The language is our most important means of understanding. The language is conscious. The change of language affects our consciousness and directly changes the social world. Language equality is part of legal and social equality. The Federal Minister for Women's Affairs has commissioned a study: Creative forms, guidelines on gender-based language use. This study, as far as I know, will be presented in the next few days. I'm very excited about it. I believe that this is a subject that you do not underestimate and that you should not make fun of. That is why I am quite in favour of the debate on the wording in kind. Paragraph 7 3 of the Federal Constitutional Act. I think we should, but we must not be content with such things. We must not, therefore, be distracted by the very central issues that burn us among the nails: the increasing unemployment of women, discrimination at work, the lack of partnership in the family and the problem of harmonizing the work and family for women. What is referred to in this proposal can only be one aspect, but it must also be addressed. I think we need, apart from that, a whole package of women-promoting measures, and we should do so together.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e14315	Mrs Gatterer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e14336	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Women's roles and women's images have changed and are changing. Women today achieve functions that have been deprived of them for far too long. It was not even thought that women could ever achieve such functions. For this reason, there are functional names such as "Chairman" or "Chairman" because it was previously totally unthinkable that women come into these functions. The most important thing for us from the People's Party is not the title, but the fact that women can get into this function. And I think that in the heads of the ÖVP, rethinking has worked as a woman exercises the top function of a country for the first time. That's the most important thing! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Many functional names are still tailored to men. As Mr Kammerlander has already pointed out, I also believe that it is no longer useful to maintain functionalities taken over from the military language. I think we should think about new functional terms in which neither the term "man" nor "woman" is specified, think and really find and apply functional terms that can be carried by both women and men and which are easily adaptable. That is why I believe that we should choose the longer path and think about it, a way which is certainly the best and most sensible. .. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] I think Mr Kammerlander has already spoken about this. However, I would also like to remind the former President of the National Council Marga Hubinek, who has worked very exemplaryly here for the possibility of functional names such as "advisor". In this way it is much easier to take account of women. Since the 1988 Constitutional Change, it has been clarified that all functional designations can be used in a form expressing the gender of the official or the official. - I think that's very important. We must also, and I am glad that this is contained in your proposal, self-confidently say that in recent laws we are very embarrassingly trying to formulate these sex-neutral. Sometimes this almost leads to language confusion. For example, I would like to quote briefly from the University Study Act: "With the admission, the applicant becomes an ordinary or extraordinary student or an extraordinary or ordinary student or a member of that university or university." I believe that sometimes this type of gender-neutral formulation is already being used to a degree that we do not create clarity but rather language confusion by trying to make women and men appear in every sentence. In this context, we should consider how we could do better! [[Abg. Arbitrators: The most confusing is the word "general secretary", for there are men and women, general and secretary, included!]] Since you're just saying "Secretary," I still think of something. I have already brought in the basic thoughts of my group. I just want to say: I think the most important thing is that rethinking takes place in the minds. The fact that this is not yet the case was again evident today when Mr Jung said at the Neutrality debate: "Oh, only Mrs. State Secretary is here!" – That’s the problem! There must be a change in the minds. That this change is being carried out on paper is not enough!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e14389	The next speech is by Mr Magistrate. Stadler ahead. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e14410	Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Pollet-Kammerlander! I don't know how to address you! Her name also has a very male form. Should I say: Chamberlander, Chamberlander or – the Russian version – Kammerlanderova? [[Intervocations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Mrs. Colleague! This debate is certainly not ridiculous, but it is the most unnecessary and subordinate debate in this legislative period. Ladies and gentlemen! Because of Mrs. Klasnic's head of state to change the federal constitution... [[Abg. Nürnberger: This is an insult!]] I'll give you a few more suggestions! [[Further call of the Abg. Nürnberger.]] Clarify Please, Mr Koppler! [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Oh, that's it, Nürnberger! Look, you're so familiar in this house! Mr Nürnberger! Clarify me: In the future, should the German army, if ladies are allowed to join the German army, make an attack on the "young men and virgins"? How do you imagine that, ladies and gentlemen? How will this go in the future? [[Abg. Arbitrator: Ha, ha, ha!]] This is really an "unbelievably important" matter! There are 300,000 unemployed in this country. The fact that the heavy weight of the impoverishment of a million poor men in this country lies with women obviously does not shave the ladies and gentlemen of the left! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Important to you are only gender-neutral titles! It is important that, in the future, a head of state no longer means "head of state", but "head of state" or "head of state". Explain to me what Schachner-Blazizek is supposed to be called: "The Deputy Head of State"? How's that going? Explain this to me! That's absurd, that's ridiculous! This is the most unnecessary debate that is being held during this legislative period. We will reject the request and not lose any more syllables!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e14488	Mrs Gredler is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please. You have a remaining speaking time of 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e14510	Thank you very much, Mr President. I got on my way a note written by a man for a man: "Si tacuisses, philosopher menisses." Mr. Stadler! Had you been silent, you would have remained a philosopher. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum and SPÖ.]] I think you represent not only one who tramples on the feelings of women, but even a flock of elephants in this house! [[Abg. Haigermoser: That's what you say!]] That is what I am saying, because I believe that there is a serious need to deal with this issue. You can't take a subject that's important to some women as ridiculous! It is a question of following a request made by the Liberals on 20 July. In the first place in September 1995 and in January 1996, it was sent out in consultation after a unanimous decision and is therefore only now experiencing a strengthening here, so to speak. I admire the fact that the UStG has succeeded in maintaining the female and male names. It speaks of "Dekan" and "Dekanin". Tomorrow we will discuss a government template for a federal law that will adopt the education system for schools and professionals. In this case, of course, this is not the case, because one has not taken care of the fact that in schools there are also women who are also teachers. That's not important again. In this connection I quote Karl Kraus, who is certainly not a feminist, Mr. Stadler, who wrote in 1912: "Women's rightsists may despair, but it can't be changed: The language keeps it with the man, she is still not emancipated." – Since 1912, Mr Stadler, nothing has changed! [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] I know that Mr Stadler is very often overwhelmed, but I trust the men, and therefore I do not want to agree with him that he may also be able to learn once and will no longer make fun of the family names of Members of Parliament. Because that was really too much! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] You know, Mr. Stadler: Violence against women starts when women become objects that you can talk about like a thing! And so did you now! Discrimination begins where language, existence, history, work, performance and...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e14556	Please put to the conclusion, Madam President.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e14572	Discrimination begins where language, existence, history, work, performance and competence of women are kept silent. You, Mr Stadler, refuse the competence of women in functions!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e14601	Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e14617	That is why I would like to appeal to you to consider once again what horror you have committed now!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e14647	Mrs Dr. Petrovic. - Please. You've got two minutes left to speak.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e14668	Mrs. Federal Minister! Madam President, Mr Brauneder! Dear ladies!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e14690	Please note that the Bureau is also interested in the speeches of the speakers and, of course, also the speakers. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e14705	It seems to be acting in such a way that Mrs Stadler has difficulty distinguishing between titles and names. But that's still coming! If anyone has had doubts about the need for a genuine consideration of female titles and careers, it will probably not have them, as I think, as Mrs Stadler has said. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Mrs Antun Petrovic!]] Language is always treacherous. I've never heard anyone talk about a woman operator. In other words, where subordinated functions are not highly appreciated, female names such as "minister" have always been accepted. For the functions at the top, on the other hand, female names were always very, very rare. That is why I am convinced that the entire Federal Government would very much welcome this regulation with the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany and the President of the Federal Republic of Germany would like to oppose it.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e14744	No one is reported in the word anymore. That concludes the debate. I agree with Amendment 370/A to the Committee on Equal Opportunities. For the accusation of Mr Dkfm. Bauer to Mr. Federal Minister Farnleitner, he lied about the house, and for the use of the word "lye" I grant Mr Dkfm. Bauer's calling for order. The agenda is exhausted. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00063_d7e14783	I declare that in today's sitting, the self-employed have been brought forward 397/A to 403/A. In addition, requests for 2017/J to 2053/J have been received. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for Thursday, 27. February 1997, 9 a.m. The agenda can be found in the written communication distributed in the hall. The session will begin at a Question Time. The sitting is closed.
