ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e6585	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to welcome you to the first meeting after the summer break and ask you to take the places. The meeting was opened. Meeting of the regular meeting 1997/98
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e6613	The President of the Federal Republic of Germany, with the resolution of 8. ==References====External links== 28 para. 1 of the Federal Constitution the National Council for the 15th. ==References====External links== This is the first time we have been able to reach agreement on this subject. On the basis of this resolution by the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, today's meeting has been convened. The official protocols of the 81. Meeting of 9 and 10. ==References====External links== Meeting of 10 and 11. ==References====External links== Meeting of 11. In July 1997, it was not disputed and is therefore considered approved. For today's session as prevented, MEPs are reported Aumayr, Hans Helmut Moser, Dr Schmidt and Dr. Mock. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e6649	On the resolution of the President of the Federal Republic of Germany concerning the representation of members of the Federal Government, the Federal Chancellery made the following statement: Minister of Science Dr. Caspar Einmwerd by Mr. Federal Minister Mag. Karl Schlögl. Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e6679	We are now arriving at the current hour required on the subject: Measures to promote youth employment
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e6701	The first mention is made by Mr Vergestnich. His speaking time is 10 minutes. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e6722	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Measures to promote youth employment are currently decisive in all the daily newspapers, in the published reports of the media, but also in many discussions in our country. I like it that way. It must be our concern to give young people an opportunity for the future, regardless of whether they are apprentices or after schooling into their working life. We must not make any distinction. We must try, on the one hand, to give those young people who want to take a lesson in opening up this opportunity, and on the other hand to those young people who want to enter working life after completing secondary schools. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Some headlines on this issue raise the question: Are our apprentices getting drowsy? – to read in a newspaper dealing with housing problems – and on the other hand, it has never been as favourable as it is now to train apprentices because of the many funding measures available. Ladies and gentlemen! We should not forget, however, when dealing with this issue on young people. In international comparison, the development of the employment of young people in Austria is excellent, but it must be our concern that no youth who wants to work who wants to take a teaching remains on the road. In this regard, I believe we must clear up with many arguments that we are getting to hear in these days. For example, it says that a spongler’s teacher must not work on the roof. This rumor draws like a red thread through the media reports. But it is mainly carried on by the Chamber of Commerce, which, among other things, claims that it is impossible to train an apprentice wisely. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The ban on and in itself is limited to the employment of young people only when it comes to sources of danger. An apprentice can be employed on the flat roof without problems. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. stupid.]] An apprentice can easily – Mr Secretary-General, listen to me! – be employed without securing on the flat roof, as I have just said. [[Further calls to the ÖVP and to the Free Trade Unions]] However, an apprentice can also be employed, Mr Secretary-General, on the steep roof if he is adequately secured. – I mean, we should finally clean up rumors that lack any foundation! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] ==References== The law on the employment of children and young people is even more clearly defined in this context. The Workers' Protection Act applies to all workers, whether apprentices or adults, and requires the person responsible to ensure that appropriate measures are taken in accordance with the risks. Ladies and gentlemen! It is true that the Chamber of Commerce, as well as other bodies, are working together to employ additional apprentices. But the trick is in detail. An example: When two large industrial enterprises in Lower Austria wanted to take in more apprentices and informed the labour market administration about this, it was heard from the Niederösterreich Chamber of Commerce that there was no need. Ladies and gentlemen! How seriously do we actually take the question of youth employment? Do we want more apprentices? Do we want more youth employment? If so, I think we should stop such actions and turn our interest in a different direction, namely to give more attention to youth employment. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! These days, however, it is also discussed again and again, which is why there are no new teaching professions. We urgently need new professions! Who actually prevents us from introducing new teaching professions? There is a desire stronger than the will to do so. I have been informed of what it actually looks like in connection with new teaching professions, which are currently under discussion. At present, the professions of bankers, sun protection technicians and manufacturing technicians are in discussion. More wishes for new teaching professions are not available from the economic side. Ladies and gentlemen! I understand a number of arguments, such as the question: How is our country taking into account the fact that Congress tourism is increasing more and more? Do we have enough skilled professionals in this area? – I think we should think about whether this area could also be the essence of a teaching profession. Ladies and gentlemen! However, we should also discuss whether, for example, the new technological developments in the printing sector should not also lead to new teaching professions. These are topics of the future. But what does it look like in reality? We – employers and employees – sit together in the vocational training advisory board. We have been discussing three teaching professions there in recent times. One of them is the concrete prep. In this respect, an application has been submitted by the Advisory Board in November 1995 to the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Do you know when the new apprenticeship will be awarded? The premiere is today! Today, this new teaching profession is being adopted. From November 1995 to September 1997, that is, for almost two years, the administration needs to implement what has been agreed together into reality. We should also get faster, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The same applies to the profession Hohlgasveredler. The application was submitted in March 1996. This profession, too, will only be decreed today. You also needed a long time to do this. More quickly, the profession of communications technicians has gone on. The work on this was completed in March 1997, and the regulation will also be adopted today. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that it is also important for those concerned to have the opportunity to participate accordingly. Our concern must be for the employed youth. That is why I ask the representatives of the economy to do so. For if the young industry is combined with the trade union youth and together develops an eight-point programme on how to better master youth employment, it is not particularly beneficial if the Economic and Social Committee's answer is: We don't take part in this, we don't sit at a table! However, this attitude is also recognizable in other areas. Maybe that's the new line. However, I do not believe that the meaning and purpose of our efforts can be. Ladies and gentlemen! We must not waste time on youth employment. Young people who come out of school need the opportunity to enter a teaching profession. There are many who are invited to participate, such as the parents, but also the young people themselves. As far as the parents are concerned, I believe that it is not a goal, if, as one hears from the teaching firms repeatedly, the parents are present in the signature of the teaching contract, but then they do not care at all about the development of the apprentice for the next three years. As far as young people themselves are concerned, in a range of over 200 teaching occupations most young people in very few occupations, such as in those of the car mechanic, the hairdresser or the retail merchant. Very salopp expressed: Anyone who believes that he may start sometime at the Austrian ring when he becomes an automechanic will soon find himself at the oil bath he has to clean. And anyone who believes that he can shape the most beautiful hairstyles will find that the change of career in this area is enormously common. We need the inflow to more teaching professions. The offer is on the table and should be used accordingly. But we also need more information and more initiative. I believe that it is the wrong approach to go ahead and accuse the government, and it is only now that it wakes up. It is evident that all of us in this House have been working on youth employment for a very long time. For example, we could have dealt with the problem of the protection of youth work in relation to the bakers before the summer, if there had been no resistance from the ÖVP. Ladies and gentlemen! Let us take the problem of youth employment seriously before there is crime and youth outcries. Let's give the youth a chance! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e6848	On the topic of the current hour, Mrs. Hostasch will now comment. Their speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e6870	Dear ladies and gentlemen! Allow me, on the very important point, to do everything possible to give young people a chance, and to ensure that we never have unemployed young people in Austria again, to announce a number of figures for the first time, because I believe that it is clear from these that many of the measures put forward by this House, but also by the Federal Government, are already having positive effects. At the end of August in Austria, despite difficult framework conditions – which cannot be denied – we had a lower unemployment rate among young people than at the same time last year, by 3.1 percent less. Unemployment fell between 15 and 18 years old and 19 to 24 years old, meaning that we could not only cover young people between 15 and 18 years of age, but also those between 20 and 30 years of age. In particular, labour market services do a lot to support this trend. It was almost twice as fast and very successful among young people in the annual average. For example, the residence of young people in unemployment at 84 days is significantly lower than the overall average of other unemployed. The employment situation among young people in Austria is also quite favourable in international comparison. Within the EU, Austria has by far the lowest level of youth unemployment, which underlines that we have recognised and acted in good time on the problem of youth unemployment. I thank you from this point of view for your support in this regard. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] We can see, ladies and gentlemen, that we have a special dynamic in the youth labour market and the teaching sector. This is due in particular to demographic development. The share of the population of the 15-year-olds increased by 7.3 percent from 1994 to 1996. The Federal Government and the High House have recognized this development in good time and have already made an intensive effort since February of this year to take account of it and to take appropriate measures. For example, ladies and gentlemen, in July and August of this year, we were able to obtain 12 396 job seekers from the labour market service. This figure is 33 percent higher than the previous year's figure. In this success you can see how intense our efforts are. The labour market service has also succeeded in achieving a shift of priority in support of young people within a very short time. In 1997, a total of 1.4 billion schilling will be spent on measures for young people. I believe that this also proves how seriously we are taking the development of young people and how much we are trying to do this. In addition to promoting apprenticeship in companies and teaching workshops, for example, six over-company training facilities have been created. Some 1,400 young people, about 1,200 more than in the previous year, will begin their teaching this year in over-company training facilities. As you will know from your own experience, training in these areas has high quality and therefore also offers great career opportunities for the future. I should like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, of those measures – measures which we have agreed with you in this House – which have led to the relief of first undertakings in the health insurance contribution during the first three years of teaching, that we have adapted the Youth Employment Act more to practice, and that third, shared experience has been implemented, such as in the field of vocational training in new occupations. Dear Ladies! Not only this programme, but in particular the special programme presented to the public by the Federal Government in July, will help us to give young people the opportunities they need. We are obliged to create the conditions for this. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. stupid.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! The primary objective of this special programme is to motivate, in contact with the private sector, even more apprentices than in the past, regardless of the fact that, as we know, massive structural changes are taking place in particular in the industrial sector. Nevertheless, I am very glad to have received feedback from many industrial companies that more apprentices are now being recruited. In addition, however, we have also included the cities, the municipalities and the federal states in our programme. My colleague, Mr Farnleitner, and I have sent letters to all the mayors in our country asking to support this initiative of the Federal Government. We received very positive feedback. For example, in Lower Austria alone, I can tell you that 200 additional teaching places are offered to young people. We have also received the notification from Vienna that 100 additional apprenticeships will be provided. But even smaller communities, smaller countries have told us that one, two or three apprentices will be recruited more. So in the sum – I am convinced – we will achieve the goal we are working together with our cities and communities. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! In order to achieve this objective, of course, it is also very important that there be close cooperation between the labour market service institutions and the school authorities. I can tell you that institutionalized cooperation between the labour market service and the school authorities has taken place in all the federal states, helping to successfully implement this concept. In addition, within the framework of the labour market service, we have set up additional advisory teams to the already existing departments to strengthen direct contact with businesses and to motivate companies of the professions to also recruit apprentices and to devote themselves to the training of young people. We know, however, ladies and gentlemen, that young people often choose very late, whether they are seeking an apprenticeship or whether they want to continue their training in a secondary school. Accordingly, on the part of the classroom, it was provided that for young people who have either decided at a very late stage or who have not found access to the apprenticeships market, additional 5 600 schools were offered. This means that the overall offer, supported by the Federal Government with the support of the economy, with the support of the countries and communities, but also of its own activities, is now available to a number of training places in autumn, which will meet the goal of giving young people a chance. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I should like to say something very honestly: We cannot guarantee those young people who will have access to further training in this or that way this autumn, that in three or four years, when this training is completed, direct integration can take place in the world of work. We can't foresee that. Nevertheless, I think it is very important to ensure that youth is further trained and that it has a perspective. Show all experiences: The better training, the better the future opportunities for labour market parole and thus for the competitiveness of our economy are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e6976	We are now going into the debate on the current hour. The speaking times in this debate are 5 minutes each. Mr Kiermaier is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e7000	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen at the Ministerial Bank! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Well-trained and performance-ready employees represent the true location advantage of Austria. Training should therefore be given the greatest attention. This is not only about the actual business side, but also about a real contribution to the whole economy. It is therefore not only the businesses that are calling for effort here, but also the cities, the municipalities, the local authorities, yes, I would like to say the entire public hand. Not only is the number of apprenticeships created crucial, but it is particularly important for example. I would like to say an honest word here as an entrepreneur who has constantly trained three apprentices and has learned two occupations: Of course, an apprentice costs considerable money at the beginning of his training time. It is unfair, however, if one does not admit that as the duration of the teaching period increases, the performance of the apprentices increases unabated and then the matter looks much better. Another thing: One has no fluctuations in the working environment for three or four years in a farm, depending on the duration of the course, and one has employees to whom one can rely. The issue is really important, and I believe that the apprenticeship package has all shown its good will. Today, there must be no more absurd provisions – Mr President Vergestnich has already done so – and it was really time for new regulations to be created. The working time regulations are also much more moderate today. As a host host, I know what I'm talking about. So you can see: If all forces work together and play together, then you can face this difficult matter accordingly. Ladies and gentlemen! But the schools are also required. If we want to train the apprentice to become a traditionally good Austrian skilled worker, he must already get the necessary armor in the compulsory school. Unfortunately, this is often not the case as often as one hears from the vocational school teachers. If the apprentice only has to learn basic accounting and orthography in the vocational school, it is simply too late! Then something has been missed in compulsory school. But there is also a need for reform in the vocational school. I could imagine, for example, that in the vocational schools closed in the summer, the training of both the skilled and the farmers, who have to be constantly re-trained – that is nothing new – is being carried out. Even in view of the excess of teachers, it would not be bad if one could use these houses in summer and thus open the door and gate to the training that is so important. The value of the apprentice is inseparable from that of the skilled worker. It would therefore be, I believe, not wrong to write some parents in the main book, that it would be more reasonable, fairer and more beautiful to press their children not by all force through the gymnasium, but also to think of having them learn a decent, beautiful profession. Because one thing is clear: The children will later be happier and better placed in this profession than when they become bad academics. Ladies and gentlemen! I feel, if I may say so, probably as a skilled worker, both as a retailer and as a waiter, and I have no complexes because I have not graduated. Just as I do thousands for this country the same service, and this activity is worth at least as much as one for which someone has completed high-quality studies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e7058	The next speaker is Mrs Fekter. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e7079	Mrs Prammer! Mrs. Hostasch! Minister Farnleitner! Mr President. High house! Today I have considered whether to speak here as a speaker of the coalition partner or not as an entrepreneur. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Decide! Your personality is divided, that's the problem!]] Mr Haigermoser! I have decided to talk about apprenticeship training as an entrepreneur, therefore, Mr Haigermoser, because I have always trained apprentices in my company and can continue to train and therefore certainly make a practical contribution to this debate. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] [[==References====External links== Haigermoser]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Have you prepared this speech yourself, or has the Lord dictated this speech?]] Our dual training system has always been described as one of the best in the world because it ensures youth employment, because it is practical and because it creates professionals for the market. Whether this is still true today, I would like to relativize in so far as I have to say: If we do not adapt the system to today's needs through appropriate reforms, we will soon no longer have the world's best system to date. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Many people now know that, of course, the government is aware of this, and it has already been decided in the early summer here in the House that more places can be created. I too can now offer additional apprenticeships in my company, for example, in the motor vehicle mechanics and in the car electromechanics sector, although I do not have a car master's operation, but only a sufficiently large fleet with a corresponding workshop offering the entire professional image. So we have significantly expanded the possibilities for companies to provide apprenticeships, and that was good. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! That is why I am speaking more today than an entrepreneur, because the politicians are not training apprentices. The apprentices are trained in the economy, in the enterprises, and the policy has to create the appropriate framework conditions! 120,000 apprentices are currently being trained in Austria. Mrs Hostasch has explained the figures. As Upper Austria, I am proud that most of the apprenticeships in the country of Upper Austria can be found: Each fifth course is located in an Upper Austrian establishment! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Anschober: There are most students there!]] The largest provider of apprenticeships is the middle class. Most apprenticeships offer SMEs, small and medium-sized enterprises, trades and crafts. That's why I thank you from here... [[Abg. Koppler: That is why most young people in Upper Austria are waiting for an apprenticeship!]] Mr Koppler! One thing is, of course, right: If 20 percent of the total apprentice cake, both the need and the offer, are in Upper Austria, of course the problem in Upper Austria is also the greatest. This is why the country has decided an intensive apprenticeship programme with head of state Pühringer. [[Lively ironic hustle and bustle of Abg. Headmaster.]] We have solved the problem perfectly! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Two thousand additional apprenticeships have been created. [[Abg. Koppler: That's where you have to laugh!]] I would particularly like to thank all these companies that have created additional apprenticeships. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I do not mean, however, certain workshops, such as those of the ÖBB, which were first locked up so that after that, when they are locked up again, funds can be used for additional jobs. I don't mean that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Kiermaier said that there must be no more absurd provisions. But they still exist. For example, the working time system, which requires a person working on Saturday to be free on Monday, is absurd.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e7234	Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e7249	This should be changed as well as the 23 o'clock rule for the hospitality industry. In addition, the partial teaching must be created. [[Abg. Haigermoser: That's embarrassing!]] [[Prolonged calls.]] And above all, the costs of schooling should be borne by the AMS.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e7294	The next speaker is Mr Haider. He's got the floor. Same time of speech.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e7315	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! It is really interesting to admire ÖVP-Redner with her political division of consciousness here at the speaker's desk. Mrs Fekter criticised the deterioration in the working time system that apprentices working on Saturday are now freed on Monday. – They criticise this, but have decided for themselves, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! You need to know: You decided! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: You too!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You also decided!]] I have not criticized it, but you criticise it, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP. Mrs Hostasch referred to the debate and said that youth unemployment was not at all a problem. – I can tell you the following, Mrs Federal Minister: In the same month of last year, we still had 6,400 open apprenticeships, this year there are only 3 500; last year, 6,000 young people were looking for a apprenticeship, and at the moment there are over 10,000 who have not been able to teach on apprenticeships. That's the reality! That's why I can only say: In the evening, the sloth becomes diligent. I give colleagues It is quite right to say that young people have to do something when they leave school. Only: The end of school was in July, ladies and gentlemen – and only now do you begin to work. Last Monday, the Minister for Social Affairs, for the first time, invited representatives of the labour market administration to a crisis meeting. [[The speaker shall keep a document up to date.]] Here is the invitation, ladies and gentlemen! That's where she spread her credo. I quote from the Minutes of this sitting: Young people must now be offered training, even if they can no longer find a job in this profession after that. – Ladies and gentlemen! What kind of policy is that? Now you hide the unemployed young people, and when the elections are over, they can all be unemployed again. You really don't even care about how young people do! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ms Hostasch acknowledged that a hotline was set up, although of 108 requests under the protocol of the AMS heads 81 young people are already in charge of the labour market administration. That means it's always in the circle. You're working on yourself, Mrs. Sozialminister! You're getting up too late, you're taking wrong action and you're unsocial by saying: Let us hide the young – whether they have a teaching that will give them vocational training later on. Our aim must be to enable young people to have vocational training. To the dirt with the hotline you say: We owe this action to the chancellor and vice-channer, and this action for the two must bear fruit, I must say: This is not an advertising campaign for the government! They are supposed to create jobs for young people, that is the task to be done here! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Where was this meeting?]] Where was this meeting of the Minister for Social Affairs, the "Fire Defense meeting"? – Of course, in the BAWAG building in the Seitzergasse, in the Hochholzerhof in Vienna, ladies and gentlemen – take care of how this is done. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That fits!]] Mrs. Federal Minister! Something else is significant for how "serious" you take youth work; You know your own concept. Although we have known since 1993 that there is a growing problem of teaching places, this concept is at 30. It was published in July 1997 and only now, last Monday, for the first time made available to the members, to the heads of the labour market service. [[Abg. May. Stadler: So fast?]] Now look at this. [[The speaker keeps a brochure up to date.]] This concept is boldly moving forward to page 19. So on this page we still have a concept. Then comes another page of this concept. [[The speaker turns around and shows two blank white pages.]] Then comes another page of this concept. [[The speaker flips over again and shows an empty page again.]] [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] This is the youth employment policy of the Federal Minister! Then comes another page, only red is kept. [[The speaker shows an empty red page]] This red is dangerous, ladies and gentlemen! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the liberals.]] That is why I say to you: Their strategy is very easily transparent, even in Upper Austria. Today there is an article in a newspaper in which an oberösterreichischer ÖVP politician admits that the apprentices cannot be accommodated and therefore creates jobs for learners. – Do you know why you are propagating teaching staff? - Because that's for you the cheaper workers. These can also be paid under the collective contract. That is why the Upper Austrian ÖVP creates jobs for learners. Read this, ladies and gentlemen! You do that so that you can get away from the teaching! You want learners who don't even have to pay an apprentice compensation! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There is Mr Maderthaner, who recently requested a reduction in the compensation for apprentices. That is the reality, ladies and gentlemen, how you make your policy!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e7472	Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e7488	My final sentence, Mr Maderthaner: Consider your own concept! If you are committed to reducing the compensation for apprentices, you will be able to introduce a 30 per cent drop-off rate for training firms – then you will have sufficient apprenticeships!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e7518	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Peter.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e7539	Mr President. Ladies Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is positive that all the forces of this House have recognized unemployment as the first problem. It is also positive that they have recognized youth unemployment as the most pressing, dangerous problem, which contains most social explosives. And it is typically Austrian that we are once again on the level of improvisation world champions. Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! Sometimes I have the impression that the apprenticeship problem came to your mind yesterday. Don't you know the demography? Do you not know the changes in the technologies that have been taking place for years? Do you not know the changes of the operational organizations? – Since 1992, the number of apprenticeships offered has started to decline. You've been in government since 1992. Why are you starting to act hectic now? Why have you not started thinking about this really dramatic problem, the loss of the attractiveness of dual training, the introduction and discussion of reform proposals here in the House five years ago? I expressly welcome the fact that you are doing something at least now. I even thank you for that. You are now spending many, many millions and billions of schilling to compensate for your reform inability five years ago. This helps the young people who are getting an apprenticeship here and today who are getting a training place here and today that you are keeping in a school here and today, because this is always better than when the 16-year-old is out of work on the street. But confess to your responsibility that you have slept for five years. They did not anticipate the development in the apprenticeship market. You didn't do anything. You have made dual training more difficult, you have gradually dedressed this dual training, which I am still convinced today that it is actually one of the very great secrets of success in this country. The developments in demography, technology and company organization should have shown this to you. Now talk and promote teaching. That's very, very expensive. It helps in the short term, but does not solve any problem in the medium term. That's why I'm saying: Confess yourself to a real conversation here in the House! I ask you for the second or third time from this pult that we see the teaching as a real part of the secondary level of education, that we see that, in addition to the general education of higher education and higher education, the teaching must be a third, fully integrated pillar, that we must decouple the teaching period and the vocational training period, that we must become a vocational training centre from the vocational school. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Copper]] The training of young people, regardless of where part of the secondary level of education they are, is always an education for life and for the profession. Therefore, the teaching is to be fully integrated. Ladies and gentlemen! I ask the education politicians to take note of this and discuss it. I'm saying this as a businessman. In the future, we will have compulsory training until 18. I must have a year of life. We live in an information society, in the society of the European Union. The enlargement of the European Union will make our society increasingly complex. The apprenticeship training, the vocational school is not only a training for the professional part, it is also a training for young people who must find their place as a citizen of this country in this increasingly complex, increasingly difficult society. Today we have a drop-out quota of 50 percent in the BHS, in the higher schools. Thankfully, Kiermaier has shaped a beautiful sentence by saying: Why press young people into high school instead of being taught? - Yes, Kiermaier is right. What we must do, however, is to open up the teaching, to make it clear that for 14 years without a polytechnic course, the entrance can clearly be either higher or higher education. There are openings up today, I already know, but there are far too few, and they are too difficult. We need to reorganise dual training. There are corresponding requests from the Liberals – please treat them! And if, because of party political boards, you do not want to deal with requests from the Liberals before the brain, we will withdraw ours and you will be allowed to bring it yourself. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e7591	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e7612	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen at the Ministerinnenbank! High house! It is, of course, nice to be told by the Federal Minister here that since February 1997, demographic development in this country has been countered in the field of youth unemployment. The problem here is only: February 1997 – some previous speakers have already stressed this – is a lot late for this! Ladies and gentlemen! For years, you have been aware of the situation on the apprenticeship market. This House has been debating developments in the teaching sector for years now. You haven't taken any measures for years. And just this year, you're trying to take action here in the short term. I expressly stress "short-term" and come to another limitation: Here – and this is both valuable and important – we are discussing the apprentices, but the subject of the debate is actually youth unemployment. Ladies and gentlemen! It's not just about the apprentices. It is also about the fact that officially more than 30 000 young people or young people are reported unemployed. You all know here in this house: This is not the right number, of course, many more young people are unemployed, much more are looking for a job and do not find themselves in the statistics of the employment office because they still have some employment somewhere, perhaps one or two years longer by the families. This is the real situation which cannot be seen from these statistics at all. Back to the apprenticeship situation. I recognize that the Federal Government is taking action this year. Yes, but, Mrs. Minister, at whose cost? – There is today the news in the "Kurier", according to which the head of the AMS – and this is not new, we have repeatedly pointed out in the past – that the funds for active labour market policy are too scarce. If the share of apprenticeship funding should continue to be maintained, then nothing will remain for the other areas. – This is the reality that we should actually deal with. They have decided to put more than a billion schillings this year in the field of apprenticeship promotion. Good, worthy of recognition! But you do not say, Mr Verzehnitsch does not say that at the same time, for the years 1998 and 1999 15 billion, drawn from the labour market management budget, are lost for active labour market policies. 15 billion! These figures are correct. I can tell you that too, Mrs. Minister: 15 billion are therefore taken and missing not only for young people but also for the other areas of problem in the labour market. That's the situation! If we take away one and a half billion of these 5 billion available for active labour market policies for young people, then the others have fewer. In a debate next year, we will therefore have to deal with the fact that the situation has worsened for older workers, as is already apparent in the labour market. Then the Federal Government will make itself and say: We are now making a programme for older workers. We will have the problem of introducing new measures for young people next year. Ladies and gentlemen! Only: This is not the case, because you've reworked the funds. From the budgets for active labour market policy, you can see what you need for pension financing. This means that we will have to debate it, but we do not have money. – This is the completely wrong approach you have been working on for a long time. They always give a year in there a bit, the other year a bit in there. I would like to draw your attention to this, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, there are countries that are developing a different policy, for example France. In the next few years, 700 000 jobs for young people will be created in France – a courageous programme, as I believe – of which 350 000 will be jobs in the public service for social services alone, for environmental services. The French Government is at least trying to develop a concept and offer jobs. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Who then pays the public service?]] Mrs Fekter! Yesterday, the French National Assembly debated, and the Conservatives said they would not vote against it, as it makes sense to take measures, even if in a few years it might prove that it has not been possible. But there are measures being taken. 700 000 jobs – this is something different, Mrs Fekter, than to get here and come with figures on Upper Austria, where Mr. Landesführer quickly spent a billion dollars in the election year...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e7641	Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e7656	...for financing loosening. It will not be enough to reserve only a few million for praises in the election year, but it will generally...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e7674	Despite the "year of election" for the final rate!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e7690	It will generally not be enough, ladies and gentlemen, if we only debate, you must take action by the Federal Government!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e7720	The Federal Minister has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e7741	Mr President. Estimated colleagues on the government bank! High house! If we are following developments in Austria for decades, we must note: Since 1985, the number of teachers has fallen. We had a trend in the economy, which proved to be fatal not only for youth employment in the longer term, but also for the – in the positive sense – supply of the Austrian labour market with a sufficient number of skilled workers. If one follows the measures taken this July in the field of vocational training law, the Child and Youth Employment Act and also the social security framework, one can indisputably find that it has succeeded in reversing this trend in Austria. I remember a survey. More than 4,000 teaching places have been promised. More than 2 000 new apprenticeships have so far been reported to the Chamber of Commerce by the various relevant institutions. First point. Second point: It must be said in all fairness that it is more difficult to implement measures in a country with a few percentage points of youth unemployment, for example in France, where there are more than 20 per cent youth unemployment, or in Spain, with 40 per cent youth unemployment. Therefore, fine adjustment is a more difficult task for us. Let me mention two things. What's going on? In the meantime, we have put in place new training regulations – some of which have been pointed out by President Vergestnich. To do this, we must also say: We must shorten the time limits for all reviews. It often takes too long for us to lead new careers in the way. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] At the moment there are further new careers in discussion, but I would like to point out to all who are taking part in this discussion: The problem is that although many are mentioned in press releases, there are no proposals and it cannot be the task of the bureaucracy to invent professions. There are new technical fields where there will be a number of new professions. I am thinking of media assistants, I am thinking of system technicians in the field of information and communication technology and alternative energy technicians or system consultants. There's enough of them, we need to speed up the redundancy. Another point to be reported from my house: In the meantime, in our procurement activity, we have ensured that those companies that train will at least receive a priority in awarding under the same conditions. The same is done in all the conditions of support of the actions which my House has to pursue. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Let me make one more point. It is beyond dispute that the Austrian training of young skilled workers is unique worldwide. We're at 34. Professional competition in St. Gallen again wins more gold medals than we can hope for at any international sporting events. [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] It would therefore also be time to thank all young people who work wisely in the teaching profession, as well as those trainees who, in endless hours, strive to teach youth skills. [[Renewed condolences with the ÖVP.]] A comment on fine-tuning. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, it is about rehabilitating this "operating accident" with bakers and co. as soon as possible. It is also striking to see how the debate is going to take place that on the labour market several hundred young people each year who have problems with the minimum level of qualification. That is why we should not close ourselves to the problem which we unfortunately could not solve at the last moment of the reform, namely that we need something in this regard – whether it is a teaching system according to Swiss patterns or whether it is a part of the teaching as it has presented itself to my house. In any case, we need to take more care of the less qualified. The good ones will perish and prove themselves. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Since it is not about the training of these young people, but about their qualifications, I have imagined that it would be appropriate to make a simplification in the polytechnic course. Many apprentices today come out of the polytechnic course and have to submit to access qualification tests, which in part end up very disappointing. How would it be if we were to put this test into the polytechnic school year if we were to make a uniform standard test there? If this does not exist, it is still half a year to deal with deficits in school. This would probably result in a dramatic decline in these complaints. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I come to the conclusion. High house! We need enough young skilled workers for the next few years to start the export economy, to increase the growth we are now seeing. It is in our interest that, through concentrated measures in all areas and as a Community task, we continue to pursue this problem as energetically as we believe it is now.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e7844	The next speaker is Mrs Tegischer. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e7865	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies ministers! High house! In my view, as a youth speaker, I would like to make a contribution to this issue. A preliminary amendment, Mrs Fekter: The ÖBB have not closed any teaching workshops. On the contrary, they teach young people beyond what they need. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I believe that we all agree that we must ensure that no young person has to start his career with the feeling of being superfluous. In my opinion, the right to well-founded education and training is a human right. For this reason, as has been mentioned more often, the Federal Government has tightened up a package of measures which takes into account young people in particular. The Special Programme "Youth an opportunity" is an aid to job seekers and sets out targeted initiatives for training places. On this occasion, I would like to hand over a complete copy to Mr Haider. I don't know where they disappeared in his few pages. .I'm now handing over the complete copy to you. [[The speaker handed over Abg. Dr. Haider's a paper.]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It's not handwritten, you can look at it. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: (an empty page of the paper kept in height) Is already empty again!]] The last page. You may be able to fill these out with proposals from you, we would be grateful to you for doing so. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In particular, I would like to highlight these ten measures which link the award of public contracts with the training of young people. My speaking time is limited, so I would just like to take one point out of these ten measures. These are the advisory teams for the acquisition of job seekers, but also the measures taken by the AMS for acquisition. 350 teaching places have been created in Tyrol alone. But I also consider the hotline of the Federal Government to be an absolutely valuable institution. 838 callers were already registered under number 0660-19 96, including 634 young people. I am absolutely sure that this will once again document the cooperation of the ministries concerned, the social partners' organizations and the labour market service. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would now like to show you from my experience as a social worker, as a youth leader, as a street worker how the spiral works, if people already see no prospects when their future should begin. I have experienced daily what it causes when young people do not have a job. They feel pushed to the edge of society – with all the consequences that belong to it. They feel helpless. There is a loss of confidence in adults. And the fatal behaviors that result are addiction, violence, intolerance to other marginal groups, and also the escape of disdainful groups. The consequences of these behaviours generate much higher costs at national level than targeted integration into the labour market. I am aware of the cost of training. The loss of recession and rationalization of training places in the training sector is forcing payment as a remuneration for training in the vocational schooling period or a burden compensation between trainees and non-trainers. Denmark has had such a model since 1977. Finally, I would like to say how important it is to me that entrepreneurs keep young people for at least six months after completion of teaching. In this way they get practice, they do not fall equally into unemployment. This should be made possible in cooperation with the AMS of which they are cared, in order to find a training place or a job. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] I have experienced a variety of personal fates with all consequences, with psychological and social healing. I can therefore only call on all of you, together with us, to ensure that young people are provided with training and jobs so that they can gain hope and confidence in society and see a positive future. [[President Dr. Fischer once again gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e7951	The next speaker is Mr Murauer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e7972	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mrs Tegischer! To the Bundesbahnen only one sentence: In Attnang-Puchheim, the Federal Railways started apprenticeship training in June and re-activated for the promotions in autumn – so that we are precise and everything remains in the lot. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Leikam: Again the untruth!]] [[Abg. Koppler: That's not true!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] Ladies and gentlemen! On the subject of youth employment. Those who talk to people from the businesses and those who talk to young people know that they could actually reduce the subject: Let the farms train them, let them not hinder them, and let the youth work! She wants to work, she wants to do a job, she wants jobs, she wants a decent training. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Koppler! I can understand that you have no joy with the success story of Upper Austria, because you are standing out in this regard. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Headmaster.]] Nevertheless, I can mention that we in Upper Austria – and I have thought that you will actually be pleased that you as the Upper Austrian could be with you; of course, only if you had brought yourself in – have created more around 2,000 teaching places. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Headmaster.]] This was long-term planning, with the support of all – the country, the businesses, the tradesmen, the close-up between politics and business, ladies and gentlemen! It's not a secret, it's a success recipe. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The ÖVP has presented an apprenticeship package, a youth employment package. Much of what we have implemented in the countries has been done. I would remind you that flat roofs, which Mr Vergestnich has spoken about, can also be improved or rebuilt with the help of apprentices that apprentices can be trained in this area. This is not yet employment policy, however, Mr Vergestnich. There must be more, and we need to get away from these bureaucratic obstacles, we need to move further in order to make it more attractive and easier for the economy to train apprentices. We must also do more – in addition to the hotline and in addition to your accusations, Mr Vergestnich – and we must create political framework conditions and allow the economy to employ young people, to train young people. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Labour market services have a special role to play in this area. It must, together with its labour inspectors, take the view that a major inquisition should be made. Rather, it is intended to act as a consultant and as a trainer for the companies. This is the future of labour market service and labour inspectors. Ladies and gentlemen! We also need start jobs for those who leave AHS, BHS or Uni. We need to allow them a practical teaching. When they apply in the economy, it is often said: Well, they have a good education now, what about their practice? Unfortunately, the young people have to say: We have no practice, we have only done the theoretical training in the higher schools. That is why the ÖVP is calling for start-ups to be created as immediately as possible for these young people in our country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As you, Mr Haider, challenge the demand for a partial teaching or teaching in Upper Austria, I believe that your social understanding in this area does not have to be extended and corrected, because there are simply weaker, weaker young people that we have to meet so that they can learn a profession. We need to create job opportunities for them so that they can be integrated into the work process. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr. Haider! There you can exceptionally join the above Austrian ideas, even if it is hard for you and Achatz. Ladies and gentlemen! In conclusion: We need another emergency programme to deregulation and attract, we need new careers, we also need to ensure flexibility, housing for young people in central places. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e8088	Please note the speaking time!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e8103	I believe that our common objective should be, instead of blaming each other, to give youth employment, training and the future and to secure the specialist location of Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e8133	There are still three words available to me. These will still reach the call, and after that the current hour will be completed. Next word: Mr Schweitzer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e8158	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Federal Minister Hostasch! They have talked about better training, which offers our young people great opportunities in the field of teaching. In fact, your action is already taking place in Upper Austria: Four more courses! I take from the latest information from the labour market service Upper Austria. I looked at what the reason for these four additional teaching places – at least four teaching places! – in Upper Austria: The reason is monthly funding in the framework of the apprenticeship service, within the framework of an apprenticeship initiative. I have looked at this teaching centre initiative of the Federal Government, the labour market service, Mrs. Federal Minister, and I have come to the point that the labour market service pays all those companies a promotion to hire apprentices with a negative degree. Ladies and gentlemen! Is this the multi-qualification that leads to more teaching places? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Murauer: That hurts if the ÖVP has success!]] Mr Murauer! What does that mean? – He/she is the least able to have the best prospects for one of the so coveted jobs! [[Prolonged calls of the Abg. Murauer.]] The so-called teaching places promotion of the AMS – I quote; why become You so red in the face, Mr. Murauer? – for drop-outs is 2 400 S per month, for a whole year. For drop-outs, not for well qualified people, but for people with negative school qualifications, the Federal Government is committed with a large number of financial resources! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Not the achievement, not what you can, counts in this country, but the non-performance is rewarded in that country! This is the typical continuation of the socialist path carried by the ÖVP. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Not the hardworking, but those who do not want to work are supported! [[New condolences with the liberals.]] What does that mean for young people? – They must already consider whether they should at all strive for a positive degree, ladies and gentlemen. Those wishing to have more opportunities in this country must strive for a negative degree of education. Such promotion of the labour market is incredible! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The concept of SPÖ is: State support for all those who cannot. This is a way we do not go, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Tegischer: This is a premise!]] But this drop-out support, which corresponds exactly to your mentality, Mr Koppler, this drop-out support is the consistent continuation of a completely missing socialist education policy. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]] They are the cause of degrading the primary school to the rest of the school with negative readout. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Headmaster.]] These graduates, of course, are difficult to accommodate on the Austrian labour market, because only the negative selectr is trying to obtain apprenticeships. They have completely ruined the primary school with the introduction of the performance levels, with the abolition of the admission examination for AHS; You've degraded the primary school to the rest of the school. What actually remains for the apprenticeship market? What's going on? – On the whole, a selection of intellectual and socially disadvantaged remains. We must then try, with generous public support, to accommodate them on the labour market. And that's why fewer and fewer firms recruit apprentices, since they don't even meet the minimum requirements; that's the real reason. Ladies and gentlemen! From this dilemma only a comprehensive reform of the primary school frees us, only it can really solve the dilemma. In no case, however, there is a need for dubious premiums for negative selection. That is why we propose the reform of the primary school: the replacement of the performance groups, the abolition of the word-identical curriculum – in the future the primary education plans are to be professionally related – and above all the 9th. Finally, school year as a professional year, which is counted as the training period, makes it attractive. Then the apprentice, who has already completed a year of training, becomes more interesting to the economy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is not the stupid one that should be promoted, but the diligent one that has to be sent to school less, because he has learned more before. This is the right way for a reasonable teaching policy in this country, but not this missed socialist way, carried by the ÖVP.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e8270	Mrs Maria Schaffenrath. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e8294	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! I mean, the concern about young people and their ability to receive training is justified, but there are some words of gladness about the fact that measures have already taken place, I think I am really sorry, because the situation will worsen considerably over the next few years. Today, to say that in the summer or before the parliamentary break, we have decided on a reform package which is now taking hold, I think, of a real exaggeration; this package has not really deserved the name of reform. Mrs Fekter! I am pleased that you have spoken here today as an entrepreneur. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Good, very good!]] I would very much like you to vote once again as an entrepreneur, perhaps accompanied by the President of the Chamber of Commerce, perhaps accompanied by the Secretary-General Dr. Stummvoll. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: We always do that!]] This would be of benefit, I believe, especially in the field of training systems. I remember: This so-called reform package was also supported by your side. We have massive shortcomings in the vocational training law, we have the quasipragmatization of apprentices, there are provisions in the Child and Youth Employment Act that require entrepreneurs to stop apprenticeship training; I am reminding of bakers, meaters, the trade industry in this context. There is no permanent cost relief for companies, no attraction and flexibility to make this training system more attractive to efficient and efficient young people. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Mrs. Colleague! We're full of you!]] – Then please also vote that way, and don’t just speak in the media and from this pult in this direction! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Mrs Sozialminister! It is not a solution to "parking" those who will not have a place of training in a school system, nor in an area where we already have a 40 per cent drop-out rate and unlikely repetitious quotas, which are costing billions of money. The development was predictable. However, necessary structural measures have not been put in place in time by this government. Now there are crisis management-like support actions by the AMS. Mr Oellinger has already referred to the burden on the future budget. But not just that. In fact, this massive funding system also disadvantages all those companies that have already actually assumed their responsibility for training. It does not agree in this area either. We have already been told by many that entrepreneurs want only the appropriate framework conditions. But this promotion is also less favourable to the next group of departures. There will be tougher births, and this exodus of the labour or apprenticeship market through massive promotions, perhaps also helping to fulfill the populist promises of the Federal Chancellor in this direction, will at least go at the expense of the coming apprentices. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In addition to the very serious problems of apprentices, we also have around 20 000 young people aged 19 to 25 who do not have a job in the business sector despite completed training in the school sector. Your report "Youth, Education, Employment" even confirms that there are discrepancies between training and employment. Therefore, it is urgently necessary to highlight the training objectives, the training content in our entire school system, and to introduce the necessary flexibilizations and ongoing adjustments towards new occupations, especially in future economic areas. Now, of course, very cost-intensive post-qualifications will be necessary, and I hope that the AMS will still have sufficient resources in place despite this promotion. Nor do we forget the 8,000 unemployed young teachers who still have no place in billions of overtime budgets. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] While the Minister of Education – I am at the conclusion – is still negotiating whether only actual overtimes should be paid, these people are waiting for a job. With announcements and crisis management measures, we will certainly not be able to meet the threat of youth unemployment.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e8379	Mrs Petrovic. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e8400	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! High house! The Socialist Group has – almost I would like to say: how a government group of its own does, of course – been looking for an area in the selection of its theme at a current hour, where, in its opinion, its own member of the government can shine where one can point to success. Of course, it is also positive if, at least once, political attention has been paid to the field of apprentices and apprenticeship training. But at the same time you also take substantial negative appearances into account. It is only because you now call this issue a political main task, a political main focus, that it separates others. They operate with a narrowed youth concept. My previous speaker has already pointed out: What about the graduates of the AHS? What about the young people after a higher education that is in front of nothing? Don't they deserve the same attention of this federal government? What about young women who are to be forced back to the herd by the savings packages, a conservative ideology? You know there are no childcare facilities in sufficient number and quality. What about the disabled? Even if they – which is rarely enough anyway – receive training, what happens to them afterwards when the enterprises, even the public services, buy themselves free from their obligation to recruit disabled people? What about all these employees? What happens in the field of training itself? It has been pointed out that the primary school tends to become a residual school, a residual school. Why Make Are you not, then, the only courageous political step towards a common school of every 10 to 15 years? Where's political courage? Is it not true that one could also make this a question of koalititon that one should not have done it for a long time? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I ask you about social democracy: Where's the political courage? That would be necessary! If it is true that the school should serve life, I believe that special talents can only prove themselves in the social community. It is an important segment to get out of the apprenticeship market, but I tell you, you are in danger of losing sight of all the other areas of training and careers. Another important point: People and especially young people are planning for their lives. But what should I say to a young person today – be it an apprentice, an AHS graduate, a student or a university graduate? We all know what's going on in the labour market: Stop of recruitment in the public service and no more promotions for the conversion of – it is almost cynical to say – "older" workers from 35. It seems that old iron has already been used for this federal government since that age. What about the young people? Where are they going? The Federal Government has no answer. It's being pressured so people don't go to early retirement because it's no longer eligible for funding. But where are the young people to stay? Then what is in the middle of her life? What's their perspective? I miss a real effort, a quantifiable advance of social democracy, of trade unions towards reduction of working time. We do not create the problems of the world if you play out the old against the boys, the apprentices against the students. We need a redistribution of work and money. There's enough work for everyone, maybe not for 40 hours, but certainly for 30 hours. 30 hours are now enough. But what are you doing? – They work on the common monetary union, on common markets. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]] A common social area...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e8455	Please put to the conclusion, Madam President.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e8470	... a common fight against unemployment, a European reduction in working time now, here and today – that would be the task!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e8497	The current hour is over. I respectfully welcome Mr Klestil, President of the Federal Republic of Germany, who has appeared here in the house. Welcome! [[General condolences.]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e8528	With regard to the negotiated items and their allocation, I refer to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the written communication. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e8936	In addition, the following government proposal has been reached: The Treaty of the International Telecommunications Union, the Annexes and the Optional Protocol and the Kyoto 1994 Amending Acts, together with the annex and reservations of the Republic of Austria in 844 of the Supplements. After consultation with the members of the President's Conference, I suggest that we distance ourselves from the assignment of this subject to a committee and put it on the agenda for the next meeting. On the other hand, are there any objections? - That's not the case. That's what I'm going to do. Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e8963	I inform you that before entering the agenda, Members of Parliament asked Mr Anschober and Mr Comrades to deal urgently with the self-employed motion for a resolution 555/A (E) by Mr Anschober and Mr Comrades concerning Heeres-Secretary Services Under the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, the call for such a request and discussion will take place at 3 p.m. Request for a brief debate on the response to the question 2702/AB
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e8990	I would also like to say that the request made pursuant to paragraph 92 of the Rules of Procedure is a short debate on the reply of the honourable Member's question 2829/J. Trattner and comrades with regard to the separate sale of PSK shares at the Austrian lottery GesmbH by the Federal Minister for Finance. The answer to the question has the number 2702/AB. As a matter of urgency, this brief debate will be held at the end of the debate on the urgent request. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e9014	I would like to sum up the debate on points 2 to 7 and 9 and 10 of today's agenda. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. We'll do that. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e9038	We are going into the agenda for today's sitting. The following consensus was reached on the duration of the debates: Daily block speaking time of 8 "Vienna hours" so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ 120 minutes, ÖVP 112, Free 104, Liberal Forum and Greens each 72 minutes. We shall now proceed to the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign in this regard. – This is adopted by a majority after appropriate preliminary consultation. 1. Point Declaration by the Federal Minister for Finance on the Government Template on the Federal Finance Act for 1998, including investments
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e9085	We'll get to the 1st. Agenda item. I give the floor to the Federal Minister for Finance. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e9109	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I will present to you today the draft budget for 1998, which will be discussed here in the House in the next few weeks and, as I hope and am convinced, will be decided. This 1998 budget is the financial framework and the expression of what the Austrian Federal Government has done in terms of political tasks and objectives. However, we must be aware of this – and I am very aware of it – that the design possibilities of national policies are more limited today because of the importance of international developments than before. The world around us is changing faster and faster. Economic competition has become more freer and therefore tougher. It places higher demands on businesses and also on workers, and this also involves the fight for employment and jobs. Efforts to maintain social standards have become more difficult. Europe is in a profound change towards economic and monetary union. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This Union is, in part, the answer and the concept to strengthen us for the new challenges. International cooperation, i.e. cooperation and coordination will become even more important in Europe in the future when it comes to maintaining good living conditions in our country. In many countries a large number of similar causes have limited the scope for action of public budgets. This was the subject of and must be responded to with committed reform measures in order to regain the power of design. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The aim of this Federal Government is to provide our country and people in Austria with the greatest possible level of stability and security at a very moving time. We want to shape our country and many of its institutions in such a way that Austria will continue to be a viable country in the future. Both budgetary policy and the diverse structural reforms serve this objective. I would like to try to illustrate this in four areas. First: We want to further develop Austria's economic location. The budget is intended to provide targeted impetus for more economic growth and employment, because the fight against unemployment is our main objective. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Secondly, We want to guarantee social security to the citizens of our country in the future. However, the social network must remain financially viable and its effectiveness must be improved. We must and will ensure that this is done in good time. Thirdly, We want to make the state and its institutions more efficient and even more oriented to the needs of the citizens. We have started a number of structural measures to make management easier and slimmer, and we will continue to work on it. Fourth: In an ever tougher global competition, which offers many opportunities, we want to give our country a stable and secure place in the new Europe. We will succeed if we take part in the league of the strongest economic nations, namely the European Economic and Monetary Union. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Highly esteemed ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian Federal Government has already brought considerable achievements to bear in meeting the new challenges. For example, Austria has become one of the world's most price-stable countries by joining the EU, and a good economic and monetary policy has supported this. We also have the second lowest unemployment rate in the European Union and one of the lowest in the world. Finally, the quality of life and the environment, social peace and security are hardly elsewhere as great as in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! These qualities are intended to preserve the Federal Government and ensure the future. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] But that doesn't work without active support. Budgetary consolidation was a first step. It created the basic, namely the financial prerequisite for ensuring employment and the social system. Many other important structural reforms were started last year and still need to follow. This government has proved its competence to act. Within just 18 months, ladies and gentlemen, the financial basis for the entire legislative period 1996 to 1999 could be drawn up with two double budgets. The first issue in the 1998 budget is to ensure fiscal consolidation, to press ahead with the necessary structural reforms and, third, to create new impetus for growth and employment. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! However, it is necessary to continue to show a corresponding sparingness in the future. Since we have continued along this path in the previous year and this year, there will be neither a savings package nor new taxes nor drastic expenditure cuts in 1998 nor in 1999. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] On the contrary: Despite other claims, there will be an increase in pensions as well as the necessary additions to the social structure of our state. New creative support initiatives will support the structural change of the economy and thus contribute to the employment of people. Highly esteemed ladies and gentlemen! The 1998 Federal Estimate provides revenue of 682 billion Schilling, expenditure of 749.3 billion Schilling and thus a decrease of 67.3 billion Schilling. This corresponds to 2.6 percent of the gross domestic product of approximately 2,555 billion schilling. The budget deficit will therefore be only slightly higher than the economic growth forecast for 1998, and in 1999 growth will already exceed the current deficit. The 1998 budget deficit will therefore continue to decline. The consolidation of Austrian state finances, which began in 1996 and 1997, will be ensured by means of expenditure discipline - I have mentioned this - taking into account the social balance and the economic impact as well as gaps on the revenue side. However, political decisions are still needed to establish the basis for individual revenue and expenditure positions. Ladies and gentlemen! However, I do not think it is unusual if, at the time of the budget speech, everything is not fixed in detail, such as the salary round for officials or the pension adjustment. Of course, we are continuing to work consistently and at the necessary pace in all these areas. I should like to say, for example, that yesterday evening the desired agreement with the teachers was reached in the areas of re-evaluation of overtime, the calculation of working time for matura classes, the early retirement scheme and the Sabbathical. . You see, we are moving forward to the reform. In this context, I would like to thank Mrs Bundesminister Gehrer and Mr Ruttensdorfer very much for her work. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] The 1998 Federal Estimate builds on good foundations, as the 1997 budget execution is scheduled. Many European finance ministers would be happy if they could report this to their Parliament. If you follow the European debate, you will see that there are budget debates, budget discussions and discussions within and outside Parliaments everywhere, but in almost all other countries there are concerns about the implementation of the 1997 budget. I can tell you quite clearly that we are on the road in this respect, that we will meet the objectives of the 1997 budget and that we are one of the few countries in Europe that are dealing with the 1998 budget at a very early stage. The 1999 budget will be presented to this House in spring and will ensure that investors, i.e. those who need to help us move the economy forward, have the security needed to stimulate investment. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I have said that revenue is developing to the necessary extent. Many expenditures could be slowed down in their dynamics. The structural reforms launched in the previous year have taken place. Austria will therefore also meet the participation criteria for economic and monetary union with the 1997 budget. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] High house! I would particularly like to see my predecessor, Federal Chancellor Mag. Viktor Klima, expressly thank you for his difficult but successful work in the previous year. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would remind you that at the beginning of the previous year we had to work out a comprehensive and profound consolidation programme for the federal budget, as several developments had come together in the years before which the budgetary situation had worsened dramatically. These were mainly recession-related losses and increases in expenditure in 1992/93, the increase in public employment, additional family and social benefits decided in 1992/93, and significant loss of revenue by the 1994 tax reform. The budget deficit doubled between 1992 and 1995 to around 118 billion schilling. If there had been no change in deficit development, the budgetary policy margin would have been completely lost. The debt would have increased even more, and more and more tax revenue would have to be spent on interest payments. Even today, ladies and gentlemen, almost every seventh budget schilling has to be spent solely on the interest of public debt; Budget resources which could be used without any doubt for investment, employment, support, training or social protection. Therefore, reducing the deficit and limiting debt are not self-interest or, for example, a task imposed by Brussels, as some believe or claim. A reasonable, economical budgetary policy does not lead to unemployment, but, on the contrary, it is even the prerequisite for ensuring employment effectively. So we do not save for the euro, as you often hear, but in our greatest interest as Austrians. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] spend less budget money on interest and debt, but have more budget money for services to citizens and the economy, that is – simply – our medium-term budget target. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Budgetary policy is therefore not self-evident, but a very crucial factor in Austrian economic policy. Budgetary policy is crucial in employment and then when it comes to financing the welfare state's services. In the last few decades, we have made it unbelievable that our economy, productivity, employment and incomes have grown more than in many other comparable countries. We are among the richest countries in the world, and we want that to continue. Our vision or vision of Austria is that of a fair market economy, a fair market economy with social responsibility for people and with ecological responsibility for our environment. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! A successful economy, high-performance public services, the opportunity for every person to find work, a just society, an intact environment and a living democracy are consensusable values on a broad basis. Fair conditions of competition, low inflation rates, investment in research and development, well-trained employees, first-class infrastructure, global market development are success factors for our future. These success factors and these consistent values must be supported by economic policies. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Budgetary policy plays a crucial role in this. We can say today that we have succeeded in minimising the negative economic effects of fiscal consolidation and limiting the temporary reduction of growth to 1996. In 1997, the growth process is no longer slowed down, which led the Institute of Economic Research to establish in the spring of 1997 that the restrictive effect of fiscal consolidation could prove to be weaker than was initially feared many times. This forecast has been confirmed by reality. The signals show up again clearly. We are in the middle of an economic upturn. Austria will overcome the decline in growth in recent years with an economic growth of 2.5 percent in 1998. An even stronger growth is expected for 1999. This year, inflation will be 1.4 percent – August values are 1.2 percent – and 1.6% will remain at its low level next year. Austria has thus halved its inflation rate compared to the period before accession to the EU. The stability of prices will continue in the coming years – and I am convinced of this. Highly esteemed ladies and gentlemen! Austria's international competitiveness will improve both through improvements in the unit labour costs of the industry and by a slight decrease in the real effective exchange rate vis-à-vis its trading partners, even if appropriate support measures are to be taken. The growth impulses, which I believe, out of question, will come mainly from net exports, which will also reduce the current account deficit. However, this year and next year, economic growth will not be enough to significantly reduce the unemployment rate. Today, the Austrian unemployment rate of 4.4 percent is hardly half as high as that of Germany. In Austria, as I believe, a marked decline in unemployment is only to be expected for 1999. But what follows it quite clearly? – That we must continue our efforts to combat unemployment with all our strength. The Federal Government will therefore contribute actively and, above all, to the economic development and increase of the number of employees. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] To this end, we have drawn up a series of economic and employment initiatives which I would like to draw up on the basis of some examples. Highly esteemed ladies and gentlemen! Our efforts must particularly apply to the reduction of structural weaknesses within the economy. A significant signal – I mentioned this – is the Austrian current account, which has deteriorated significantly in recent years. Tourism cannot cover the major deficits of the trade balance. For this year, the Wifo predicts a current account deficit of almost 55 billion schilling. In 1991 we were able to have surpluses. The Austrian Federal Government is therefore taking concrete steps to improve the position of foreign trade. These are – I just mention this as an example – the further reduction in the budget deficit, the reduction of shopping tourism abroad by offensive measures and, above all, our technology and export offensive, which I will come to speak about. In particular, we expect decisive and longer-term impulses for growth and employment. Highly esteemed ladies and gentlemen! More exports, because the company's export radius is expanding and new markets are being opened up, but also more revenue from exports, because its quality and value must increase through research and development, are our goal. We will therefore set up new guarantee funds of the financing guarantee company and expand the FGG into an investment company for projects abroad. We will improve the control bank's export financing and guarantee system. And together with the Chamber of Commerce, we are looking for advice on small and medium-sized enterprises. We should thus succeed in overcoming the forecast real export growth of 8.5 percent in 1998. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Know-how is a key to the success of our economy. Above all, we need to support the development and also the benefits of new technologies. We have therefore already provided additional resources for this purpose – the so-called technology billions – this year. However, I say quite frankly that I believe that the technology offensive is not only about more money, but primarily about the fact that public research expenditure is also being used more effectively. From a budgetary point of view, it is not efficient to finance research loans from budget resources. We are therefore developing new financing concepts. For example, we will strengthen the involvement of banks in technology promotion. ERP funding will also be used to finance the financing of technology projects close to the market. However, I would like to mention that in 1998 the total expenditure of the federal government – all the joint departments together – will amount to around 17 billion schilling. We must also succeed in setting priorities in the economic field. One of our problems is that the public share of research expenditure in Austria is 50 percent, in the EU average 39 percent. We must therefore find methods and funding support, which also involve private capital to a greater extent in research and development in this country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In addition to improving financial support, it is also a question of providing assistance in the implementation of research and development in promising exportable products. That means that we also want to improve the advisory services. We want to support strategy development, action planning and marketing wherever this is possible in cooperation between science and the economy, public and private resources in the public and private sectors. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We also use structurally effective measures to support the domestic construction industry and at the same time to improve infrastructure. A developed infrastructure – and I believe that this finding is beyond doubt – is the basis for growth in productivity in the economy, which in turn is a prerequisite for greater competitiveness and thus employment. The major infrastructure initiative for increased railway construction is called. Every year we will invest up to 12 billion schilling in important projects. Only recently did the Federal Government even extend the liability framework for the rail infrastructure financing company and thus allow for further projects, both important transport and employment policy options for the future. The redesign of the ASFINAG will also enable us to maintain the demand for construction services in the sense of an offensive economic policy without having to put a higher burden on the budget on the other hand. It is not a constant budget grant for new road constructions, ladies and gentlemen, but a rational, self-responsible management of the high-level road network in many areas is our goal. But that also means – and I say this quite openly – that new construction projects can only be realized to the extent that there is revenue from the management. A breakdown of the ASFINAG from the Federal Budget and thus also of debt of around 80 billion schilling at the same time leads to a significant reduction in the debt level of the overall state. This will fall as a percentage of the gross domestic product from 70.2 percent in the previous year to 67.5% in this year. We are therefore also on the right track with regard to the convergence criteria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The transfer of numerous federal properties to the Bundesimmobiliengesellschaft will also be another impetus for the realization of construction projects. In the context of construction, however, I would also like to mention that the increase in housing aid cannot be neglected. A comprehensive reform package in building savings will continue to ensure this most attractive savings form, but will facilitate access to construction savings for the construction savers. It is particularly important – and I do not want to forget – for many people in the cities in particular that building savings can also be used in future for the acquisition of rental and cooperative apartments. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! We all – the government, the economy, the population – must offensively promote and support the structural change that strengthens us for the major new economic challenges – integration into Europe, the opening up of the East and globalisation. More economic growth, the improvement of Austria's economic location and the success of the technology and export offensive will depend decisively on the commitment and skills of employees. This means that a further focus of this federal government is on the education and training of the Austrian population. We have an internationally recognised education, training and training system. Therefore, when it came to budgeting, it was clear that: In this area too, we must take measures to ensure even more quality from apprenticeship training to higher education and to ensure a targeted but also economic-oriented teaching and learning. The challenge of lifelong learning is increasing. In this context, I would like to mention for example the partial right of schools, which will give them more freedom for their own initiative and provide budgetary support, the German Federal Government's apprentices' offensive to increase the number of apprenticeships offered, or the reform projects in higher education. This is also reflected in concrete figures. Expenditure in the classroom will increase by 2.3 billion schilling in 1998. In addition, 250 teachers are included. In the field of science and research, expenditure will be higher by 2 billion schilling. This will allow the universities to re-occupy necessary places. Instead, it is saved at the central offices. Qualification programmes for workers are promoted and dealt with, in particular, through the proven labour market service. Active assistance to people who are threatened or affected by unemployment will continue to be of high importance in Austria. The focus will be on targeted programmes for older and long-term unemployed, as well as help for young people. However, re-entry assistance for women – e.g. after childhood education – is also needed. Austria is a social state. For us, man is in the foreground, and so it will remain. This is also reflected in the 1998 budget. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] High house! The safeguarding of this social state and pensions is a very important, crucial concern for the Austrian Federal Government. Our social system is very well developed in terms of quantity and quality compared to other countries. It's one of the best. Around a quarter of the budget will be spent on social, family and pension services in the coming year. In other words, the federal government spends every fourth budget for social services to its citizens. However, we must also recognise that there are developments that could endanger the financing of our social system. New forms of employment, for example, reduce the circle of insured persons and have an adverse impact on contributions. The increasing proportion of older people and the increasing life expectancy significantly increase expenditure on pensions and health care. Ladies and gentlemen! However, the response to this cannot be in social reduction. That's not our goal. On the contrary: We want to safeguard and maintain the performance of our system in the long term. But it costs a lot of money, courage and creativity. We must therefore constantly review our social system and adopt measures to ensure its reliability and financial viability. If changes are necessary, they are done in the interest of securing this our most important system. The Federal Government has therefore developed a series of measures to stabilise contribution development, ensure the financing of the social system and even increase the social network. I would like to mention the most important of these: First: In a new social security system, in principle, all incomes of employment – i.e. every self-employed person – are to be taken into account up to the maximum contribution basis. Secondly, Poor workers – and this is very important at a time of structural changes in the labour market – are included in the social system. We need to improve the social protection of these most vulnerable people in the labour market. Thirdly, Farmers and self-employed will increase the level of self-financing in pension insurance through sustainable and structural measures. Fourth: A bundle of measures is intended to increase the actual retirement age. Older workers should be able to work part-time or to take long-term leave. Active labour market policies and the extension of sliding pensions are intended to support the longer employment of older workers. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! In the public debate there was and there is a lot of unrest, but also a lot of disinformation. In particular, budgetary measures have been combined with long-term reform of pension reform. I would like to make it clear again at this point: There will be a pension increase next year. Nevertheless, we need to make changes in time to ensure that the pension system and its financing are safeguarded in the long term. In his opinion, the internationally recognized expert Professor Rürup strongly recommends taking up structural, long-term effective reforms, such as the increase in the calculation period. We want to do this cautiously and gradually. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] The initial discussion on the necessary reform steps should continue and be completed in the next few weeks. The Federal Government is aware of its responsibility and is also interested in maintaining the Austrian way of dealing with problems. The social partners are and remain competent interlocutors, and it is in line with Austrian political culture that we all work together to meet the tasks. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Our common objective must therefore be to ensure the pension system in Austria in the long term, to make it more efficient, stable, transparent, but also fairer. An important step is the gradual approximation of all public pension schemes. There must be a fairer relationship between contributions, public grants and pensions. It is also a question of greater transparency in the financing of pensions and the design of contributions that better corresponds to the performance of the insured groups. The so-called "generational contract" must be safeguarded by a balanced distribution of the burden of old age insurance between young and older people. High house! This government is ready and committed to profound and long-term structural reforms. Another focus of our structural reforms is public administration. In Austria we have an excellent administration in many areas. We want to maintain and improve this power. The possibility of improving quality must therefore be constantly reviewed and exploited. The critical analysis of public tasks has already led to the breakdown of marketable performance areas from the administration. Large areas such as Post, Bahn and Bundesforest have been subdivided and transformed into enterprises in recent years. The self-responsibilities in these services have been increased. However, the responsibility to provide these services is also increased. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Customer and therefore citizen orientation must be declared and lived in the public sector as a matter of course, as a matter of course. The public sector must assume its responsibility for partnership with the private sector. For the conversion from the state of sovereignty to the state of achievement is an important goal for the future. It is clear to the Austrian Federal Government that services must also be adequately paid in the public service. There is no doubt that in the past many progress has been made towards improving incomes in the public sector. However, this needs to be taken more into account in the design and safeguarding of pensions. Because significant shares of the budget are spent on the assets and pensions of the federal staff, on the expenses of teachers and on pensions for public and postal staff. We must succeed in shaping expenditure in such a way as to remain acceptable to taxpayers. Other very important reforms in the public service are therefore under negotiation, and I am confident that, as with teachers, we will also have constructive results at the other open points. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that the Federal Government is acting very responsibly and purposefully in public service reform measures also shows the security sector. Despite saving measures, we do not go over the system with the casting pot or hedge shear. The necessary safeguarding of the EU's external borders or the fight against international crime is important, and they have their price. Therefore, for example, the internal sector will record rising expenditure in 1998. In addition, 500 officials and a performance-oriented payment of the executive will contribute to a better performance of the tasks performed. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I have consciously pointed out only those parts of the budget where structural reforms will occur, areas which are partly in intense discussion, but also those parts that are intended to slow down expenditure dynamics. And in the course of the budgetary negotiations, the focus was on stabilising expenditure. Despite savings and cost stabilisation, expenditure increases in some areas. It is therefore also necessary to provide additional revenue in order to finance the tasks. However, I make it clear and point out again: The objective of the 1998 budget creation – and also the 1999 budget – was and is to achieve the additional revenue needed without new taxes and without increasing tax rates through gaps. I mention the restriction of tax-free cigarette imports from Eastern European countries. As this will also reduce shopping traffic, we expect additional revenue on tobacco, mineral oil and sales tax to be around 4.5 billion schilling due to increased domestic turnover. The border regions in particular should thus also recover from economic power. This measure is therefore not only a fiscal policy but also an important contribution to regional development. In the field of direct taxation, two temporary measures will be taken to relieve the budget: Decisions on the exemption will be suspended for another year. For the self-employed, the 5-percent supplement for income and corporation tax prepayment will be maintained in 1998. Both measures do not create a lasting burden on those concerned. Both measures are, of course, fully taken into account in the taxation process. Highly esteemed ladies and gentlemen! With the changeover of the insurance and car tax from quarterly to monthly payment – following a suggestion from this House – revenue is expected to add 1.5 billion schilling in the coming year. The stamp fees were last adjusted to inflation in 1984 – i.e. 14 years ago – and are therefore to be increased by 50 percent from 1.1.1998. This will increase the revenue of the State by about 1.2 billion schilling. As already mentioned, a reform package has been developed during construction savings. In addition, the construction savings premium will in future be dynamically adjusted to the general interest rate level. For the budget, it is important that the building savings banks no longer make a monthly call to the state, but only once a year. As a result, the 1998 budget will be reduced by around 1.8 billion schilling. Finally, the revenue of the State will be improved by the proceeds from privatization, which we have invested in 1998 with around 3 billion schilling. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Major federal privatisation projects, for example in the field of nationalized industry, are, as you know, completed or very advanced in other areas. However, the sale of public equity – I would like to see this already in connection with today’s presentation – is not only for business or budget reasons. Privatisation issues always have macroeconomic aspects and are therefore a matter of economic policy. Well-known examples remind us of caution when selling companies. In my view, such caution is a command of economic reason. We need to be careful – and I am saying this completely specific and clear – that strategic ownership and therefore central corporate functions such as planning, research and development remain anchored even after a company sale in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We will have to ensure that, in the case of upcoming privatisations, Austrian enterprises and industrial value added are preserved – as far as economically feasible. This objective will only be possible through strategic participations, particularly in key industrial sectors. There are new tasks to be addressed to the ÖIAG, which it has already taken over as a core shareholder at industrial companies today. We will strengthen and expand this important function of the ÖIAG in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Privatisations have also revived the Austrian capital market. Overall, capital markets have been strongly liberalised worldwide in the last two decades. A high-interest monetary policy based on the USA in the early 1980s and followed in many countries has made financial investments more profitable than real investment. The mobile production factor capital is increasingly affecting economic activity, where returns are often more important than human skill. I think it is time for an economic policy in Europe to focus on people, their active participation in the Community and fair conditions of competition. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] For unemployment is not only, as many believe, a social problem, but also an immense economic problem. If, therefore, we are looking for reforms for the domestic capital market, we want our economy to be helped in the provision of capital. This is an important prerequisite for investment and thus for growth and employment in Austria. We also provide for the conversion of the stock exchange into a stock company and for improved protection of minority shareholders in case of acquisitions. Highly esteemed ladies and gentlemen! High house! The possibilities of national economic policies in an economy in international competition are increasingly limited, but still crucial, as many practical examples show. We must therefore take advantage of the opportunities for greater participation. It is the modern recipe for achieving a good position in global competition for our country, that is to say, that not obsolete, unfulfilled illusions of a closed, nationally manageable economy are rushing down, but more strongly at a common, international, and especially European level. [[Congratulation with SPÖ and ÖVP as well as the Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen.]] European integration is progressing rapidly and will be a major highlight in economic and monetary union. To exclude itself from this development would be detrimental to our country. However, EMU will also bring changed economic, fiscal and monetary challenges. The increased globalisation of the economy has created a large number of competitors for European economies, in areas previously reserved for the highly developed countries. Globalisation, on the other hand, offers great opportunities again – opportunities we have to see. A common European economic and location policy can be stronger and more successful than the efforts of individual smaller European countries. The opening of the East brought new markets and expansion opportunities for the countries of Central Europe – I am particularly counting Germany and Austria – as well as democratic and stable political conditions in the immediate neighbourhood. But she also put us competitors right in front of the doorstep. These still produce wage costs, which are far below the western European level. The introduction of these countries to Western European standards can therefore have many positive economic and social responsibilities, aspects and effects and is therefore a political task for the rest of Europe. This is a project of European dimension. Ladies and gentlemen! The rules of the market economy, the regulatory framework, must therefore be the focus of common economic policy concerns in Europe. And for us, it is clear that it can only be a social market economy. We therefore do not want to benefit from competition as a result of social, tax or environmental dumping in the interests of a fair market economy. It is therefore clear to the Federal Government that: Europe and Austria also need economic and monetary union. Europe must be one of the three major economic centres in the coming decades alongside the USA and East Asia. Economic and monetary union is necessary. It must come quickly and on time, and Austria must belong to it from the beginning. Only economic and monetary union can permanently ensure Europe's competitiveness over other economic areas. The rapid implementation of economic and monetary union is also necessary because the current phase of European integration could be economically unstable. Completely liberalised capital movements and fixed exchange rates are, in fact, slowing down on a long-term basis, as well as changing exchange rates with a single internal market. A shift in EMU would lead to profound turbulence in the foreign exchange markets. A significant slowing of growth, if not even recession, could be the result of such decisions. Highly esteemed ladies and gentlemen! The calculations by scientists show that only the currency turbulences of 1994 and 1995 slowed economic growth in the hard currency countries by a total of around 1.5 percent. In the future, foreign exchange markets will have less impact on the fate of the European currencies through economic and monetary union. The euro will therefore provide stability and security for the exchange rates of the currencies of the participating countries. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! With increasing economic integration in Europe, Austria's participation in the European Union is gaining importance, coordination and influence on the Union's policies as a whole. We are fully aware of this stronger European responsibility of Austrian politics. We are therefore actively working to strengthen those institutions that will ensure this cooperation. The participants in economic and monetary union must also coordinate their fiscal and economic policies, their monetary, wage and tax policies more than before. The discussions on this are in full swing. It is about more coordination, not only with one another, but also with the future European Central Bank and, as I believe, with the European social partners. This is necessary if we are to win the fight against unemployment in Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The European Council in Amsterdam and the preparations for the employment summit in Luxembourg in November show that it is in the right direction. Steps have been taken to make clear: This EU is not just about money and budget issues, it is about achieving a social Union. It is about the objective of a Union in which people have employment, social security and prosperity. This is what we are working for in this area. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Austria will use the EU Presidency to co-form Europe in the second half of next year. We see it as a great opportunity to have more influence on the agendas, discussions and decisions through the Presidency in various expert, ministerial and governmental meetings. We have already done a number of things. For example, from my point of view, I would like to highlight the focus on the harmonisation of European tax rights and the elimination of anticompetitive tax havens. I started months ago in many bilateral talks with finance ministers from Member States of the European Union to find interest and support for Austria's positions. I believe that a first step must be taken to achieve a minimum taxation of non-resident capital, to strengthen the exchange of information and to establish an effective code of conduct against tax havens. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! In a second step, we want to achieve further European harmonisation in the taxation of labour, capital and energy. Our primary objective is to relieve the labour factor and to ecologize the tax system. But tax harmonisation is a process, a process of permanent approximation of different national tax systems. This objective – namely: Labour, ecologisation, capital taxation – also follows the tax reform committee I set up in spring, which will develop a tax reform for Austria for 2000. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! We face many major and important tasks and challenges. The Federal Government has drawn up a stable and secure basis for the coming years with the Federal Government's 1998 proposal and the 1999 provisional proposal, which will be discussed here in the coming spring. I would like to thank all those who have been constructively involved in the creation of the budget. I would like to thank my colleagues who have been very committed to their implementation on the basis of a common objective. In particular, I would like to thank Mr Hannes Farnleitner, who has conducted all the negotiations. Thank you very much, Minister of State! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I would also like to thank the excellent employees in the Federal Ministry of Finance and the other ministries and bodies who have contributed to the success of these measures with their detailed knowledge and with many ideas. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I assume that the necessary votes for the formulation of the budget accompanying laws are taken in such a timely manner as to allow for equal treatment and decision-making in this House. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! I am trying to see, treat and ultimately decide what it is: a committed undertaking, the attempt of the art of the possible in the next few weeks, but nevertheless a good, stable basis for our country to deal with the tasks of the future. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e9709	I would like to thank Mr Edlinger for his statement. I have a request in accordance with § 69 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure to take the Government paper on the Federal Finance Act for 1998, together with investments - 841 of the Supplements - at first reading. We shall now vote on the request. I ask Members to return to their places. [[Some Members are deeply engaged in discussions.]] Summer's still working. We are now voting on this proposal. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request to give an appropriate sign. – The request for a first reading was accepted by a majority. 2. Point Report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government template (703 of the Supplements): Federal Law laying down sanctions in the event of infringements of Regulation (EC) No. Council Regulation (EC) No 2271/96 of 22 December 1997 on the common organisation of the market in fruit and vegetables (OJ L 227, 22.7.1997, p. 1). In order to protect against the effects of the extraterritorial application of acts adopted by a third country and of measures based on them or resulting from them (850 of the supplements) 3rd. Point Report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government template (705 of the Supplements): Interregional framework agreement on cooperation between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the Mercado Comun del Sur and its participating States, of the other part, and Joint Declaration (851 of the Supplements) 4. Point Report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government template (706 of the Supplements): Framework Agreement on cooperation in the preparation of a political and economic association between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Chile, of the other part, together with the signing protocol and Joint Declarations (852 of the Supplements) 5. Point Report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government template (799 of the Supplements): Protocol to the Agreement on Partnership and Cooperation between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and Ukraine, of the other part, including the Agreement on Partnership and Cooperation annexed thereto, establishing a partnership between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and Ukraine, of the other part, and the Final Act (856 of the Supplements) 6. Point Report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government Template (800 of the Supplements): Protocol to the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement establishing a Partnership between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Russian Federation, of the other part, including the Declaration, annexed to this Agreement, on Partnership and Cooperation establishing a Partnership between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Russian Federation, of the other part, and the Final Act (857 of the Supplements) 7. Point Report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government template (801 of the Supplements): Protocol to the Agreement on Partnership and Cooperation establishing a Partnership between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Moldova, of the other part, including the Declaration, including the Agreement on Partnership and Cooperation annexed thereto, establishing a Partnership between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Moldova, of the other part, and the Final Act (858 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e9828	We now come to points 2 to 7 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We'll start the debate immediately. [[Unrest in the hall.]] Ladies and gentlemen! A little more rest would be desirable. I shall be the first speaker to give Mr Mag. Stadler the word. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e9866	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! The government template under negotiation today is based on a Council Regulation of 22. November 1996, in which expressly – without mentioning the United States of America by name –... [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] The introduction of this Council Regulation points out that the United States of America is breaking international law by its laws, regulations and other acts and their extraterritorial application. Ladies and gentlemen! It is stated in the introduction to the Council Regulation: A third country – meaning the United States of America – breaks applicable international law. This refers to two laws, the Helms-Burton Act and the D’Amato Act. The first is against Cuba, the second law is against Iran and against Libya. Ladies and gentlemen! America has not passed these laws because it is about securing any human rights that always serve as a pretext if the Americans want to safeguard their economic and political interests. No, this time – as is admitted openly – it is about preserving the political and economic interests of the United States of America in these three countries. The relevant acts are directed against firms subject to the jurisdiction of the European Community, over which the Americans have no jurisdiction at all – Mrs State Secretary, you will remember the corresponding debate in the Committee – so that the Americans, because they claim a jurisdictional power, simply break and simply apply international law. But now the European Union is going here and saying: Companies interested in the conduct of international law by the American courts and the American State must report this to the authorities of the European Union within 30 days. If this message remains, a punishment will be imposed. The relevant government template calls the level of punishment and creates the legal basis for this by calling it administrative violation. Those who don't report come not only to the American sheath, but are also punished by their own state with a million schillings. Ladies and gentlemen! This is the policy of the European Union! Mrs. State Secretary! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That's incredible!]] You and your party have explained to us that the European Union will make Europe more united against America and will be better able to protect the interests of European companies against America. Where is the protection granted by the European Union to companies which are unjustly, under the international law in force, by the Americans for political and economic reasons? Where is this protection, ladies and gentlemen? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] He is not present, yes these companies are also punished! The Council Regulation clearly points out that, if the companies concerned have to pay compensation, they themselves have to take care to replace them. In this case, they may have to bring an action in America themselves in order to enforce, against a decision of an American court, a compensation for the punishments that America has given them. – It is not a question of the European Union taking action against those measures which are necessary and customary under international law and which have been practised by the countries concerned for centuries: retortion measures. Mrs. State Secretary! Please explain this to me! They were unable in the Committee to say why the European Union does not do what is always done by third parties when international law is broken: that is to say, to resort to retortion measures, just as the Americans themselves show the Europeans. If the case of dollar bananas is common to you, you will know how the Americans brutally enforced their own interests in the export of bananas: because they have already drawn up a list in case the European states do not adhere to it, a list showing which products in America are charged with customs duties, from champagne to cheese and red wine, a complete list of retortion measures. Where is such a list in Europe, which will then apply if the US authorities break applicable international law? There's no talk about that! However, as in the government paper, it is well said that the companies that do not comply with their reporting obligations, if they are punished by the Americans and accept this punishment, are also punished with a million schilling in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! It is incredible how the Americans are also promoting the breach of international law! It is incredible how you are kneeling at the expense of European companies with your entire European Union! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: The Americans are also being asked to do so!]] The Secretary of State has told us in committee that: It is just so terrible that at present we have only one world power, namely the Americans, and against this a world power of the Americans is unfortunately not possible. We're going to sit down. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That's an invitation!]] These American world police efforts are also being encouraged by the threat of their own companies with punishments up to a million schillings, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] High house! You cannot seriously expect that such a form of extradition of your own companies will break the practice of a state which is clearly and unfounded in international law before the whole world public, and the fact that this is also reflected in the Council's regulation that such a procedure is therefore only a political group of the House, unless your own, which is playing a part everywhere, is still in support! Or do you really believe that you can think of us or anyone else in this country to support your policy of double-punishing companies on the American side and, above all, on the Austrian side? We call on you to ensure in the European Union that retortion measures are taken against the breach of international law – even if the international lawbreaker is America! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Proper companies are being punished!]] We call on you to do what the Americans have done in the case of the "dollar bananas" and in any other case: to take retortion measures against the breach of international law, instead of punishing Austrian companies with up to one million!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e9975	The next speaker is Mr Spindelegger. I give you the floor. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e9996	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Today's agenda contains three points that play a crucial role in our future after we have become a member of the European Union. It is about the agreements with Ukraine, the Russian Federation and the Republic of Moldova. These are agreements which have not yet been ratified and which are subject to certain shadows of development in these countries. That is why we in the Committee have discussed whether we should place or agree to a sign in spite of some developments that do not meet our expectations. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You have not set any signs!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I think we have made the right decision. Would it make sense to say: We simply do not ratify the fact that we are turning our backs on these countries and on the development as a whole, although we want to achieve the exact opposite. [[Abg. Scheibner: Set characters!]] We want democracy policy to come into force there, which corresponds to those we expect from a large community of states. That is why we voted in committee. That is what I believe we have made the right decision. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is, of course, in a broader context, namely the enlargement of the European Union. It has once again been significant to me how the FPÖ has acted on this issue in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, but also in all the discussions on this enlargement process: She says no, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Scheibner: Out of conviction!]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I would now like to tell you what this - consistently thought - is actually a FPÖ foreign policy aimed at EU enlargement. [[Abg. May. Schreiner: Better than you who are only focused on the interests of abroad!]] First, my dear colleague Schreiner: Where are you living? They live in a world where the European Union has decided that six months after the Intergovernmental Conference, there is the first step towards enlargement. You're saying no. Where do you live? – You live away from any reality! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Your policy, ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party, is a totally unrealistic one that does not look into the facts! [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Note the vocabulary you use!]] A second point, ladies and gentlemen: If you are against enlargement, against the transfer of economic stability to these countries, then take the risk that there will be a relapse in communist times and we will have a stove of instability in our immediate neighborhood. That's not what we want, ladies and gentlemen. We don't want any danger in our environment, but we want safety. That's why we're against your way. Your policy is a dangerous foreign policy! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: Do we have to swallow everything?]] Let's think about that one step further. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: Which vocabulary do you use?]] Is it really a majority to oppose the enlargement of the European Union? – No, not at all! That's not a majority. What would it mean if Austria opposed itself within the EU? – It would mean that we are considered ridiculous that we must take note of isolation within the European Union. [[Abg. Scheibner: If you are a European, why are you not in the European Parliament? You weren't so convinced of your qualities!]] Your foreign policy, ladies and gentlemen, would be aimed at bringing Austria into an isolated position. We don't want that! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Your own party doesn't want him!]] It has therefore become clear to me once again: Her foreign policy goes beyond the facts, she's dangerous and she'd put us in isolation. Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! You're not a government party, you're a negation party, and I think you've proved it once more. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: You are a cover-up party!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have taken a different path, borne by the fears of the citizens. We want to try to show them the way to the enlargement of the European Union with a realistic approach. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: A few have failed than the young colleague!]] We believe that the Easter enlargement process should be defined, but also clear accompanying measures. Negotiations need to be made to ensure that a timetable is met first, which will allow for Easter enlargement only if the economic and social conditions in these countries are actually fulfilled and that meaningful participation in the internal market is possible. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: You are already starting with the negotiations!]] Secondly, we believe that we must limit the contribution by 1.27%, calculated by our gross domestic product. So we do not want to finance everything else, but we want to stick to the current contribution to the European Union. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Illusorically! Whoever was at the round table knows that this is illusory!]] Thirdly, we also call for specific framework conditions especially for those regions that are on the border with the former Eastern countries. We want special border support and direct grants to companies in the border region, which are particularly affected by such development. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is a way which, as I believe, corresponds to reality, which shows us prospects and takes account of the changes. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: Resist better knowledge!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Your policy of a negation party will not take us further. I also think, ladies and gentlemen, that today we should also look to a success of our foreign policy. Yesterday, an agreement was signed in Oslo by 89 states aimed at a general ban on anti-personnel mines. – Ladies and gentlemen! This is specific Austrian foreign policy! [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Karlsson.]] Zig thousands of Austrians, initiated by the Red Cross, have known themselves with their signature on this issue, because this is a humanitarian project that we should all in fact stand on. [[Abg. Grossruck: Young was against it!]] [[Abg. Großruck: He voted against it!]] However, it is also thanks to the representatives of the Austrian Ministry of Foreign Affairs that 89 states have acted against the resistance of countries such as the United States and have taken a decision in this regard. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Kröll.]] – Ladies and gentlemen! This is a major milestone in our foreign policy, especially in the interests of humanity, in view of Austria's reputation. Federal Minister! I should like to congratulate you on this. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: There were the liberals against it too! They're for the mines!]] In this context, the liberals have once again given an example of their being a negation party. We cannot give this our consent. We want a positive foreign policy, one that achieves something for Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: They lay mines everywhere!]] I think we have appropriate representatives on the government bank to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e10356	The next speaker is Mrs Gredler. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e10377	Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! It is interesting that the Foreign Minister has now come back here and seems to be interested in foreign policy. I was worried about this because he did not even find time to be present at the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which I very much regretted. However, his representation was excellent if you consider the possibilities given to her to present herself. But now to the consequences of what we will decide today. First of all, it is about the EU's reaction... [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Mrs Gredler, but you already know that the Minister was at the government meeting, and you know the Constitution that a State Secretary...!]] Excuse me, but I don't have as much time to talk as you do, so I have to say something. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: If you attack, you have to endure!]] It is about the Helms-Burton law and about the D ́Amato law. It is true that the European Union needs a means to respond to the WTO. There is an action that rests so long as Bill Clinton suspends and does not implement the third part of these acts. He has promised to do so until the end of his term of office – what happens then, we do not know. It's really strange – and I'm right for colleagues from the Freedom Party – to say that if you're one of Helms-Burton's injured, you're supposed to report. Until then I am d’accord, as this information should really be collected and used. But if someone who has been harmed by a law that has been passed in America, who does not report, is immediately subject to the fact that he really wants to gain competitive advantages, and therefore punishes this person with a maximum of one million schillings, I think that it is completely crazy from the European side. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Departing from any legal culture!]] I say: The Austrian Government can't do that, but that's the Commission's mentality, which can't really be understood at times. I think that this is practically not operational in Austria – I do not suppose that an Austrian company will ever be penalised by a million schillings – but I still believe that one should become active from the EU and make clear in response to these acts that such a procedure cannot be chosen. I'm actually missing activities. How are the farms actually being cleared up? Each holding shall be credited to: If you are affected by this or are in danger of being affected, please report immediately? – So I don’t know about which instruments You're informing which companies. Or do you always have to report when dealing with the US, whether it be direct or indirect? – I think it's very absurd. [[Congratulation of the Abg. May. Barmüller.]] The second thing I would like to address is the partnership agreements between the EU and Ukraine. I therefore have a real political problem, which could actually have been solved quite elegantly and diplomatically, if one had to dissociate this item from today's agenda, once again in the Committee, and the next time, that is, in October, would have been taken back on the agenda. In principle, I am in favour of such an agreement, which aims to promote - I read before - political dialogue, to stimulate the expansion of trade and investment, to secure the sustainable and environmentally sound development of the economy of the Parties and to strengthen democracy. (...) The respect for democratic principles, fundamental rights of international rights and human rights..." D'accord, we would also like to support this, but in this context I have a real problem, originally resulting from the decision of the G7 of Ukraine to provide 3.1 billion US dollars in order to close the Chernobyl nuclear power plant and find other ways of substituting the now missing energy. Studies have been carried out on this subject, namely studies paid by the Commission and the Agency for International Development, that is, by the USA. They said that the two nuclear power plants planned to replace Chernobyl were neither economically interesting nor environmentally friendly, and an destructive judgment was actually given on these two projects. What was Ukraine's reaction? – Ukraine threatened to let Chernobyl continue to work and thus not only endanger itself, but of course also all surrounding countries. We've experienced that. Austria was one of the main victims of this radioactive fallout. And what do you do now? – Now it is clearly accepted, yes it must be accepted, because pressure from Ukraine is being exerted to grant or co-finance two nuclear power plants – Rovno and Chmelnitsky – which correspond to the same type as the nuclear power plant 50 kilometres from Vienna, which we are trying to prevent, namely Mochovce. And the interesting thing is: In the case of Mochovce, we are all against the fact that massive efforts have been made to prevent the flow of funds that should be made available for the establishment. Now at Ukraine, it looks completely different! I received a letter from the then Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany in 1996 because I was already concerned about it. ==References== In April 1996, I asked him to intervene in the EBRD to ensure that these funds were not released. The Chancellor of the Federal Republic has said that he will make himself known. He's got me on the 4th. In June 1996, more than a year ago, the Austrian representatives in this institution replied strongly to the principles of Austrian nuclear power stations policy. This means, however, that financing for the closure or conversion of nuclear power plants or installations under construction would be advocating the construction, extension of such plants or the financing of measures to extend their service life. . So there was a clear response from Mr. Federal Chancellor Vranckky in 1996. My aim was to put the Ukrainians in the window and say: If you want a partnership agreement to finance projects with European money, you must note that our principles of economic and environmental compatibility with energy policy are respected. However, even after long discussions within the coalition parties, there was no way to express this truly mildest form of protest that a parliament can articulate. I would like more European Parliaments to take such a course, but this mild protest was also made impossible in Austria. This is also the only reason why I am against this agreement and why I will finally reject it: not because I am against the principle of an agreement, not because I am against the content, but because I do not want to be blackmailed, because I do not want nuclear power plants to be put there, where they are all endangering us, and that the preparation of nuclear energy is extended, so that the next generation also has to live with the consequences.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e10449	The next speaker is Mr Arbitrator. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e10470	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I also believe that the debate on these points and their summary will give us the opportunity to deal with general lines of foreign policy in a way that is practically exemplary. In this context, such a case is certainly the question of America: How do you behave against a superpower, and how has a superpower to behave? I do not want to say that, in this context, I am quite obliged to offer some of what Mr Stadler has said. For even I don't think it can be so that the strong or the super strong says he alone is the most powerful. Even if one is so strong, he must be careful to ensure that this is transferred from a system of personal strength to a strong rule of law in the international field. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This is not an anti-Americanism – we are friendly in this country – but I would like to express the obligation that, if one is so strong alone, he can accomplish something he has to use this strength in such a way that he himself puts himself on democratic, legal shackles. And so I agree that the agreement in question is, of course, only an aid to victims of international violations and does not yet combat the breach of justice itself. However, this too must be combated, and I hope that the Austrian attitude at the forthcoming UN General Assembly – which is one of the places where you can discuss such a thing – will be sufficiently clear. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Help With Punishment?]] I believe that we can certainly talk about the question you see as a threat of punishment. But you're right: It's just a border to help. The illegal content of the measure remains – whether the deadline has expired or not. These templates refer not only to the question of the strongest, but also to the question of the former strong. These proposals also deal with how to deal with Russia, Ukraine and other countries. Do you have to give them the feeling that you were once the strong one to be the world power? - Certainly not! Do they have to be treated so badly that they feel every day, in every measure, that they no longer belong to the very strong? – That would be just as wrong and just as not targeting for the West. Do you have to keep them outside, as some say, and wait for them to fulfill everything to be able to participate in some things – I am not a follower of this line – or is it the right thing to find a certain system here with this Treaty, as in the Council of Europe, as well? They themselves have to perform and promise some things, then they can be taken in, which in turn means that there will be changes. Is this process of conditional, partial or gradual taking in with the pressure to make further changes – not just the expectation of our own, but the active input and push and help out – not a better way to create changes than just to stand still and wait for it? It is legitimate to discuss which way the better is. However, I believe that the chosen path, as Mr Spindelegger has said here, is to give some things and thereby maintain the right to expect more in the future, which is a better way for international development. I also agree with what has been said on the issue of Easter enlargement. Some of our country's concerns about Easter enlargement are, in fact, concerns arising from experiences of a state which is an advance to enlargement itself. And some of the arguments put forward by the population, including institutions, against the enlargement of the East, is actually an argument against the current state and would tend to be eliminated rather by enlargement and membership. Of course, what my colleague Spindelegger said is also right: You can't play double. It is not possible to be in contrast to it abroad for Easter enlargement and domestic expansion. Such a foreign policy can no longer afford a state today, it must be spoken with a tongue! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: Just like you do at NATO!]] All those who believe that there are little internal political soups to cook will and will have to be mistaken if you draw reasonable lessons from history in this country! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I believe that the EU points... [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: How is NATO? Where is the joint tongue at NATO?]] Mr Bauer! You're so loud that you can't be heard anymore! In addition to many points, the question of the EU in detail and the public in this context is also asked about how the preparations in Austria are for the EU Presidency. In some newspapers it has just been read in recent days that the preparations for the EU Presidency in Austria are not sufficient. I would therefore like to say here before the plenary that all the political groups of the House have been informed by the Secretary of State on behalf of the Minister of State on the technical and organizational preparatory work for the Austrian Presidency and that we have here in the House have been given the impression that these preparations are good, that Austria is well prepared for the Presidency. As far as the preparation of the matter is concerned, there is a point to be discussed, namely when the debate with Parliament will take place with Members on the subject-matter preparation of the Austrian Presidency. We MEPs have raised this question at the Ambassadors' Conference. We have been told by the Secretary-General that, although this is already being prepared in the foreign office, it is common practice that this should be done to the public just before the Presidency is taken over. This may be true, but it would have failed, especially if this Parliament had a constitutional right of co-determination in EU matters, to make this consensus with Parliament earlier. It is not a question of checking whether the substantive work is taking place – I do not want to doubt this at all – but rather of ensuring that, just before the Presidency or during the Presidency, if this has become an EU project and if the Constitutional Treaty is taken and the EU's main committee is allowed to agree, the government does not experience any surprises that would be twice embarrassing if Austria is currently in the chair. So it would have failed to resolve these questions before the Foreign Policy Council, political groups and the Cetera. Thus, the content of things that are planned and the content that can come to us would be given some initial agreement. This would be important for Austria to be able to handle this presidency with a voice, with a closed attitude and as positive as possible for our country and the EU. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e10561	The next speaker is Mr Anschober. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e10582	Mrs. State Secretary! Minister! Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! On a fundamental point, I would like to give honourable Members the right to say that such a debate is an opportunity to discuss, in principle, foreign policy and the conduct of Austria, although in some respects we draw different conclusions from these occasions. But this is quite legitimate if this happens in an acceptable discussion culture, and this is obviously the case here today in this discussion. First of all, I would like to say a few words on the issue of Easter enlargement. I can certainly follow what Mr Schieder has said, and I also see this as an intact opportunity, also as regards environmental, economic and social issues. I also think it is not legitimate – legitimate is any political non-violent action – to use different lines of reasoning in the domestic and foreign countries, at least not fair and not serious, and to try to do so with fears, fears, fears, fears about which one has to talk about the elimination of which one has to talk about making small political money. Now, specifically, to the first point, which is discussed here: It is not often the case, but on this point I must give my full support to Mr Stadler: I also consider this very, very soft Austrian approach, as Mr Schieder has already described it, to be unacceptable with an actual violation of international law – and this is not acceptable except for any discussion. I too share the view that this is absolutely not about the question of human rights in the USA, and this is also so formulated and very clearly recognizable: This is exclusively about political and economic spheres of interest and their clarification. If we were to hold a human rights debate in this case, the debate would be completely different, and we would probably agree in this House in the essential details. But this is not the case. It is not possible to answer a breach of international law by trying to create some rehabilitation for the potential victims. [[Abg. Arbitrators: This is also important!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: You still punish the victims!]] This is also possible, that is right, but I do not consider it to be a serious and politically acceptable way of dealing, because that does school, and the question arises whether this protection of victims and this rehabilitation in the area of potential victims are actually guaranteed. In the final effect, they legitimise the breach of international law, and they bow to violence. This is unacceptable, and I think it is completely wrong that this is carried and supported by de facto. Secondly, I can fully agree with Mrs Gredler on the question of neighbourhood agreements with Ukraine. The non-serious presentation of the Austrian line concerning Chernobyl, Rowno and Chmelnizkij has already been presented by Mrs Gredler. We have been discussing this for six years – and this is not a simple undertaking either, I am glad that there is a common position on this, even in Austrian history it has not always been a matter of course – the handling of potential dangers due to border reactors. Whether the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Slovenia or in this case Ukraine is indifferent. A phenomenon is that the same reaction is always being made. The instrument of the motion for a resolution, in which we formulate our basic positions, is perhaps a calming instrument within the political framework, diplomatically speaking it is a completely inadequate one. There is pressure made, since every single option in the final effect is used to make pressure to prevent a ongoing threat such as the further operation of Chernobyl and a completion of the 1 000 megawatt reactors in Rowno and Chmelnizkij. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This opportunity will be given. I personally do not understand that one has not realized this small opportunity – many small steps are a right way. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The next point, then to what Mr Schieder said at the outset, is that this debate on cases of copies opens up the opportunity to discuss the general line in the field of foreign policy. A point that is very, very close to my heart and that is very up-to-date: Austria signed the transit agreement with the European Union in 1993 and I believe that it is necessary to discuss what has become of it here and today in this very general foreign policy debate. In the current situation, danger is in delay, because there is indeed a huge danger that this transit contract with 1. January 1998 de facto will come to an end because the implementation of ecopoints can no longer be achieved because the contractually fixed electronic debit system cannot be implemented. All of you, ladies and gentlemen, have publicly debated the question of legitimacy of awarding the contract to Kapsch. Some have even very intensively addressed them. Mrs Rauch-Kallat is with us today. I think this thematicisation is completely legitimate, and these are open issues that need to be clarified. At the same time, however, the situation is that 90 to 95 percent of the construction work has been completed and that Kapsch – and that is a correct statement, we have checked – has publicly stated that if this construction stop does not last until 1. It is not possible to establish the necessary facilities for electronic debiting until the end of the year. That would mean: completely free, unhindered transit through Austria. [[Abg. DDr. Declare: You know exactly that this is not true! This is the untruth! This is the untruth!]] And I would expect from the Tyrolean Members, like you are, Mr Niederweiser, that they, together with all the other parties, are really putting pressure on us here and asking the Federal Government to stop this danger in a delay, that there is a package of measures so that electronic debits from 1. January is feasible and realized. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] [[Abg. DDr. Deweiser: But we don't need you to do that! Just because you have country elections! You only want to come to the "ZiB" for the country elections!]] This is the crucial point, Mr Niederweiser. It cannot be in the interest of a Tyrolean Member of Parliament, but it cannot be in the interest of the Federal Government that it should be the first time. January 1998 de facto no valid transit contract, no more quantitative restrictions on transit traffic. You know exactly what that would mean. This would mean a completely unlimited, free transit traffic for the main transport and transit routes through Austria, through Tyrol, through Salzburg, through Upper Austria. [[Abg. DDr. Lo! this is the untruth. This is the untruth!]] . Mr President, Mr Niederwieser, you will hear your interlocutors and you will be treated accordingly. We have today tabled a motion for a resolution calling for a package of measures by the Federal Government to avoid these transit duties as a result of delayed installation of electronic ecopoints control. I would like to call on you – and tomorrow we will have an opportunity to discuss this request in detail – to press with us towards the Federal Government so that a complete Fiasco does not enter into Austrian transit policy. This is our responsibility to the many, many thousands of people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e10687	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e10708	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me to address a number of questions or speeches. The first and certainly one of the most important issues at all is, of course, the question of Austria's preparation for the EU Presidency. I would like to give my opinion on this. There are things that I automatically call "commitment" to the respective Presidency, and that depends on what will be in the months before or in the months after that. Therefore, the concept of the Troika is not unreasonable either. For this longer-term planning – that can already be said now – the content preparations are very good. At the beginning of the year, I made a special seminar with the Germans who will lead the presidency after us, in order to coordinate these successive presidencies well. I have waited for the British elections to take place, and immediately thereafter I agreed with the new colleague Robin Cook that we will hold our own meeting in London at the beginning of September, and that took place last week. This has brought a very encouraging and, from the Austrian point of view, absolutely satisfactory result. We have Kongruenz in our goals. In the first half of the jobs, environment, security and security for citizens, the British want to clearly address the issue of completion of the internal market. I told him he couldn't have better described our own ideas and our own content. There is therefore a very natural and content very well coordinated British-Austrian position. The British have also offered us to include a representative of the Austrian Ministry of Foreign Affairs in their presidency. We will therefore be able to prepare this question completely infractionless and well. The second thing you can hardly plan is the things that simply arise spontaneously. I say quite frankly that there will, of course, be some very exciting times in the common foreign and security policy. I expect the peace process in the Middle East to achieve a certain dynamic next year, I hope, anyway. We have discussed both with the British and with the Germans that we, as the countries which are particularly interested in this peace operation, really want to act offensively in this respect, of course in coordination and coordination with the United States, but in the sense of an independent Austrian role in this region. Then you must not overlook that date 1. In July 1998, the mandate for the SFOR in Bosnia-Herzegovina could be a very dramatic date. Cook and I have reached full agreement that we would see it as a disaster, the Community of States would withdraw in this difficult situation. We have now seen in the Bosnian municipal elections how important it was not only to have the presence there, but to increase the presence for this delicate choice from 33,000 to 38 000 men, so that relatively fair and free elections could be guaranteed in the context of the possibilities. But to believe that all these conflicts in the few months to the 1st. In July 1998, there will be an end to peaceful living together, a multicultural society in the truest sense of the word, which I think is a dangerous illusion. These questions are difficult to plan and need to be well prepared. And, of course, there can also be a number of other things, such as the Cyprus negotiations, which will also be very important in the area of enlargement, Ukraine – I am still talking about it – or conflicts in the field of the successor states of the former Soviet Union, namely Tajikistan, conflicts in the Caucasus area. All of this is difficult to plan, but should be well prepared now so that you can react to it without problems. We presented ourselves with independent initiatives. In particular, we want education as a location quality for the 21st century. In particular, I believe that Europe can do a great deal in this regard: through exchange programmes, through coordination, through best practice models and the exchange of the best experiences of the various European countries. This area is perhaps the softest, because we can do something in-house, of course in-ministerially well-coordinated, pre-work and further development. It must be said quite frankly that the Presidency can be hard to bind, that is impossible, but we can of course inform fully and openly and honestly, because we have every interest in the fact that Austria's position as a Presidency in the European Union remains out of dispute as far as possible and can be based on broad, sound support. We will have about 1 000 dates, 200 Council working groups under our presidency, 11 informal Councils, and if I count all the bilateral dates that we have with Russia, with the transatlantic dialogue, with the Rio Group and so on, I will come to about 40 ministerial dates again. In the UN week alone – I am at the United Nations in New York next week and will also be very active in the light of this preparation – about one hundred different high-level talks are planned. I say this, in order to see about what remarkable quantitative – I am not talking about the quality – challenge that is. I would like to thank, above all, my State Secretary, who was rightly praised by the liberal speaker, because she is really very professional and excellently independent – and that is, among other things, her area of responsibility in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs – preparing this question. However, I would also like to thank the interministerial working groups in the Federal Chancellery, where a number of highly qualified employees contribute to this preparation, but also in the other departments, in the Ministry of Finance, in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and in the Ministry of Agriculture, in the Ministry of Social Affairs, very much for this smooth cooperation. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Let me also say a few words about enlargement. This will continue to concern us very much in terms of content. But I am also concerned about a political value which is very important to me personally. It is quite clear to me that enlargement negotiations with the Central and Eastern European countries are not comparable to the accession of Austria, Sweden or Finland, which is not comparable to the accession of the United Kingdom, Portugal, Ireland or Denmark, but we are thinking of Spain or Greece, where there have been considerable difficulties at the time. And I would like to point out that, so far, in the history of the Union, which has increased from six to 15 members, any enlargement has been a political, economic and European success, and this should not be kept silent. These were countries, such as Spain or Greece, which have just escaped a dictatorship or a very authoritarian regime, which have not yet been economically established at the level of the other developed European countries, and yet it was possible to make this enlargement a real success. And so our ambition must be: We must not deny that these are difficult negotiations, but we must go openly into these negotiations and say, yes, this enlargement is indispensable, because the greatest risk for us would be if these countries were to fall back in plan economy or even communism or whatever. This would be the far greater risk for us economically, politically, socially and socially, than for a reasonable, careful and tolerant round of enlargement. And I would like to put this thesis at the beginning of the enlargement negotiations. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Second point: Ukraine. It has been rightly mentioned that Ukraine – I can only sign all of this – has not been sufficiently committed to the economic transformation process, the reform process has not been conducted quickly enough and the human rights situation is not satisfactory that the internal interplay – whether free press, interplay government/parliament, interplay of the ethnic groups or whatever – is not optimal. But – now the But – many of these difficulties are also related to the fact that Ukraine has not been independent for decades, that much is being hindered in the transition, and some of them are extremely difficult. It is a country with 52 million people, 12 to 13 million native Russians who, in part, cannot speak Ukrainian, do not want to learn to speak, there is a situation in which the Ancient regime is still strong, and the President and his government may have made many mistakes, but of course they have also been severely hampered by the old structures. All of this is also mentioned here and should not be forgotten in a fair assessment of Ukraine. Ukraine today has essentially two strategic options: Either they are clearly forward-looking towards Europe, which means association agreements, partnership agreements, progressive structural reforms on the way to the market economy, democracy, the development of human rights, or there is a return. And do not underestimate the drama that is given today in the inner Ukrainian situation! The elections are held in the spring of 1998. No human can say today whether it will not come to a retreat of the entire Ukraine. I therefore believe that it must be our interest to strengthen alternative 1 in Ukraine. This means that we are wisely advised to act like the other twelve old Member States of the Union, which have long ratified this Partnership Agreement. Only the three new ones, the Sweden, the Finns and we, have to complete an additional protocol – a country, I believe, the Sweden, has already done it, only the Finns and we are still hanging a little behind – and it would be quite unwise, for example, with a signal of shifting actually we would be advocating those forces that do not want a pro-European turn of Ukraine, a more human rights, a more pluralism or ecology. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Mr Heindl, you see this clearly different!]] A few more sentences to Chernobyl. In my discussions last week, of course, I made clear all these issues – complaints from Austrian entrepreneurs about some really incredible inequality, just pushing out necessary decisions, an adventurous rounds of the city of Kiev, for example, and the state authorities towards owners or investors from Austria. I have also expressed massively the Austrian position on the closure of the Chernobyl nuclear power plant. No question at all! This is a common position for all democrats and all Austrians. Only the answer – that was not to be kept silent here either – was: Friends, Ukraine hasn't built Chernobyl. This is a legacy of the Soviet Union. We have not chosen this still radiant sarcophagus. We're the victims. 15 billion dollars is the damage the Ukraine has to pay. And that with all the necessary reforms and a fall in their gross domestic product to 40 percent of the level compared to the time when it was still in the old Soviet state association! Every year, it has to pay a billion dollars in long-term damages and in part for measures that are urgently needed. The Community of States – including the G 7; I say this quite openly here – has made general decisions, but money has not yet flown. That is why I think the position of Austria is quite clear: We do not just want to block the closure of Chernobyl and not to block two new nuclear power plants – they know that in the Ukrainian government from the President quite exactly – we want to use other renewable energies, such as hydropower potentials that exist, or savings potentials that are still in place in the wasteful situation of the old Soviet energy deployment planning. Only then do we have to admit – we are not strong enough to be represented by ourselves at the G7 – that the position of the G-7 countries is, of course, diametrically opposed to what we want of Austrians and with us a small handful of other non-CFC countries. I am therefore saying: The signal we are sending today – also with the motion for a resolution that I fully support – is good. It is a clear signal towards democracy, market economic development, closure of Chernobyl with a reasonable ecological alternative. I am therefore really grateful that you have followed our argument that the shift would actually be more pleasant to the anti-reform forces than to the reform forces, which are certainly also present in Ukraine. Last point: I would like to thank Mr Spindelegger for mentioning the truly historic success achieved yesterday in Oslo with the anti-mine conference. I would like to stress here: This is really an Austrian success, and I can say it again - a common success. We have fought on this question, such as the lions, and in the end we have also won. That was not at all a matter of course. Those who remember a few months ago know that it has not been certain whether we can make the Oslo Conference a success and, for example, whether this agreement can be signed in Ottawa at the beginning of December. And I know, of course, that even today important players were not present or only as observers. For example, the Chinese, the Indians, the Pakistani, the Russians were only present as observers. Even two EU Member States were – unfortunately! – not represented as full members. The Americans – at least positively mentioned – took part in the conference, and there has been a very difficult and intense lobbying in recent days. The Americans took us very seriously, especially Austrians, because they also know exactly who the driving forces behind this anti-personnel mining treaty conference – these were the South Africans, the Canadians, us and certainly also the Norwegians – and there have been personal conversations, telephone calls until the last days at the highest level. I myself have telephoned with Madeleine Albright, who, of course, has also tried by all means to reach a delay. We have accepted this – 24 hours – with the request that the USA should make such compromise proposals that actually preserve the substance of the contract, including the Americans. Unfortunately, the forces in the Senate – I am speaking out quite openly here – have won over the reform efforts, especially those of Madeleine Albright, and in the end we could not bring the Americans on board. But after all, a great success: The Americans have publicly declared that they stand for an anti-personnel mine ban. They are willing to make additional proposals in the context of disarmament negotiations to bring in others who are not yet involved in the APM ban. And the game is not over yet. I am quite convinced that it will not take long until public opinion will turn out in the United States, and those forces that stand up for a total ban, including in America, in the American public. I would like to present here a touching scene, which is not from me, but which actually came from the participants and found its precipitation in the press organs. At the end of the conference, the NGOs, who have been fully involved in this conference, broke out in a loud cheer of joy, which I can very much understand, because it has not, of course, been possible to ban the around 100 million land mines that have been moved worldwide today, although we know that we will need billions of dollars, probably 200, 300 billion dollars, in order to really get rid of all these land mines within the next few years – that will take decades. At the end of the conference, NGOs have now scanned the three country names which have been primarily responsible for the arrival of this contract: These were the Norwegians, the South Africans as a conference presidium and we Austrians. This is said here to the Austrian Parliament and to the Austrian public, because it is precisely seen that the clear Austrian position, which has led first to a total legal ban on mines in Austria and to the destruction of the stocks that exist also in the Austrian Federal Government, is worth it. [[Congratulation with ÖVP and SPÖ]] I would like to thank, at this point, a diplomat who wrote and formulated this contract: It's Ambassador Dr. Hajnoczi. He was and is our Head of Delegation, he is the father of this contract, and I would also like to give him and his employees the rightful laurels at this point.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e10770	Mrs Dr Gredler has asked for an actual correction. Madam Member, please start by presenting the facts you want to correct.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e10794	Thank you very much, Mr President. I am reluctant to correct a minister, but he has said in relation to the Secretary of State: he has been praised by the Liberal Members for her work in the preparation of the Austrian EU Presidency, especially because she is responsible for it. [[Abg. Dr. Leiner: That's how it was!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: That's how it was explained!]] In fact, I have praised your Secretary of State for her work this week in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. In particular, I would like to thank them for the expertise they have in relation to Chile and to the Mercado Comun del Sur. I believe that it is not only this area of the world that it seems to be particularly interesting, but that there are probably emotional links. [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] I can only praise it for the presidency if I know what Austria is really going to do. I don't know anything except a logo.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e10881	The next speaker is Mrs Tichy-Schreder. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e10903	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Mrs. Dr. Gredler! I have already understood Mr Vice-Chancellor and Foreign Minister. He has praised the Secretary of State, because she is well-known, and in the same way attached to the praise you have given to the Foreign Policy Committee, that she is a very competent State Secretary, who understands something about matter very well, and that is where he is turning to the European Union, in the preparation of our Presidency. So I just want to say that I did not fully understand the actual correction, but I am pleased, Mrs Gredler, that you have at least repeated the praise, but you are not quite satisfied with what the Secretary of State is doing in the framework of the European Union. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Most important, they praise!]] We will certainly have the opportunity to talk about it on one of the next foreign policy committees, so that perhaps you will find the right way to do so. [[Abg. Dr Gredler: I'd be glad!]] I'm glad when opposition officers praise. Mrs. Dr. Gredler! However, I would like to correct you a little in one point, because I think there should be a misunderstanding regarding the Treaty that we have concluded with regard to third-country action - USA. You said in your comments: How can companies that deliver to the USA know about this contract? Only for understanding: This agreement is not about companies that deliver to the USA, it is about companies that deliver to Cuba. The problem facing us – Mr Mag. Stadler says that it is against international law; there can be different views... Mr Mag. [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is the order!]] Stadler, please let me continue! [[Abg. May. Stadler: I'm just quoting them!]] This is about: How do you protect yourself, or how do you act, if someone violates international law? We all know that as an individual state, we have the biggest problems. Thank God we are a member of the European Union, and the European Union is trying... [[Abg. May. Stadler: They don't defend themselves either! That's the problem!]] Mr Mag. Stadler, if you could listen, it would be nice. [[Abg. May. Stadler: The companies always defend themselves!]] I know this is always very difficult for you, but it would be nice if you could hear other arguments too, because in fact Parliament should be a stage to exchange views. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Call arguments!]] This is not possible, however, if you cannot even listen to thoughts to the end. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Mrs Collaborative! Let me have a call! I just want to stop you from staying in error!]] Mr Mag. Stadler! You don't know what I want to say, but I'm going to try to tell you before the time runs out. I would like to say the following: The problem that arises is that the European Union needs a hand-hold to companies to protect people in order to protect businesses in their area. That is why this has been done. Maybe a comparison to that. It is a very difficult comparison, but in Italy one has done the following: One has passed a law to take action against the Mafiabosses who make the kidnapping of children et cetera, where so far many things have passed in silence. A law has been passed in Italy that those who do not report this will also be punished. Because only if you have reports can you take action against right-wing breakers in Italy. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's where you know the right-winger! But what about America?]] In this way and I'm trying to explain to you why this was done. [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is a comparison!]] I would like to talk about something else, namely Ukraine. The Federal Minister has also referred to this, and we have also had a long debate in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Only we need to see – and I would advise every parliamentarian to go to these countries – and know what conditions these countries are taking up this restructuring process. I think we all here – Austria has a little more idea, one must say, than other countries in Europe, which are quite different – do not know or do not know much too much – especially the former Soviet Union was shot off the West for a very long time – which problems exist there in the individual countries, how many people, how many different people live together and how difficult they are. [[Abg. May. Stadler: (in the direction of the speaker) Mr Heindl! Federal Chamber of Commerce!]] It would be important if we were to deal with these problems as parliamentarians, then we would also understand why it is necessary to enter into discussions. There was a discussion once in Germany. At that time, the later Federal President Weizsäcker understood how to convince his party to join in talks with the East, with Russia, with the GDR. The most important thing is – and this is what all these agreements show – to enter into discussions, because only when I get into discussions with the representatives of other countries, get to know them can I convince them of our opinion and help them in the restructuring process – and also learn something from them. This also applies to South America. We are very pleased that South America is not only heading for the USA but also for Europe. There is also a wonderful economic development there, but in the human rights sector, development is not the way we imagine it. The only possibility is to enter into discussions, and I think this openness is showing these agreements. I would be pleased if we here in Parliament would have more discussions on this in order to achieve a better understanding of the cooperation of the individual countries.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e11080	I call Mr Scheibner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e11101	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The first speaker of the People's Party, Mr Spindelegger, once again dealt with the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats in his speech on foreign policy in a very detailed way, because he rightly does not think very much of the foreign policy of his group. But, Mr Spindelegger, you have put on the wrong record today, because today would have been creeds, friendly, early music to the liberals would have been announced today. Because this is the tactics of the People's Party: If you need the liberals, if it just becomes unpleasant, if from there, from the socialists or the Greens, a bit of a rougher wind comes, then you want the liberals to vote benevolently, you snuggle, you come here in the early morning and say: What are you doing? That's what you do anyway!, but then, when this storm comes back once again, when you've fallen over and done exactly what's required here, as with the mines you've been talking about, then you know nothing about the Suselei, the requests and the conversations, then you put on the club again, then you put on techno music again. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Once again they played the Wachchenmann!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: It would be best to keep quiet!]] Mr Spindelegger! Today it would have been fun to say that spring music would have been popular today, because today there is something unpleasant – and today there has already been the singing and the crying again, colleague Spindelegger. But as you imagine it, it will not happen: that you are always trying internally to instrumentalize us for your purposes, but then, if you believe, it is once again important to cast something down on the liberals. Their "lightly" statements in the Committee on Foreign Affairs on your now negative NATO held were also appropriate. If you were such a good European politician, you would still be sitting in the European Parliament. So there's something wrong with that, Mr Spindelegger. On your allegation of dangerous foreign policy: What is the purpose of a right foreign policy? – The purpose of a right foreign policy should be to represent Austria and its citizens and the interests of its citizens vis-à-vis abroad and abroad. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The purpose is not to pre-organise all that you are doing in advance of obedience, which may be required by us once from abroad and from the lobbies abroad. You are already doing so in Europe's policy, without If and But into the EU, you are taking over without If and But the euro and are now without If and But for Easter enlargement. Mr Schwarzenberger will be "rejoicing" if you take the agricultural structures of the Eastern European countries into this European Union without the absence of If and But, although you know exactly that there are no different conditions for different criteria there, but that everything is treated equally in the EU. - Wonderful! I am pleased for your farmers and your farmers when this is implemented, Mr Spindelegger. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Spindelegger.]] We have now had this in the agreement with Ukraine. We have heard from the Committee that it has also been Austrian companies in Ukraine who are suffering from the pressure of the state and who need help. There is no way to say that these are relics from Communism, because this is the daily policy of this regime, which exerts pressure on businesses, on Austrian citizens. Mr Spindelegger! It would have been a concern for an active foreign policy which concerns the interests of Austria and the Austrian people, at least that one should send a signal here in Parliament, by taking this agreement from the agenda, that the Committee is not on it, and that the decision on it will be postponed at a later date. Maybe that can't do much, but that would have been a signal. We would also have shown to the Austrians who have waited for us to represent them and that we do not advance any lobbying in a progressive obedience and accept everything that happens there on our backs.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e11170	Mr Gusenbauer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e11198	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I am not going to get involved in the emotional take-up of the Scheibner/Spindelegger self-help group, but I am going to deal with the issues raised by Mr Stadler, among other things. The point is more serious. It is the behaviour of the USA in terms of the Helms-Burton laws and others, of course, a clear breach of international law. [[Call to the liberals:Bravo!]] Now the question is: How do you deal with this? – There are essentially two possibilities. One way is to take retortion measures and also to discriminate against American products or companies, or to go the second way and try to bring about a solution to this situation on negotiations with the USA. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Unfortunately, that didn't do anything!]] The European Union has opted for the second way. In April of this year there were talks and agreements with the USA. Mrs. State Secretary! But I am extremely skeptical, too, if I observe what has taken place since the agreement between the European Union and the United States of America in the United States, namely that under this agreement in the American Congress, the Foreign Policy Committee is already on the table again, which provides for a strengthening of those laws which have rightly been criticised by the European Union. It is therefore, of course, for us and for the European Union, already the question of how we deal with it. If we try to reach a solution on the way to negotiation with the Americans – the solution can be described as more or less good or bad – then the answer at the American House of Representatives is to go beyond what we have previously held to be criticised. I think you can't let that happen. I understand that our problem is that the demonocles sword of an alarming trade war always hangs in the air. I think we can see in various areas that industrial and economic centres are interfering in a way that is extremely problematic. Above all, through this highly selfish, nationalist policy operated by the USA, the principle of free world trade, which was once always represented by the USA, is undermined by another side. We thus come into a situation which is not at all a progress, but which re-enters protectionism through the back door – a protectionism that is no longer exclusively economic, but also political, to the difference from the past. In this context, the European Union is – quite frankly – required. If common foreign and security policy were to have a meaning, especially in the area in which a single state would never have the opportunity to take a stand against the United States; there the European Union must be called for. I think it is very good that we have a critical discussion here in Parliament on this matter today, because our members of the government should know what we, as Austrian parliamentarians, expect that they should now also try to implement in response to American measures in the European Union. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr Gredler.]] Second point: Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Vice-Chancellor referred to the issue of the enlargement of the European Union and I fully share the strategic objective of extending the European peace zone through continued enlargement. At the same time, however, I believe that we should prevent us from entering into certain contradictions both inside and outside; in the external sense, in so far as we are making friendly nostrils to many Eastern European countries and saying that enlargement is coming, but at the same time everyone knows that this enlargement will not come if fundamental reforms are not taking place within the European Union. We now have the example of France, Belgium and others who are very keen on institutional reform. Those who have read the Agenda 2000 know what important reforms in the area of the Structural Funds and the Agricultural Funds would be, according to the Commission. Everyone who has looked at it also knows what that will mean for individual interest groups. This means that without any fundamental changes to all the conflicts that exist within the European Union, enlargement of the East is not feasible. That is why, I believe, one should also signal to the Eastern European States the necessary realism as far as the length and intensity of the negotiations are concerned. The second is the inner situation. We should prevent a three-parting of positions on the topic of Easter enlargement depending on the field of activity. I very often have the impression that foreign politicians are skeptical of enlargement of the East, that economic policymakers are skeptical, and that social politicians are against it. For example, the debate on this issue is taking place. Of course, each of the three positions has something for itself. I believe that we should not go through the area on different tracks, but try to link the lines of argument. For many of the things that the social politicians say are true, namely that such an enlargement of the European Union has never taken place in relation to gross domestic product per capita and that enlargement for a frontier country like Austria and the new Member States is not comparable to the enlargement by Spain, Portugal and Greece. Secondly, Austria will be particularly affected and this will, in particular, mean massive challenges and changes for the entire border area. In my opinion, these concerns must be taken seriously and included in the negotiations and clearly signalled to the Eastern European partners as well: This has nothing to do with a political rejection, but it itself should also be involved in meeting the challenges that ultimately arise for the common and the whole of Europe. That is why I would argue that, with all the clarity of the objective of the foreign policy, we should try to bring the question of enlargement of the East to the level where integration with the other policy areas is also present, because ultimately people in this country and also the people in the candidate countries are affected. Let's say it quite openly: If we were to apply the European Union's environmental standards from today to tomorrow in the candidate countries, everyone could calculate what that would mean for industry there. That is, the same as the environmental standards in the East, of course, applies to the social standards in the West. I am in favour of having a single and clear line and not trying to get over certain difficulties with the twinkling of eyes, because I think the population is following this very precisely, very precise and quite rightly, because it will have an impact on future life in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Thirdly and last point: I think there has been little discussion in the framework of these agreements today, probably because it is relatively undisputed. These are the agreements with the South American states, i.e. the Mercado-del-Sur matters. This is important because it signals that, while Europe is increasingly globalising in a global economy, which is increasingly regionally integrated, it is not decoupling itself from this development, but, where there are regional cooperations, as in this area, trying to come into contact with and exchange with these structures, in order to signal an economically better "consumption" of Europe and, secondly, to be politically and economically present in areas that were once called the "internships" of others. This is a step towards the end of this Europe being what it is supposed to be, as a very powerful unity, which plays a crucial role not only in the world economy but also in world policy. Because this world needs a new balance. At present, world policy is not in balance, and that is unhealthy. That is why Europe has this responsibility. I very much welcome the fact that the Secretary of State has visited the countries concerned and, as I hear, has completed a very successful stay. This also shows that Austria and the Austrian foreign policy do not seem to be making an active contribution in this respect. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e11261	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Barmüller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e11282	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, Mr Tichy-Schreder, who meant that Member Gredler had misrepresented the Helms-Burton Act. – I would like to reject this in so far as Martina Gredler has made it clear that if companies deliver to Cuba goods, they will have difficulties with the US if they want to trade with the USA. Of course, the Americans can only put pressure on companies when it comes to company deliveries on their own state territory. This is the context on which we are dealing, and this is what Mrs Martina Gredler has correctly described. It's not nice to do from the speaker's desk in the afternoon as if someone didn't do the right thing or maybe didn't understand it at all. However, in my speech, ladies and gentlemen, I am concerned that we should, in particular, consider the partnership agreement with Ukraine, also here in the House. The motivation presented by the Foreign Minister, the motivation to help, the enforcement of human rights, the establishment of the market economy in this area, is still undisputed, but one must also say that it is not only a friendly gift, but, of course, there are companies in Europe that have massive interests in putting their technology in Ukraine and selling it there. This, of course, concerns in particular those companies that have nuclear technology uses in their programme. That is why we believe from the Liberal Forum, which has already been cut down by other speakers, that this agreement has not taken sufficient account of the fact that we have, in fact, recently agreed to pursue an anti-atomic policy in foreign policy. When it comes to these partnership agreements, we should also make it clear that, for example, in Ukraine nuclear technology and nuclear power are being used intensively, and that it seems that, even under threat of the failure of Chernobyl, one is not prepared to change this attitude, although the necessary energy needed for economic development, such as energy efficiency measures or renewable energy sources, through combined heat and power, could also be put in place without creating a risk for other European countries. This is not taken into account in this Agreement. I think we have to put that out again. That is why I am not satisfied with the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Spindelegger, because I believe that the proposal remains behind what we decided as a five-party proposal before the summer. Ladies and gentlemen! Although the reason for this motion for a resolution mentions that the Austrian Federal Government should also call for a change to renewable energy sources in bilateral negotiations, which indirectly means that this is not contained in the Partnership Agreement, this is no longer the case in the concrete text of the motion for a resolution. It is no longer in the concrete text of the motion for a resolution, in other words, in what is finally the mandate to the Federal Government, that a switch to renewable energy sources should be made and that more energy efficiency measures should be taken, but only that there should be a rapid increase in the safety standards of Ukrainian nuclear power plants and, in particular, the closure of Chernobyl nuclear power station. Ladies and gentlemen! We agreed in a five-party proposal before the summer – you know that very intense discussions have preceded – that there should again be consensus within the framework of Austrian anti-atomic policy. I think it is wrong to decide on the proposal, as it is here, and therefore, in my view, to go back to what the five-party proposal has already set out before the summer. That is why I think it is right that we should refer this whole matter, item 5 of the Partnership Agreement, to the Committee again and then discuss it again with the inclusion of this motion for a resolution. However, I do not wish to hide from you, at the end of my speech, that there is also a differentiated opinion within the Liberal Group on whether it warrants the concrete point of nuclear use of nuclear power to reject the entire agreement. There will also be a different vote in this respect, but perhaps one could encounter this in so far as I assume that 'thinking' has also arisen in the other political groups, when one refers this matter back to the Committee and then, taking into account the resolution which has also been presented here, a fresh debate. Perhaps then a wider agreement is possible. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e11338	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Schwimmer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e11360	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Scheibner has squeaked out some crocodile tears because of the alleged lack of credit in Mr Spindelegger's speech to the liberals. What do you expect, colleague Scheibner? What do you expect when you hear your speeches, which I accept in the case of the liberals, are held against better knowledge? . Mr Gredler and Mr Anschober, I think that what has been represented here is a nativity. [[Abg. Scheibner: We don't expect anything from you!]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Nothing from you for a long time!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] But with you, I think it was against better knowledge. It is true that, in the case of the Helms-Burton Act, the protection of European and, of course, Austrian companies which are subject to American sanctions is required. But you are against making sure that you know who is affected at all. They know exactly what additional pressure can arise in Europe or in Austria, and especially in the knowledge of the American legal system, not to say that one is subject to the sanctions. As a result, even in the normal security policy, there is often nothing else to help but those who have been given the opportunity to inform the authorities of the fact that he is being extorted, otherwise he cannot be helped at all. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler]] If you do not report that you have been subject to these sanctions, you will be punished. This is probably a very small obligation, and this is necessary if the protection is to be actually given. As far as Ukraine and the other agreements with the former Soviet Union are concerned, you have also spoken against better knowledge. For example, Mr Scheibner knows exactly how successful this policy has been in the Council of Europe. If you want to make changes, you have to start the dialogue. In the case of Ukraine, the dialogue was started. Although the public in Ukraine is 80 percent for the death penalty, it has succeeded in initiating the legislation to abolish the death penalty because it is just the dialogue that is being conducted. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] There are obvious and obvious difficulties in Ukraine. I would like to say to Mrs Gredler: For 75 years Communism and belonging to the Soviet Union – five years of independence. Mrs Gredler believes that three weeks of shift is a rod in the window that brings about greater changes than the five years of independence after 75 years of Communism. There are difficulties for Austrian companies in Kiev; Mr Scheibner referred to this. Mr Scheibner! But this is the local administration of Kiev, which is opposed to the government and the President. You don't make them any more happy than if you make the government difficult. [[Abg. Scheibner: Why has Croatia been postponed in the Council of Europe? Tell me!]] It is important that the dialogue begins. What does the agreement mean? – create the framework for political dialogue so that we can influence the reduction of these difficulties. [[Abg. Scheibner:... the Austrians we have to represent, colleague Schwimmer! That's completely strange to you!]] This agreement provides opportunities and no legal claims with the Tacis programme of Ukraine. It is very likely that some measures will be taken. If, for example, Kiev City Administration is against the market economy and if Kiev City Administration is against the security of Austrian investment, we will ensure that the Tacis programme does not favour Kiev's urban administration but favours those who adhere to democratic and market-economy reforms. This can only happen if the agreement enters into force. What my previous speaker, Mr Barmüller, has just said, also shows that he has little idea of what this agreement really says. He has little idea, above all, of when the agreement was reached. Austria was not involved in this, nor could it be involved because the agreement was concluded before Austrian accession to the EU. You know very well that the agreement cannot be changed afterwards. You can join or not join. But: Under this agreement, under Tacis, only measures intended to lead to the conclusion of Chernobyl will be supported. Tacis alone provides 100 million ECU and another 400 million loans from Ukraine under the 1997 EU plan for the closure of Chernobyl. You want to delay that? You want to move that? I believe that both political dialogue and support for economic and democratic reforms in Ukraine and all measures to close Chernobyl should enter into force as soon as possible and should not be delayed and delayed.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e11452	Mr Dkfm is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Holger Bauer. Voluntary speaking time limit 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e11476	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today we have had the rather rare pleasure of experiencing that the speakers of the Austrian People's Party have taken a lead in trying to explain to the liberals the great wide world and how to move on diplomatic parquet – yes, yes, Mrs. Colleague – for example in the case of Ukraine. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Rosemarie Bauer]] Because you're so uplifting, Mrs. Bauer, I suppose... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] Why? Is that discriminatory, or what? [[Abg. Arbitrators: "quicking up" is not elegant, is not beautiful!]] Not elegant! Then yell! Excuse me, the word "screaming" isn't fine to a lady. Mrs Bauer! We have not done such slippers as your Foreign Minister and Vice-Chancellor so far on diplomatic parquet. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That is why we do not necessarily need your explanations about the great wide world and about diplomacy. In the specific case, it is an agreement on planned cooperation with Ukraine. Mrs Tichy-Schreder meant that we should go to this country once to see how it is going there and to know what it is all about. I don't know how many times you were there, Mrs. Tichy-Schreder – I was there once, I admit, very short, but someone else was there very often, he knows very well there. I don't know if he knows himself there like in his own west pocket, I don't know, but I do know very well. It is this Mr Heindl, Member of your coalition partner. It was he who decided very clearly in committee and very impressively explained how it was going about there. He has explained to us why we should not actually agree to this agreement. I suppose he's finally out of coalition, because you've been dreaming like this: That must be - I do not know why - the world is going down, we will be isolated, your pressure is bending, your pressure is bending, and together with the other colleagues of the Socialist Group, we have agreed to this agreement in committee. Mr Spindelegger, in his attempt to explain to us the great wide world of diplomacy, said that the FPÖ was known as an outsider and a no-sager. Mr Spindelegger! You may have escaped – that at times something is missing from you, probably the background to the fact that you are no longer sitting in the EU Parliament, that you have been withdrawn from there – that it... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rosemarie Bauer.]] As you call into the forest, it should go back, Mrs. Bauer! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It's the same! I have proposed to give a very quiet speech, but if Mr Spindelegger opens the discourse as he did, then he must not be surprised if he gets back a few things. Just give up and don't plug in, you can't do that – at least not with me and my group! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] He wouldn't have started. In itself, he is a sympathetic person, but he should have expressed himself a little differently. I can do what he can. We're not an isolated outsider. Mr Spindelegger said that five other EU Member States did not sign the actual agreement. So we're not alone. If we sign the Protocol of Accession today, this means that, because of our legal system – we have discussed this in detail in the Committee – we would also sign the actual agreement. That is, we are not alone, or we would not be alone, Mr Spindelegger, if we did the same as five other EU Member States. I assume they have thought the same as we Liberals and also Mr Heindl, who did not want to sign it. So it wouldn't be that bad. We liberals are not isolated outsiders when we see things like that. I'll tell you something. Nosages can often be very good and right, especially in the partner election, Mr Spindelegger! While you are throwing each other to the chest, according to the motto: "Who's taking me?", let us think exactly with whom we want to engage in economic and political cooperation. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Perhaps this is a neurosis of yours due to your constant loss of voter and confidence. There you get such a psychosis: Who takes me?, Who wants me? I'll take everyone and everything! - Not with us! High house! We therefore believe that this proposal should be referred back to the committee concerned. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would ask you to join this request.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e11577	The application just read has been properly submitted, duly supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Brix is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e11601	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Partnership and cooperation between the Member States of the European Union and Ukraine is a very important step towards improving the lives of people in that country, especially for young democracy. Mr Bauer! If you tell us about your trip here, I can tell you that there have been other Members of this House who have already traveled this country. And someone who has been very swissy and successful in the two days with friends and has praised a lot in this country was no other than the highly valued Member Haigermoser, who has maintained his contacts there and has found nothing there. This is also true; I also support the fact that you come into contact with the people there and you praise it here. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Brixi, come on!]] – I just wanted to mention this once so that you don’t always say, only what the government fractions say is bad, and the FPÖ has been chosen to separate the good from evil. [[Abg. Haigermoser: This speech is even under your dignity!]] I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that with your policy or at least with the views you have expressed here, you are very likely to drive this country into isolation. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You're talking into a vortex!]] Mr Vice-Chancellor first reported that only more than three or even more countries have been missing which have not yet signed this partnership agreement. [[Abg. Haigermoser: I also consumed a Ukrainian pigbread!]] - He'll probably have tasted you. But he also said that there are only two ways for these people: Either they return to the communist system, or they continue to be helped to form a democratic life form. But I do not hide here that there have been serious discussions in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy about whether we can agree with this without any reservations. Nor do I hide the report, colleague Dr. Heindl brought it to the committee, it was important, but he also said that the Vice-Chancellor presented two memorandi on his visit to Kiev and said that the Austrian companies – explicitly two cases – must be protected. It has been promised by the public authorities that this will also occur. And it was not the state authorities, but it was primarily the local administration of Kiev, which one must take into account and change something. Another chapter, ladies and gentlemen, of course are nuclear power plants, is of course Chernobyl. I may be familiar with much more than anyone else, or just like anyone else, because not only is Austria a non-nuclear power country, but we must try to create a non-nuclear Europe. I'll bet you, and I'll confess. Yeah, I'm afraid of Chernobyl. But I am not only afraid of the Ukrainian power plants, but also afraid of Mochovce, of Bohunice, of Temelin – all these power plants must also be gone. But we can't take the following path by saying: Now that this country needs the economic and necessary upturn, we are immediately turning away the energy from it. 42 percent of this energy in Ukraine still comes from nuclear power plants. The closure of Chernobyl would immediately lose 8 percent of this energy. People there must also be given the opportunity to create new sources of energy. And for example, we still lack the money of the G-7 countries and the EU states to complete the ones we do not want, but at the moment – and this can only be a momentary solution – secure power plants to be rebuilt in Chmelnizkij and Rowno. But that can only be an intermediate step, Mrs Gredler! Yes, this can only be an intermediate step, because the next step must be to: environmentally friendly power plants to protect people in Europe. This must be part of our policy, and this is also part of the social-democratic policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We do not say goodbye to this, but we first and foremost confess to it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Therefore, we also need to think about why it comes to all of this. – Because Ukraine is the main supplier of energy from Russia, because it derives energy from Russia in the form of gas and oil, and thus Ukraine is put into dependence. If we do not sign this partnership agreement now, it would only be a good thing if we were to push it further into Russia's dependence policy. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I agree to submit a motion for a resolution. This motion for a resolution is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is a right way if the Austrian Federal Government adopts a vehement attitude of this young Republic. For one must also say who may not have read it: Ukraine was one of those countries that were immediately ready to deliver their nuclear weapons. This was a very important step in this Europe, a very important step in the peace we want. We must also thank Ukraine for taking this step. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In conclusion, I would like to ask the question: Is it right to reach out to people there and help them create a proper policy in Europe, in our Europe, or is it more appropriate to drive these people into isolation? – I believe that from the point of view of my democratic consciousness, it is more appropriate to help people build a democracy. That is why I would ask you to give your assent to this motion for a resolution today.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e11730	The motion for a resolution which has just been read has also been properly tabled, is supported accordingly and is therefore under negotiation. The next speech is before Mrs Petrovic. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e11754	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The reports on various agreements of the Republic of Austria with other States or between the European Union and other countries have given rise to a somewhat more general foreign policy debate. I found it very remarkable and also welcome that in the centre of the remarks on the international field, i.e. the non-European field, the topic of nuclear power was addressed here, and that the necessary assistance to the reform states, but also to other states, to get out of this life-threatening, murderous technology, and an important human rights issue: the afforestation of life-threatening weapons, of weapons that damage, in particular, the civilian population, of mines. Foreign Minister! The following points are very clear from your remarks: Even if not the most powerful, not the largest, not the richest states in the world are pursuing a subject with great emphasis, such as the prohibition of anti-personnel mines, it is possible to achieve success through persistent, tough negotiations, through ever new advances. There were members of the Austrian Federal Government, there were also a number of Members from different political groups in this House who did not tire of taking one lead after another. And if you mention the efforts of South Africa, Norway and Austria, this shows that the saying "Steter drops are hollowing the stone!" In fact, there is something for itself in the international field. In my view, Mr President, it is all the more sad and sadr that you have not mentioned at all the central issue of Austria's European foreign policy, that is our relationship with the European Union with regard to the protection of environmental standards, particularly in connection with transit traffic. Federal Minister! It seems as if you as Foreign Minister are very glad that you can say in connection with the transit agreement – and its centre is the ecopoints rule – that: At the time, it was the current German Chancellor climate that negotiated this, this area is now mainly located in the transport resort – what does this have to do with foreign policy? – Mr Federal Minister, a lot! At the last meeting of the Integration Council, we also had a debate on what Austria is now doing to effectively protect the Alpine region in order to support the efforts of Switzerland, which have already been much more successful, instead of falling behind and saying to Switzerland in the negotiations: They must not have privileges, they must not protect their Alpine area better. Federal Minister! What situation do we face now? – My colleague, Rudi On top of that, it has made it very clear: The ecopoints system, the heart and core of the transit contract, is threatened at the end of the year in its execution, i.e. in its existence. I ask you: What weight does this have in Austrian foreign policy? Has Do you emphatically defend these interests of the Austrian population? What have you done in this context? What is the importance of the protection of the Alpine area, the protection from an expansive, exuberant transit traffic? Is it as in today's foreign policy debate that this is not even worth mentioning to you? It seems that the Social Democratic Group, whose current Chancellors were leading the negotiations at the time, would also say goodbye to this issue. Mr Niederweiser! You have made yourself aware of intermediate calls before, but in your broadcast it is said literally: "If the control facilities were not to be completed in time,... something else would have to be remembered." – Mr Niederweiser! I ask you: Who can imagine? And where is that discussed? Does not the Austrian people have the right to learn what "one will think of it" in the context of a foreign policy debate? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Niederweiser! You write, you'll just have to control it in the country. I ask you: How do you want to do that? Above all: There is now a foreign policy obligation to change! How will Austria deal with this commitment? Then you'll say: We are sorry, we have complied with and have not complied with the award provisions – we do not know that either. I also take the press service of the Transport Unit from the fact that the Minister of Transport will go to the Constitutional Court. So this is about a few press releases, in which it is said that something will have to be remembered, and the other goes to the Constitutional Court. I'm asking you here today: Where do the interests of the Austrian population remain? Does it not have the right for the people to learn what you are going to think about and whether it will work in the context of a foreign policy debate on international and European issues, on human rights, on environmental protection? I can only be surprised that none of the Members from Tyrol have spoken and have anything to say about this. I do not know what foreign policy issues you are negotiating, it is certainly also necessary for Austria to prepare its Presidency, but, Minister of State, it seems to be not enough if preparations for diplomatic procedures and rituals as well as for the framework programme of this Presidency are limited to content. My question here and today is therefore: What do the representatives on the government bank say, what does the Foreign Minister say and what do the representatives of this House say about the threatening Fiasco that will hit the Austrian population? I think that a foreign policy debate should be concluded without you saying anything to the Austrian people about this threatening eclate, would really be an affront which the people in Tyrol, but also this House, really did not deserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e11821	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. A final word from the rapporteur does not take place, and we are therefore entering into the voting procedure. . I ask the honourable Members to take up their seats, and the staff to leave the transitions. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 703 of the Supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who vote in favour of this bill to be a sign of approval. – This is the majority. Accepted. We shall therefore come to the third reading immediately. I also ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to the draft law in third reading for a similar sign. – This is also the majority. I notice: The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Mr Oellinger! Why do you agree?]] We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the conclusion of the State Treaty, namely: Interregional framework agreement on cooperation between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the Mercado Comun del Sur and its participating States, of the other part, together with a joint declaration of approval in 705 of the Supplements. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – The approval shall be granted unanimously. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by the Committee on Foreign Policy, within the meaning of the Rules of Procedure. Paragraph 49 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act that the promulgation of this Agreement, together with the Joint Declaration, must be carried out in all authentic language versions by means of a requirement in the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. The request was accepted by a majority. We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the conclusion of the State Treaty, namely: Framework Agreements on cooperation to prepare a political and economic association between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Chile, of the other part, and the signing protocol and Joint Declarations, of the other part, to be approved in 706 of the Supplements. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is lucidity. The approval is thus granted unilaterally. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, within the meaning of the Rules of Procedure. Paragraph 49 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act that the promulgation of this Agreement, together with the signing protocol and joint declarations, must be carried out in all authentic language versions by the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – The vote will be taken by majority vote. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the honourable Member. Stadler, Dr. Gredler and Mag. Chamberlander, the State Treaty, namely: Protocol to the Agreement on Partnership and Cooperation between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and Ukraine, of the other part, including the Declaration, annexed to this Agreement on Partnership and Cooperation and the Final Act, to be referred back to the Foreign Policy Committee in 799 of the Supplements to the Committee's report. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is not the majority. This request is therefore rejected. That is why we are voting on the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the conclusion of the State Treaty, namely: Protocol to the Agreement on Partnership and Cooperation between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and Ukraine, of the other part, including the Declaration, annexed to this Agreement on Partnership and Cooperation and the Final Act, of the other part, to be approved in 799 of the Supplements. If you want to grant the permit, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. The request was accepted. We shall also proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr. Spindelegger, Dr. Heindl and Comrades on the report of the Committee on Foreign Policy on the Government template 799 of the Supplements, namely: Protocol to the Agreement on Partnership and Cooperation between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and Ukraine, of the other part, including the Agreement on Partnership and Cooperation annexed thereto, establishing a partnership between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and Ukraine, of the other part, and the Final Act (856 of the Supplements). Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority of votes. The request was accepted. (E 83.) We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution by the Committee on Foreign Policy within the meaning of the Rules of Procedure. Paragraph 49 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act that the procurement of the Protocol and the declaration must be carried out in all authentic language versions by the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority, therefore adopted. We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the conclusion of the State Treaty, namely: Protocol to the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement establishing a Partnership between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Russian Federation, of the other part, including the Declaration, which is annexed to this Agreement on Partnership and Cooperation and the Final Act, to be approved in 800 of the Supplements. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – The majority of the vote will be taken. The request was accepted. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution by the Committee on Foreign Policy, in accordance with its kind. Paragraph 49 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act that the procurement of the Protocol and the declaration must be carried out in all authentic language versions by the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the conclusion of the State Treaty, namely: Protocol to the Agreement on Partnership and Cooperation establishing a partnership between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Moldova, of the other part, including the Declaration, including the Agreement on Partnership and Cooperation annexed thereto and the Final Act, of the other part, to be approved in 801 of the Supplements. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. The request was accepted. Finally, we shall come to the vote on the request by the Committee on Foreign Policy in accordance with its kind. Paragraph 49 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act that the procurement of the Protocol and the declaration must be carried out in all authentic language versions by the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In the event of approval, I would ask for an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. The request was accepted. 8. Point report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government template (707 of the Supplements): Amendments to the Annex to the International Convention on the Arrangement of Whales, 1946 (853 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e11936	We shall now proceed to item 8 of the agenda. – Oral reporting does not take place. Mr Mentil is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). A voluntary time limit of 6 minutes is indicated. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e11960	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Allow me to begin by saying that you have dealt with the relevant committee at a very late stage with matter, but that has been explained and discussed by your Secretary of State. For my group, I would like to point out that we have been able to document and prove that we have been giving a clear line on this issue since 1990. We got her on the 20th. 4. In 1994 a motion for a resolution crowned, which can be clearly stated that this problem can only be solved with a temporary whaling stop. And that's not just what we say, but that's what all the experts and scientists tell you. All environmental organisations that are serious to take, who are committed to waltz protection, all people who have something left for animal protection who are moving this matter demand: Let the whales live! – You can read this in various media. Scientists and associations around the world have been working for years to prevent the eradication of these huge aquatic mammals. Of some whale species – the whales can become up to 30 meters long and 150 tons heavy – only a few hundred more are on the way – a few hundred, ladies and gentlemen! The whales were brutally slaughtered for decades: 2 million in 50 years! I would have almost said that the human being – "the mammal" – is able to slaughter 2 million whales in 50 years of age – mammals – out of greed for profit, and these profits are, as it seems, not to stop. The last agreements show that these protective measures do not work, and the so-called meetings of this whale Commission in 1994/95/96 have produced a lot of noise at last. After that, it was read in contributions that the world of whales in the Antarctic should be protected. Unfortunately, it is not protected; it has not succeeded. Hope for the world of whales? – Scientificly well-founded contributions show that this whaling commission is an alibi facility and should be questioned in its function. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Sea dogs, pig whales and cone seals are very endangered. – You can take documentation to the fore and you will see that the only result of this Commission is the so-called scientific whaling. The outcome of these meetings is that, under the title of "scientific whaling", the unwealth or the extermination campaign against the whales is continued. When one reads, one sees that "scientific whaling" goes even so far that one can carry out a quota calculation from one year to the other. That's very interesting. This scientific activity is culminating in the quota calculation. Someone has to explain to me how a scientific whaling works, which is based on a quota scheme. It would be very interesting to know how to do this. All of us who sit here know that only a temporary but immediate whaling ban can solve the problem. Unfortunately, we had to experience in the Committee that the members of the ÖVP had once again made a kneefall towards Brussels. The EU'sice of the ÖDP once again came to bear in a form that it was almost indecent. Col. Schwimmer has developed the logic: Rather an insatiable, "indecent" reform work, which does not threaten the existence of whales, but in the latter consequence does not guarantee the survival of whales. I do not understand, in fact, that an extra-believer must listen to a Christian democrat in his reflections and thoughts, and that one disregards creation in the form that one opposes the extermination of a species of animal, because it is demanded by Strasbourg. This is inexplicable and incomprehensible to me. In any case, on the part of our group, we will not support this modified, not real reform, that we continue to pursue our path, that is to say, a stop to whaling, which has become absolutely feasible and possible.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e12024	Next word: Mrs Jäger. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e12045	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The present government template contains provisions that lead to an intensification of the International Convention on the Control of Whales, which Mr Mentil did not mention here. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: He is obviously against the intensification!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: A sharper way of walking is being put in the government!]] In principle, it must be said that these protection provisions are urgently necessary because the survival of these sensitive, highly intelligent marine mammals can only be ensured if the killing of these animals is severely restricted. Of course, this is best done with a whaling stop. The new provisions provide for an absolute protection zone in the South-East and for a precise fixing of fishing quotas and time limits. Austria, which has been a member of the International Whaling Commission since 1994, has also been actively involved in this. Mr Mentil! You have not mentioned here that there are, and I believe this to be the main problem in whaling, massive economic interests. In particular, the international fishing fleets are strongly committed to continuing to catch whales. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: He said that too! He also spoke about the protection zone!]] These are the fishing fleets of Norway and Japan in particular. I would like to ask you, Mr Vice-Chancellor, whether it is diplomatically in all contacts with these even friends countries, to address this problem and to ask that these governments also comply with the international agreements. Despite the fascination that whales exert on humans, they are threatened in their survival. Of the previously existing 250 000 blue whales, only 1,000 are left, of which only one and a half million are Finn whales today only more than 20 000, and all large whale species are almost exterminated, and now the small whales and dolphins are threatened. Because I see many young listeners at the gallery, I would like to say: Millions of children and young people have made friendship with "flipper" and they expect us to do everything we can to protect these animals. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A major problem for the smaller whale species is also the 100 km long drift nets, the type of fishing and the technical devices. Hundreds of thousands of dolphins suffocate in these nets every year. In addition, the load on animals comes from the pollution of the seas and the destruction of their habitat by ozone hole and climate change. At this point I would also like to thank the environmental organizations, including the Greenpeace environmental organisation, who have really contributed a lot to the fact that we have become aware of this whole problem and that it has at all been a matter of concern to us on this subject. Ladies and gentlemen! The uniqueness and beauty of our planet Earth is guaranteed only by the diversity of life. Only a sustainable economy that deals with nature and the environment and natural resources will ensure the lives of people in the longer term. However, we need even more improved work in the international bodies. We also need better control of the laws that have been drawn up at international level. In view of globalisation, we are all invited to contribute more to ensuring that environmental regulations are respected at international level, that we protect all habitats – before the summer we discussed the topic of indigenous peoples – that we accept all these issues and not only leave them to the NGOs, that the Austrian Federal Government and also, as Members, we give these issues the importance they deserve. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to conclude with a quote from Sir Peter Scott, who said in 1986: If we can't save the whales, we can't save anything, including human species. Whales are a symbol of survival, perhaps a symbol of all preservation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e12121	Mr Dkfm is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). May. Mühlbachler. Please, honourable Member. He's not in the meeting room, so his speech fails. The next speech is by Mrs Klara Mottervor. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e12152	Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Although Austria as an interior is not directly affected by the problem of whaling, in 1994 we joined the International Convention on the Regulation of whaling in order to strengthen the Phalanx of whales. Because we know that the threat or extermination of various types of whales and the associated risk to the marine budget are not only directly affected by the coastal states, but that this also has a global impact, this must not be indifferent to us either. We should therefore continue to be interested in the fact that there is consensus within the framework of an international community for the protection of endangered species, such as whales. We know that there are always conflicts with lobbys out of economic interest, which unfortunately often come to the fore. In June of this year, for example, Norway was able to make a request for hunting release for the North-East Atlantic dwarf during the conference. This request was justified by so-called scientific requirements. Walfing is still carried out for scientific purposes in Japan. Our efforts must therefore go in the direction that the moratorium existing for commercial whaling must also be extended to the scientifically justified whaling. That's why I'm asking everyone for support. I do not actually understand the position of the liberals that they cannot agree to this law, although it is progressing and although we also have opportunities in this law and beyond to improve the situation for the whales. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Arguments of those states that continue to carry out excessive whaling also often affect the economic dependence of many people on the revenue from whale fishing. It should be noted that projects, such as the WWF's protection project for humpback whales in Japan, have shown that there are opportunities at the same time to protect whales and help people, even if there is a real will to comply with the Convention. Ladies and gentlemen! A major weakness of the Whaling Convention also concerns the right of individual Member States to: Subject to any changes to the plant, which does not bind that State to the amendment, as the whaling nation of Japan has done, thus further calling into question the sanctity of the Convention. If we Austrians are serious about the concern about the endangered species of whales – and I expect them to – it is our duty, in the context of bilateral and international relations, especially with Norway and Japan, to address this issue over and over again and to ensure that whaling, particularly for scientific reasons, is discontinued. Mr Vice-Chancellor and Foreign Minister! I would therefore ask you to continue to accept this subject in the future. Ladies and gentlemen! In the sense of further development, we would like to agree with the present government proposal. Ladies and gentlemen! I should also like to call on you, as an animal protection spokesman, to take this issue seriously and to continue working on the implementation of the Convention. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e12206	Mrs Ing. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Langthaler. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e12227	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Perhaps one of you can still remember the last discussion about the whaling commission in this House, because at that time a minor error occurred in the federal law paper. It was not "Walfangkommission" derived from "Wallen" but "Walfangkommission" with mute H in the Bundesgesetzblatt. Some Members, I think, can still well remember these misprints, probably colleague Mühlbachler, who is probably at election in Upper Austria and cannot speak to us here today, and possibly also colleague Mentil of the Freedom Party, whose appeal is to demand a whaling stop, I can only understand that he means a "stopping" – with "h" – for his party, because what he has said here in his speech is lacking any basis for content. [[Abg. Kiss: No!]] [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: On the contrary!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I cannot share the opinion of Mr Mentil, because what is being decided here today is a small step, but it is a step forward. They spoke, Mr Mentil, also of the environmental organizations in Norway. I was only a few months ago at a meeting of Norwegian environmental organisations, where also convinced environmentalists were present. These could explain to you exactly how many different species of whales there are and that the Commission must also deal with those whale species which are actually threatened by extinction and in which there must be no whaling at all. But there are undoubtedly also species of whales that are becoming a threat to other species, and if they are not to be hunted – in part targeted – then there is a misunderstanding that is no longer justified from an ecological point of view. This is not so easy, because there is – thank God! – also in the whales very many different species, and those whales that are actually threatened by extinction must, of course, be protected categorically, and this is to be improved by this international agreement. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Nothing else we say!]] No, you talked about a general whaling stop. There have been good documents for many years that explain what types of whale it is about. The colleague, Mother, has already mentioned it. It's all about the blue whales we all know well. The blue whales are rightly used by the environmental organisations as an example to show placardically what it is all about, namely, the protection of species. The fact that Austria is committed to it and agreed to it is gratifying. Ladies and gentlemen! However, I would like to point out that we are always very progressive in those problems that do not concern us. Austria does not have the problem of working accordingly in whale fishing, as do the two states of Norway or Japan, which earn a lot of money with whale fishing, and that is why we are very quick to protect species. I would be pleased if the colleague, Jäger, would also prevail where the issue of species conservation in Austria is concerned. From the red lists you can see that there are many endangered species in our country. But I do not recognise any initiative in this regard either at the ÖVP or at SPÖ. In this context, I would like to point out that, for many years now, the Greens have called for nature conservation to become a federal competence, that the Federation should have a principle competence for nature conservation. Finally, the implementation of the Washington Convention on Species is to be relocated from the Ministry of Economic Affairs to the Ministry of the Environment. This too is a long-standing demand from the Greens. It is completely absurd that the Convention on the Protection of Species is not being implemented in the Ministry of the Environment and is being pressured to do so. Ladies and gentlemen! There is a convention to preserve biodiversity. Even here I cannot say that Austria is particularly prominent. I would be pleased if the protection of species in one's own country would be a subject in which the government would be prepared to act in a similar way to that of this right international convention, but not concerning us. As far as we are concerned and Austria is concerned, it can be very easy to say: Yes, we are in favour, and we agree. It is important to remember that there are many endangered species in Austria, which must be dealt with first and foremost in this House, both in the debate and also in the presence of the Minister for the Environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e12294	Mr Vice-Chancellor is speaking on the floor. - Please, Mr. Vice-Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e12316	High plenary! I would, of course, like to join the speeches made by all the political groups. It is also the policy of the Federal Government to enforce an absolute prohibition on whaling. Today there is an intensification, and I think that is all right. I therefore invite all the Members who, as I believe, need a comprehensive and absolute ban on fishing, to agree to this amplification today, otherwise this signal would be strictly counterproductive, namely that we do not want the aggravation which, at least, provides for an absolute fishing zone with a ban. I don't think that's possible for the animal guards in particular. I would, however, like to announce something that has already been heard in the debates and which corresponds to a resolution adopted jointly by the National Council in July: The next meeting of the International Whaling Commission will take place at the end of October this year, and the Austrian delegation will, of course, work in accordance with the National Council's resolution to restrict scientifically justified whaling and to prevent, as far as possible, whaling in other areas of so-called indigenous people. This is particularly true with regard to Japan and Norway. I therefore believe that I fully agree with the resolution of the National Council.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e12348	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-Chancellor. The list of speakers is exhausted. The debate is closed. We are now entering the voting procedure. I would ask the honourable Members to take their place for this purpose. We shall first vote on the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs to give approval to the conclusion of the State Treaty in 707 of the Supplements. If you want to do this, I ask you for a sign of that kind. – The approval is granted by a majority. I now turn to the request made by the Committee on Foreign Policy, according to which the present State Treaty is in accordance with its nature. Paragraph 50 2 Federal Constitutional Act by passed laws to be complied with. In the event of approval, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. This request is therefore also adopted. 9. Point Report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government template (710 of the Supplements): Agreements between the Republic of Austria and the Preparatory Commission on the organisation of the Treaty on the comprehensive prohibition of nuclear testing on the Commission's seat and on Annexes and Exchange of Letters (854 of Supplements) 10. Point Report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government template (711 of the Supplements): Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Joint Vienna Institute on the head office of the Joint Vienna Institute and Annex (855 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e12422	We come to points 9 and 10 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. The report has been abandoned. The first speech is by Mr Dkfm. Bauer before. A free time limit of 6 minutes will be displayed. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e12452	High house! Austria intends to conclude two agreements on the headquarters of two international sub-organisations with the relevant documents. It is more or less self-evident – unfortunately one has to say: almost self-evidently – that there are generous privileges, tax freedom and immunity. If I say 'almost of course', then because I know – my group knows that too – that this is common in a certain framework – I emphasize: in a certain framework – international, worldwide. In Austria, however, exceptions are granted, privileges that are significant – significant! – at least once beyond what was originally granted to UNIDO at the actual Presidency agreement. I would like to give you a small sample of what there is so much that you are prepared to do, just as we liberals will not abstain from it elsewhere. There are smaller things – today you would say: Peanuts – but also more weighty things. There are duty-free shops for almost all the things and goods there are, not only for diplomats, but for all employees and also for the few Austrians employed there. So there are customs duties for all goods. Once again, all Austrians will be happy to buy a pack of cigarettes without customs duty. They will be very pleased that there is a group of fellow citizens or those living in Austria, including some Austrians who have the privilege of buying everything without customs duty. Secondly – admittedly Peanuts, but precisely these angry people are special, and I will tell you with pleasure – free and guarded parking at the airport Schwechat. Once again, all holidaymakers who cannot park there free of charge will be happy, which may be because it is too expensive for them to stop their car there for a week or 14 days, by bus to the airport. They will all be very happy about such things. Because everyone who works in the diplomatic service is well known to be paid "so bad", they must be paid the parking ticket there. Now a little more weighty: preferred access to the Austrian labour market, for the members of the diplomats and employees of these commissions. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: For the family!]] That's what I'm asking myself: Why? Why? [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Because we have so many jobs!]] Yes, because we have so many jobs. Whatever it may be. At least all the unemployed Austrians will be very pleased that the members of the diplomats, not the diplomats themselves, and all the employees there will be granted a preferred access to the labour market. You will be very pleased if, as I have already pointed out in the Committee, I say this in my constituency, which is a typical red constituency, namely Vienna Süd. Next point: One of these Conventions provides for the refund of sales tax already paid up until 1994. Again, all Austrians will be very happy, which you have not refunded taxes in the course of the last two load packages, but have also imposed. They will all be very happy about this. You will say: Yes, this is really a proper representation! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! There are still a lot of such things, but the light here is already lit up and I have to stop counting them. I already know what argument will come from the defenders of this privilege economy, this privilege stage. It's going to be called: Yes, this is the one side of the medal, we already admit, but you should know – and you also know – that if we do not grant these privileges, then do not admit that these international organizations do not belong to us! You must also bear in mind the return on the way, Mr Deputies. Foreign Minister! First of all, I would like to see such a rerouting profitability bill and second, to have a list of the privileges in which to what extent and in what form to which the seats are granted in order to have a comparison. I know that what is being co-imported is not true, namely, that this is the same and commonplace everywhere. It is true, rather, that we – and that is what I would like to tell you – with the granting of such privileges, of course, all those angers that do not benefit from it and those that, for the reasons I have mentioned to you, especially the Austrians, have to buy office seats which we are unable to acquire in negotiations on the diplomatic parquet due to the location attractiveness in the actual sense of the word. What we do not achieve at the diplomatic level on the negotiation path, we buy it in this way – to the annoyance of the Austrians. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] One last sentence: I know, for example, that there are no customs duties for diplomats employed there in New York and Geneva. That's all I know, and that's why I'd like a list about it. But I definitely know that. But we give them to them. I wonder, Why are we so generous? – Because you do not manage to bring these seats to Austria in a different way.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e12509	Mrs Dr Karlsson is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e12530	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! I am very surprised - but it has already been noted in the Committee - that a new form of unqualified detachment is being taken by the Freedom Party, namely the search for the third UN office and its establishment and the Hatz against the "stopped" diplomats. [[Intervocations and ironic hustle and bustle in the liberals]] [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: The outside of the left as a privilege defender for the little people!]] However, it is even more surprising that you are pursuing a provision which, in every discussion of the foreign policy report, may well be addressed by your group as a problem of employment for Austrians abroad. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: How can you approach what is in the law?]] Mr Bauer apparently did not even bother to read the agreement, otherwise he could not say that there is unlimited preferential access for the members of the employees of the international headquarters. Just the opposite is the case: In Annex 1 to an agreement and Annex 4 to the other agreement, it is precisely defined that the employment permit is granted in so far as employment is not to be included in a labour market sector or in a region where labour market service poses serious labour market problems. This means that it is precisely limited where competition with Austrian workers exists. You are truly indifferent and generate envy, and this must be clearly rejected, with all the sensitivity you might want to bring to these privileges. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As you probably know, Austria is in enormous competition with regard to the settlement of international institutions, and this is not just about diplomatic negotiations, but about conditions why international organisations should be established with us. Mr Bauer! They have also addressed the return on the way. My constituency, Vienna Innen/West, feels very well about this detour profitability. There, hotel rooms are filled outside the season. There restaurants can also make a shop outside the season. Soon the General Assembly of the International Atomic Energy Authority will begin. You can calculate exactly on Schilling and Groschen, which will come in for the city of Vienna next to the international prestige. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: Without these privileges...!]] No, but the organization. But now let's go on. You don't know what you're talking about. The duty-free shop "Commissary" has been part of the International Centre since the existence of the International Atomic Energy Commission in Vienna, that is, since the early 1960s. Now you can say: The other countries don't have such a thing! But the OECD in Paris, for example, has a similar business. This is very hidden in the deepest basement of this organization, but it exists. So here's to say: No, no, there is no such thing all over the world!, is simply due to uninformedness! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: In New York and Geneva!]] I do not say that we should fully extend these privileges, but we should not be horrified, we should not create envy, we should not incomprehensiblely approach and exaggerate it here. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You should be ashamed that you are committed to these privileges!]] On the other hand, you are making an institution here that we can be proud of, namely, the third seat of the UN, I am defending myself! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to point out another problem. There are also certain immunities associated with these offices. These concern the inviolability of the employees there, the inviolability of the apartments and the offices of the employees there, and for this we should, as I think, develop a very high sensitivity. This summer we experienced certain attacks on black Africans, who were arrested first and were only questioned after that. I hope that, in future, greater sensitivity as regards immunity as a whole, as regards the immunity of the person as regards the immunity of the seats and apartments, will also be borne by the Austrian executive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e12645	Mr Gredler. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e12666	Mr President. Foreign Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, I am very glad that we were able to win two new international organizations to settle in Vienna. In fact, I am glad that we are opposed to the attempts to starve UNIDO and, in some cases, to settle down. I am also pleased that we have been able to offer these people all the attractivities, including access to the labour market for members of the staff there, if there are a maximum of 35 people who are accredited, such as the Joint Vienna Institute. It can be assumed that a maximum of 35 to 50 members will ever want to do so. To treat these people in an adequate form, I do not think that they are objectionable. Holger Bauer! It is extremely difficult as a member of a diplomat to give up his profession and follow that person to another country. If one wants to take a little consideration and takes partnerships seriously, one should also allow partners affected by this, to settle in the country concerned and to prove themselves on the labour market, under the criteria of the labour market there. This does not mean that they should be preferred if they do not have qualifications, but, of course, they must have the qualifications required for the respective job. I think it's really cheap polemics when you attack these people. That's not your usual level, as I mean! As far as the CTBTO's organisation is concerned, I must say that this is a very interesting thing. ==References== In September 1996, a contract on a comprehensive ban on nuclear testing was signed. This is also the result of this organization, which is currently being led by a German. This is therefore an interesting thing because, as I believe, it can turn those countries that have nuclear weapons into a raison. I was a little disappointed when not too long ago the United States was allowed to carry out attempts that, in my view, were not allowed. But obviously I was wrong in assessing this situation. These were, as it were, bombs with limited effects, "small" bombs, so to speak, the extra – you're almost trying to say: for home use – have been developed. These bombs are not covered by the provisions of the Treaty, so you can test them. But I do not think it was the intention of the International Community that nuclear tests should be made with bombs that are "very small" and "very clean". What the international community wants, rather, is that all nuclear weapons disappear in this world. That is why I am glad that there is this organization and that it is located in Vienna, because perhaps we can really achieve what we really wanted, namely that bombs with limited radius, with a limited effect, are covered by this Treaty. We should make an extension of this ban, and thus achieve what we all want. Federal Minister! They have greatly praised Austria because we have become active in the fight against landmines, the anti-personnel mines. I agree. However, I believe that the huge success achieved in Oslo is due to the fact that so many countries have signed and are still signed because Princess Diana has been killed under unfortunate circumstances. In fact, public pressure has articulated the fact that there was a conservative government in the UK, where she was particularly involved, and where she was actually putting her person against the then government – I remember that there was still a conservative government in Britain at that time – and said that there had to be boundaries and that these weapons should not give it a sign. I believe that this has ultimately led to a breakthrough in the negotiations, and that was the real reason why this victory could be won – but in tragic circumstances. I would like to congratulate you on the excellent text of the contract by an Austrian diplomat. This shows that we actually have a very good tradition in diplomacy. It is a shame, however, Mr Federal Minister, that you obviously do not regard foreign policy as your heart's matter, but only as a necessary evil.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e12717	Mr Dkfm has made an actual correction. Holger Bauer reported. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e12745	High house! Mrs Martina Gredler, in her contribution to the debate, said that there was no privileged access to the labour market for the employees of the institutions in question, that they should prove themselves and apply under the same conditions and with the same qualifications as the Austrians. I am actually correcting as follows and quote Article 14 lit for this purpose. 1 and lit. k: The staff of the Institute enjoy the following privileges in and against the Republic of Austria: lit. k: the possibility of preferential access to the labour market for their spouses and dependants living in the same household.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e12782	Mr Dkfm is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Mühlbachler. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e12803	Mr President. Mr. Foreign Minister! I have been called as a speaker on the previous item on the agenda, and I would like to state that: I understand something of elections, of blue whales but less. That's why I didn't talk about it either. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Do you have the right talk with me?]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! What I notice during this debate is the following: From the outset, Member Bauer has tried to turn the debate in an incomprehensible direction. In fact, we Austrians are trying to actually get our reputation on such things into the negotiating formula. Now, however, the Freedom Party is trying to bring an envy debate – even with diplomatic staff – into play. It must not surprise us if sometime these organizations say: We can't go to Austria anymore, because there we are subject to constant hostilities. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] I do not understand why this debate is being held at all. – Apart from that, Mr Bauer, what you have done in your actual correction has basically failed, because it was no more and no less than what Mrs Karlsson or Mrs Gredler said earlier here at the speaker's desk, namely that access to the Austrian labour market is of course also possible for these people – with some reliefs with regard to foreigners' employment law. That's what it's all about. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Preferred!]] [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: The Minister of Finance has said that irregularities should be eliminated!]] Obviously, you always have to be afraid of fear and envy from the liberals – and nothing else! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] I am very glad that this organization will have its seat in Vienna, because, dear friends, one thing is clear: This is a general ban on nuclear testing, not only in the military, but also in the civil field, and that is why it is very interesting for us, because we are surrounded by countries producing nuclear power and therefore have easier access to nuclear tests. We are very interested in what is happening in the Czech Republic, for example. We are very interested – and in this respect we also have a responsibility to the population – what the consequences look like if the construction of the Temelin nuclear power station cannot be prevented. What happens in the Czech Republic? We already want appropriate controls. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meisinger.]] – It is not enough to respond to this call at least. Mr Meisinger, you are showing that you are not at all interested in the matter of self-helping the population. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That's why I'm saying: It is not about provoking envy or fear in this respect, but only about expressing thanks to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in particular Mr Vice-Kanzler Schüssel, for the fact that this organization in Austria is really taking a foothold.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e12899	Mr Vice-Chancellor is speaking on the floor. - Please, Mr. Vice-Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e12921	Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! As simple as obvious Holger Bauer believes that international organizations can be found in Vienna, namely with privileges or additional material promises, it is not. By the way, I should like to point out that most of the contributions... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] Can I argue? Normally, first of all, before the concrete negotiations have taken place, how high really rent, investment costs and so on are the hardest political lobbying. Austria – and this is a real merit from previous years and decades, starting with Josef Klaus, later, of course, Bruno Kreisky, up to the present time – has been one of the very large global locations of international organisations, as the only location within the European Union for the UN and one of the four locations worldwide. This was only possible because Austria is a hospitable country because we offer comparable conditions, conditions that naturally have to be internationally comparable. And especially in this case, namely at the CTBTO, it can be seen that other locations – Bonn, New York or Geneva – have simply offered more in some areas, much more than we do, especially as regards access to the labour market. It is really not right what you have said here, namely that we offer generous gifts so that international organizations can settle with us. Short to CTBTO: This is one of the most exciting organizations that make Vienna a world capital in the fight against the nuclear bomb, the transfer of nuclear technology and the review of the global nuclear test stop. This is one of the very large new organizations, an organization that will increase to 300 employees in the coming years and thus compete with the shrinking process of UNIDO, so that it can be said today: The Vienna International Center no longer has free capacity. It is nevertheless quite a success for Austria's foreign policy that we have upgraded the location of Vienna and made it a great success. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Now Holger Bauer has rightly asked – that is a very necessary and right question – how the bill now looks. Let me briefly explain this on the basis of this case: We are investing a single 30 million schillings, because the spaces are partially abandoned and have to be updated, and we are committed to bringing in 1 million schillings per year over five years, but we know that the expenditure of this one organization in Austria will make up about 200 million schillings a year. A one-time investment of 30 million and more, limited to five years, annual investments of 1 million, i.e. 35 million schilling, are facing 200 million schilling annually. – Friends, such a business I recommend every investor! This is a very good investment – also in the Austrian economy. Please recalculate! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] One thing I would like to reject quite clearly: I reject – like other speakers – the fact that one is now playing a game with fear, envy or privileges. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer.]] May I argue, ladies and gentlemen, Holger Bauer? The question of access to the labour market: Yes, it is in the contract "preferential access to the labour market" – but within the foreigners' quota. That is why we have a very specific employment rate. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Right!]] They have tried to give the impression here that this would make it possible for Austrians to lose a job or not to get it. But it will be possible to argue that within the foreign rate decided jointly by Parliament, members of diplomats or employees – that is exactly the text, please believe me – get a job. I am also committed to the fact that, for example, when a foreign airline opens a flight to Vienna, it is obvious that whoever – China Airlines, Japan Airlines or the United Delta Airlines – is treated on the Austrian labour market in the context of the foreign rate. That is why we wanted this specific quota of 1%. That is why we have created this, which helps and benefits Austria. Make Please don't play with the envy here, because we're actually more restrictive than New York, Geneva or Bonn. Access to the labour market within the foreigners' quota – I repeat this – does not threaten any Austrian job and helps better secure the Vienna location, including the international location. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Now to the customs duties: Of course, that sounds strong when you say that any diplomat can buy whiskey and cigarettes without duty. It is true that this objection is justified: There are not such customs clearances everywhere, but there are very many international organizations where similar possibilities exist. I would like to clarify the facts and say that it has always been undisputed all over the world, as is the case in the international treaties, that any diplomat can, of course, import products free of customs duty and VAT, whatever he wants. It is therefore also an opportunity to sell Austrian products in Vienna International City and also a chance that Austrians will find a job there. Listen So please stop with this envy and privilege mood! The Vienna site should not be made poor – not even by the opposition.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e12994	Mr Graf, Mr President of the Commission, has made a point of correcting the matter. Maximum speaking time: 2 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e13019	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr Vice-Chancellor, you said that access to the labour market would be privileged only within the quota. – This claim is incorrect. Article 14 sets out the privilege. In your own government template, in the explanatory remarks to Article 14, page 20 – I quote – is: For this group of persons, namely the diplomats and members of the same group, an employment permit may be granted even after the maximum number of legal persons is exceeded under the Bundeshächstähl-Transführungsverordnung. [[Call out to the liberals: Oh, look here!]] Federal Minister! I do not think that these little "unsharpens" which are standing there permanently make your policy more credible. I would ask you, if you say anything about the government bank, to stick to your own government proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e13051	Mr Vice-Chancellor has spoken. - Please, Mr. Vice-Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e13073	Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to add the following: That is why we have a quota – one is national law and the other is an international treaty – which has not been fully exploited and will be able to find jobs in these areas – whether these are airlines, international investors or, for example, diplomats and their children, without an Austrian, taking away a job. Turn the argument over: There are also Austrians who work as diplomats in the international environment. I would like to tell you that I also want to see our diplomats in New York, in Geneva, in Bonn or wherever they may be admitted to the labour market with their relatives. This is so bizarre at all that there is not even the possibility – at least not at present, but I am fighting for the understanding of the House so that we can improve this situation – that we can continue to assure ourselves, within the scope of the possibilities, so that, if the wife, the daughter or whoever comes back, insurance times are not lost. It must be possible – having a heart, was first mentioned; believe me, I have it – to have a heart also for those people in our country who are important to us and our location!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e13106	There is now no mention of this. That concludes the debate. The rapporteur's final statement is not taking place. We are entering the voting procedure, and I ask the honourable Members to take their place. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall vote on the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the conclusion of the present State Treaty, namely agreement with the preparatory Commission for the organisation of the Treaty on the comprehensive prohibition of nuclear testing on the seat of the Commission, the Annexes and the Exchange of Letters in 710 of the Supplements. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done with a light of votes. The request was accepted. We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the conclusion of the State Treaty, namely the Agreement with the Joint Vienna Institute on the seat of the Joint Vienna Institute and the Annex in 711 of the Supplements. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done by a majority. The application is therefore accepted. 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the report of the Federal Government (III-82 and III-82 of the Supplements) on internal security in Austria (1995 Security Report) (772 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e13167	We shall now proceed to item 11 of the agenda. There was no oral reporting. The first speech is by Mrs Partik-Pablé. A voluntary time limit of 8 minutes is indicated. – Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e13197	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! This safety report shows us very significantly and black on white how the criminal scene in Austria has changed in recent years. Already in the table of contents of this report, organised crime is dedicated to very broad space. We read about Chinese criminal organizations, Turkish criminal organizations, Italian criminal organizations and so on. Russian criminal organizations are confirmed in the security report that they have an increasing trend. 30 to 40 companies are set up monthly in Austria, which is assumed to be mainly in the criminal sector. More activity is also noticeable in the activities of the Yugoslav Mafia. The Chinese criminal organizations, which were found to be doing so, are mainly active in the world of tow; there are repeated arrests of illegal Asians here. The Italian Mafia has, so to speak, reserved itself as a retreat area or – confirming this report – as a transit country. Of course, this also leads to criminal activities in Austria. – The Turkish criminal organizations deal mainly with car shifts and drug trafficking. It can already be seen that criminal life in Austria has changed radically. We are no longer living on the so-called island of the Blessed, where there is once and for all an innkeepery or light crime, but organized crime has firmly established itself in Austria – with all the dangers, with all the aggressive effects and with all the negative effects, ladies and gentlemen. It is repeatedly mentioned that the crime rate has fallen by 1 or 2 percent. However, this may have changed recently. Mr Kiss today issued a press release stating that there is a crime in Austria every minute. That would mean that 525 000 crimes have been committed in Austria in the past, and that is to say, around 70 000 more crimes than in 1996. There is therefore a very clear increase in crime in the case of Mr Kiss's words. – However, I have no reason to doubt his remarks, because he probably has very good channels in the Ministry of the Interior. Ladies and gentlemen! We must note that serious crime has increased, that crime is at all at a very high level. According to the report of the Ministry of the Interior, 486 000 crimes were committed in the year under review, according to the information provided by Mr Kiss, even 525 000! [[Abg. May. Posch: Yes, yes, everyone is criminal!]] I would also like to keep in mind the following: Crime has increased by more than 70 percent since 1970. If this is compared with 1989, then crime increases by 21.1 percent; the crime has even increased by 33.7 percent. At this high level, organised crime takes on a very high priority: According to the Security Report, 30 to 35 percent of these cover organised crime. Minister of the Interior! It is particularly hard for me to say that you have no strategy at all against this development. They both write in your safety report and also said in the Committee that "the legal and organisational instruments to combat the new forms of organised crime should be expanded". – I have to say that is really very nebulos! This nebulous statement does not at all correspond to the really serious threat that there is in Austria due to organized crime. Minister! Such formulas you have given of yourself are the formulas of the ratless! Instead of thinking about how to change the new arms law – although it has only been in force for two months – you should use your and your employees' energy to break your mind about how to fight organized crime more effectively in Austria. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In connection with organised crime, I would also like to bring you to your attention – please, do not luggage it! – to the extent that addiction crime has increased. This corresponds to organised crime, because, according to the security report, 90 percent of the heroines distributed in Austria come across the Balkan route, so they are going to Austria illegally. It is really alarming how addiction crime has increased this year. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Hopefully illegal!]] [[Abg. May. Posch: How many times have you heard the word "crime"?]] I repeat that 90 percent will be over the Balkan route, Mr Deputies. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Hopefully 100 percent illegal!]] Yes, I assume, except maybe for medical purposes. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Posch.]] Be careful because you were, I believe, not in the committee. [[Abg. May. Posch: How often do you have the word "crime" in your concept?]] We are now discussing crime statistics, so I cannot therefore talk about the environment, because that would be a problem, Mr Deputies. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Drug crime has increased by 9 percent. Mr Minister, you are once again bagatelling in this respect. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: But the Minister is capable of learning!]] In the Committee It means: The more we do, the more it becomes clear! – That can be true, but: How much is not explained? We know that particularly in the addiction area, the dark count is enormously large. That's where you're back at the statistics. I heard of a decree saying: The number of known criminal offences in the addiction area must not exceed that of the suspects. – That is, if a suspect has committed several drug abuses, then this is only considered a crime because, after your decision, not every act against the addiction law may be added to the statistics. [[Call to the liberals: Unbelievable!]] Mr. Minister! I really have the impression that you and Their entire apparatus is no longer fighters, but only observers of the addiction scene. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] In the city centre of Vienna, in the metro stations and parks is dealt unhindered. There is everywhere, from the city centre to the belt, a drug scene where without inhibitions is dealt. It is only a few days ago that a drug dealer or one who communicates this to me told me that you already know on the subway that when a black African sits in the wagon that is a drug dealer. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: Did you show him?]] That is where the mediation is done, Minister! That's all happening in front of the eyes of your police device! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Posch.]] You can then ask me in private everything you can later on. Minister! This is still supported by your device, because often these drug dealers are black Africans – you know they are mainly Nigerians – who are illegally staying in Austria. You can only face the most serious failure. In this context, I refer to today's article of the "Kronen-Zeitung", because in the field of illegals one grotesque happens after another. [[Abg. Arbitrators: aliens enemy!]] People are caught by the border army, which we pay extra with several billion schillings – and after a few hours are released again because there are no pushing rooms. In Graz, for example, 24 Romanians were arrested, but they had just been available for 23 shifts. One thing you said then: You must leave Austria! Please, do it! Those five illegitimates who have been attacked in Lower Austria, who have stated that they want to go to Italy, have been asked to go there too and not to stay in Austria. – These are the methods of your security device, Minister! That's what I'm telling you: Let's just leave the whole border service if it's done, because it doesn't make any sense at all. It is so with respect to both Schengen and those countries that we have committed ourselves to acting responsibly – but also to the Austrians. [[Abg. Arbitrators: You can not only have German criminals!]] [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] Minister! I see that your task is extremely difficult. But if you haven't grown up all this, I would recommend you go to New York and take back lessons from former police president Bill Bratton. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] In fact, within two years, this has succeeded in making order in New York both in terms of total and drug crime. [[Call the SPÖ:Police State!]] A state is not a police state if citizens agree that crime is combated. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Get the know-how in America, Minister! I'll give you an article where you can read about everything that happened in New York so that the city can get back in order. Minister Schlögl, your "beautiful time" is at least over. We expect you to finally set up initiatives to curb crime. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[14:48]] Announcement of an application for the establishment of an investigative committee
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e13429	The representatives of Kammerlander and comrades have, in accordance with § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure requested that an investigation committee be set up on the responsibility of members of the Federal Government in connection with the free departure of the perpetrators concerning the murder of the then chairman of DPK-I Dr. Abdul Rahman Ghassemlou and his two confidants; in particular, whether and what instructions were given in view of the threats of Iran to disclose the documents on the illegal Austrian arms supplies in the first Gulf War, as claimed by the former President of Iran Bani-Sadr. The debate on this has not been called for. According to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, the vote shall be taken after completion of the agenda. The next speech is by Mr Leikam. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e13458	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Allow me, at the beginning of my remarks on the 1995 Security Report, to refer briefly to a man who has always been a special concern for internal security across the borders of the parties and who, with his contributions to the security debate here in the House, has played a decisive part in our country's security policy: I am speaking here of our colleague Robert Elmecker, who died after a short illness in July of this year. [[Those present persist in grief.]] Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen! The 1995 Security Report is the fourth consecutive report – and for 1996 it will be the fifth safety report – which has a constantly falling crime development and a constantly higher education rate. Mrs Partik-Pablé! As you have taken back the year 1989: It is true that these figures, which you have mentioned here, are the same as we all know that since 1992 the executive has been successful by its actions and activities every year, not least through the legal conditions which the Parliament of the Executive has put into its hands, that crime has gradually been reduced in our country. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: But 525 000 says Mr Kiss!]] It is now a fact and also a fact to be read in the security report – not in all cases, I have to say that Paul Kissrecht – that in 1995 the total number of criminal offences fell by 3.6 percent compared with the previous year or around 18,000 cases. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Mr Kiss says every minute a crime happens!]] Nor is it true that there has been an increase in serious offences: In criminal acts against body and life, there is a minus of 1.7 percent, in criminal acts against foreign property, a minus of 4.3 percent, in criminal acts against morality, a minus of 21.3 percent, and as already stated, the education rate has also increased and will reach the over 50 percent mark for the first time in 1996. Ladies and gentlemen! This is an absolute high value internationally! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It can therefore be found without exaggeration that security policy in Austria is one of the safest countries in the world on the right track and Austria. [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] Maintaining and ensuring internal security in Austria must be a common mission and a joint commitment of the Austrian Federal Government, in particular the two Federal Ministers for Justice and Home Affairs, but also all mandates. It is clear to all of us that the fundamental right to security throughout its range for individual citizens cannot be guaranteed by police means alone – we all know very well – but the democratic rule of law and the security executive make a very important contribution. Mrs Partik-Pablé! You rightly pointed out organised crime. That is why, in July of this year, Parliament passed a law on special electronic surveillance, because this law – better known as "noise attack" and "raster attack" – is intended to combat organized crime in our country more successfully than has been the case in the past with the usual methods. Ladies and gentlemen! For the next few months, the Minister of the Interior will again present to the National Council a number of essential proposals to deal with. This will be a template for the establishment of a security academy, a demand which has been in the room for many years, but which we have basically not gone on, but now we are pleased that it will be serious with the Security Academy. We will also start the reform of the State Police; the corresponding documents have already been prepared. However, I am saying at this point that it will not be that we are reforming only the one side, namely the state police, but on the other hand, nothing is happening in the military services. In this respect, there will have to be a common debate. Finally, I do not want to hide that at all, especially in the last few weeks there has been a very extensive discussion about it throughout the country – another novel to the Waffengesetz is planned. Our coalition partner is not yet quite so far as to go, but I am still good hope and confident that, after a thorough discussion and careful consideration of all the advantages and disadvantages, it should be possible to achieve a further strengthening of the arms law. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am convinced that all Members who are willing to bear responsibility in this country will make a positive contribution to further improvement of internal security, because good quality of life in a country also belongs to internal security. We Austrians are happy to live in a country where there is a remarkable quality of life and a high level of inner security. Ladies and gentlemen! In conclusion, I would like to thank all the executive officials who, with their service, contribute to the possibility of these success figures. I would also like to thank the two Ministers for Internal Affairs and Justice and their employees. Finally, I would like to extend my warm congratulations to the Director-General for Public Security. Sika, who celebrated his 40th anniversary a few days ago and, as he himself said, has already "lived" twelve ministers of the interior: Congratulations on behalf of our group!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e13562	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), who have spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to the need to interrupt you at 3 p.m. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e13583	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to take these two minutes to see from this debate the basic statement I would like to make after the interruption of my speech that the political part of this security report is missing. He lacks the political assessment by the Federal Minister! I mean, the numbers are quite interesting, but unfortunately they are just too historical. So there is a lack of political evaluation – and that is not only a pity, but also, in part, a violation of the law, because the Security Police Act states that the following year the relevant data are to be submitted. We are now writing the year 1997, but these data are from 1995. Under the legislation, we should be discussing the 1996 data today. Ignorance of this rule is a political "statement". What else is to be said, I would like to address this after the next urgent request. I would just like to take advantage of the opportunity to send a letter to the Federal Minister personally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e13628	As I have just heard, Mr Fassleven is not in the house yet. I am therefore interrupting the sitting.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e13656	I'll start the interrupted session again. We arrive at urgent treatment of the self-employed application 555/A (E). This request has now been received by all the Members so that a reading by the author is not necessary. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e13735	As an applicant, Mr Anschober will first be given the floor for his statement. His speaking time is according to § 74a Abs. 5 GOG 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e13755	Mr President. Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! As an introduction, two sentences are very important to me. First of all, I think it is important to note that confidentiality applies to the work of the two control committees in Parliament on military intelligence services - we will certainly be addressing this work -. This is, of course, also true in this debate, and I consider it to be a matter of course. Second point: This is not a federal army debate, but a debate on democracy in our country. This is a debate on fundamental rights in this country and the question of how to deal politically with areas in which there are at least issues of debate on democracy, and how parliamentary and political control could look in detail in this respect, that the German army is protecting itself in its own territory, in its own areas. This too – pre-arranged – is a matter of course for me and should not be the core and subject of a debate. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian military services have a long tradition, they have come back step by step after 1955. The Army News Office was founded in 1972, and in 1985 there was the politically known situation of the division of this service into a Army Defense Office and a military intelligence service by then Minister of Defense Dr. Frischenschlager. He will have had his reasons. At the time, he also formulated a lot about the need for clear, concrete legal frameworks. Minister of Defense Fassleven has already seen this differently several times. I quote from an APA broadcast of the Minister of Defence of the 16th century. April 1996, in which Minister Fassleven is quoted as follows: The establishment of the army intelligence services and the definition of their competences must not be regulated by law. - Quote. This was first of all a very clear statement on the fact that, apart from regulations and regulations, there is no detailed, concrete legal definition of the framework, and that is precisely what is currently the problematic and politically highly questionable practice. There are two major services in the area of the federal army, which are to be placed significantly over the state police from their budgeting, from their personnel resources. There are two large services without a concrete, detailed legal framework. There are two military intelligence services without a specific legal definition of their working powers and labour legitimizations and without a detailed anchorage of civil and fundamental rights. Therefore, these two large services have been able to work in a largely law-free space for many years. Austria is thus – and I have looked at many comparative studies – in terms of the involvement of fundamental rights, transparency and civil rights in the intelligence services throughout Europe. This is the current situation from our point of view. Twelve years of wild growth in this area – since 1985, since the division – should be at last enough. Twelve years of wild growth, twelve years of development into a state in the state must finally be rich and long enough. This year, at the beginning of the year, Parliamentary public, it was announced that there would be very much progress in the direction of creating this legal legitimacy for the work of intelligence services, military intelligence services in Austria by means of a military authority law. This was announced for the first quarter of this year. At the beginning of August this year, according to my level of information, the draft military power law was transmitted to the Interior and the Parliament clubs of ÖVP and SPÖ. This draft was played to us a few days ago; it is terrifying enough. [[Abg. Discretion!]] This is a draft which is not only a preliminary draft at official level, Mr Minister, but it is a draft which is politically agreed in broad areas, not only in the military field, of course, and which is already in a clarification process in the internal assessment of the internal body, which would naturally be affected by such a draft with this content. I am therefore very glad that we have received this draft in good time. I am very glad that the Greens have been able to stop this proposal in good time and that almost all the parties in this House have now made it clear that it is not possible in this way. What did the military try to work out in detail in this draft for a military power law and to give it its own authority? – There are large-scale military legitimizations here. There is no military power law in this area, but, in my opinion, a military empowerment law and an attempt to build parallel structures in wide areas to the executive in the military field and to implement fundamental rights interventions which are not even present in the field of executives. To this end, I would like to say quite specifically: In this draft of a military power law, there are provisions for data collection with image and sound, which are absolutely the empowerment for the execution of a noise attack. [[Abg. Scheibner: Where?]] We have spent many years in this House discussing the issue of noise attack for the state police, for the interior resort – I come to you, Mr. Khol. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Where is it? Tell me the paragraphs!]] There have been many long, bitter and vehement discussions. There were concerns of data protectionists and fundamental rights experts, concerns of the Greens and Liberals, concerns of parts of the Social Democratic Group and also concerns of some members of the ÖVP Group. At least this has led – and I am not at all happy with that at all – to the fact that there is a reinforced legal filter that has been installed. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Which section?]] Although the requirement for approval was introduced by judicial authorities, such as telephone surveillance, there has been a restriction and at least a cut-off of different edges and possibilities in this area. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! All of this does not exist in § 48(1) of this bill. § 48 (1) provides for a comprehensive data collection possibility in detail. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Maitz.]] § 48 (1) of this draft, which you have obviously brought to your mind by now, provides for the following. I'm quoting Abs. 2 of § 48 Military services may require from the bodies of the local authorities and the other bodies of public law, as well as from the foundations, institutions and funds operated by these bodies, the information which these departments are essential for the performance of tasks according to Abs. 1 needed. [[Abg. Young: The explanations did not send you the SPÖ?]] - Quote. Inserted in para. 1 is as follows: Military services may identify and process data for the preparation and implementation of the completion, preparation and performance of services and for intelligence and defence. – This is not defined specifically, ladies and gentlemen. I'm still quoting from Abs. 2: The requested body from which the data are collected and collected shall be obliged to provide information. This obligation also applies to information from the central information collection et cetera et cetera. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Read on!]] I would like to read on, Mr Klubobmann. I have 20 minutes of speaking time available. The information shall be limited to the names, gender, residence, date of birth and place of birth of a person and to the circumstances of the request made by the military departments. – That is to say, in everything, because the military departments have, under this law – and I come to it, Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Khol – far-reaching powers that go far beyond the narrower military sphere. [[Ironic hustle and bustle of Dr. Khol and Amon]] It is written by Abs. 3 of § 48: In order to carry out these tasks according to para. In addition, 1 military services are entitled to collect data from all other available sources through the use of appropriate means, in particular through access to generally accessible data, collection of information, observation and use of image and sound recording devices. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: From generally accessible data!]] What other than the implementation... [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's neither noise nor grid!]] Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Khol! What other than the legitimization of the noise attack without judicial permission, without judicial filter, is this?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] That's exactly what military experts tell you in public. That's exactly what you're told by the experts of the Ministry of the Interior. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Not at all!]] This is exactly what the experts of the executive tell you that this is a clear, uncontrollable step towards noise attack and – as far as data processing and linkability is concerned – is also in the direction of griding. Another point is the field of observation, and very crucial is the point of passing on determined data in § 51 of this draft. This section 51 shows that military services may transmit data only – point 6 – in addition to some other areas, to foreign military authorities, insofar as this serves the military interests of the Republic of Austria or the recipient State. – As this is compatible with the command to neutrality, Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Khol, Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Kostelka, is obscene to me! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lukesch.]] It is devious for me to be able to transmit such data to foreign military authorities in the interest of these foreign military authorities. This is a passus that is completely unbearable and incompatible with the neutrality bid. Next point: It is also defined in § 23 of this bill the question of entering land and spaces. As a result, I quote these paragraphs in concrete and detailed terms. § 23: Military organs may enter property, spaces and vehicles in case of a risk of delay – this "risk in delay" is not defined, provided that this is to prevent a criminal offence against persons or property under § 10 para. 2 and 3 is necessary, or thus a permitted use of weapons can be avoided or necessary to perform tasks in the area of use. Whatever that may mean: This is a complete rubber paragraph, a completely softly formulated section in this area, which closes with the "high point" – I continue to quote: [[Abg. Wabl: Military dictatorship!]] For these purposes military organs may also open containers located in the objects to be entered. – There is no concreteization again, but a completely smoky, broad formulation and thus a legitimization of widest possible ways of action for the military institutions. Then one comes to § 4, namely to the scope of this law. Minister! You know that this is one of the most central criticisms. I would be interested to see if you would go here today and simply put yourself before this draft, as a minister of defence, or whether you have political sensitivity, to say: In some areas one has really gone too far, so it will not go on. – That is the political question for me. § 4 of the draft – I quote –: § 4 of this law regulates the scope of this law by defining the so-called military areas. Paragraph 4 covers, for example, the location of Heeresgut as a military area for which this law would apply. We know that there are relatively mobile locations of army goods, such as trucks, jeeps or the like. If one does not define what forms of military goods and in what environment this law should apply, then this military area would apply wherever one parks a military truck. This cannot be the purpose of the exercise, because this could mean that the military field, the military area de facto, could be extended to all of Austria at any time. - That can't be the point! I hope, Minister, that this has at least missed your attention. If this draft law were to become a reality, the daily contemplation in our country would be open door and door. That can't be acceptable! I can't imagine how even hardliners of the ÖVP want to defend such a law. After we have published this bill, I have first and foremost received calls from the concerned military, from the military, who have said: [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Which nation?]] Thank you for being turned away. – There are not only steel helmets like you, Mr Maitz! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Haha!]] There is not only a military that does not give priority to a democratic attitude. – Thank you for not becoming a reality of such an empowerment law in this country, it was said. Minister Fassleven! The key questions for me are the following: Tell us exactly: Were you informed about this bill? Has You politically accept this law? Has You already signed this draft? Carriers Are you politically involved in this draft in all its details? Or: What specific political details do you find that this draft goes too far? [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: The Inquisition is at work!]] Where will you take back your own military? What concrete political consequences do you draw from it? Or now, after this military empowerment law failed, do you resort to the position you informed the APA in April 1996 that such military services do not need a legal framework? These are the crucial questions you need to answer us today. There are now only a few records of military services known. One of them is the act of my colleague Doris Pollet-Kammerlander. This act sets out what Mrs Kammerlander has specifically identified from the military services. Among other things, their participation in an anti-atomic demonstration is mentioned. – What about military intelligence services in this country, where Mrs. Pollet-Kammerlander or Mrs Müller or Mr. Meier is moving on anti-Atoman occasions? [[Abg. Arbitrators: One should monitor those who go to an atomic demonstration!]] Why can military intelligence become active in these areas? Papers of the "Parliament" citizens' initiative are in this act, further documentation on an Alpine Adria alternative congress – completely non-violent activities that have nothing to do with military and military defence. Another point that comes from this act: About your Styrian party friends there are probably also records of military services. In fact, the participation and activity of Mrs Pollet-Kammerlander in the context of the anti-absorbing demonstrations – led by the car mark of the Members of Parliament. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Right! Right!]] If the meaning and activity of the military services are, then, I believe, this 12-year-old wild growth must be brought to an end as quickly as possible! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Dr. Kier.]] This is precisely the subject of this urgent request that, based on ten concrete points of reform, the Minister of Defence is asked to present a realistic package of taming reform by the end of the year. It must be guaranteed that there is parliamentary control which corresponds to the level of the US, Italy or Germany, for example,...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e14032	Please put to the conclusion, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e14049	... and that each Member can exercise these control rights himself, for example by means of case-law, right of convocation and the right of the witness. Only if this parliamentary-political control is correct, only if it is concretely feasible will this army be able to return to the ground of democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e14083	The Federal Minister spoke on an opinion on this subject. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e14104	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! On the grounds of today's motion, the first sentence of Mr Anschober's speech was that it was not a federal debate but a debate on intelligence and democracy. I wonder, Why did he choose this sentence? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Langthaler.]] Has he himself had the suspicion that anyone could come to the idea that this is a federal military debate that is carried out only in other forms? [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: A debate on the military!]] Without a doubt, from my point of view, there is quite a lot to think about the processes. I am therefore going to allow myself, before responding to the content of the request, to say a few words about the draft on these working papers. The debate on further legalisation in the military field is not new, but it has been held for a long time. In Austria, as a result of this debate, a number of things have been realized in the 1990s. It was not only about further legalizing the military task, but also about one of the executives. The process of first creating a police power law and then deciding on the basis of the experience of this law, which also brings further legalisation in military matters – but of course of its importance it is to be considered secondary, because it concerns only a very limited area – is relevant and was so clarified from the outset. At first, a draft law on the rights and powers of the police, the executive, was drawn up and passed by this House, namely the Security Police Act. Following the entry into force of this law, justice in the military sector was also discussed in detail or intensive work began on it. Therefore, a draft has been drawn up by the lawyers of our house – certainly also in the sense of the equinox in the Austrian legal order. I say quite consciously: of constitutional and administrative judges, not of any military, but of experts of matter, of civilians dealing with legal matters. This draft builds essentially not only on the division and content of the police power law, but also at the same time has examined and worked out in a very critical manner the extent to which there are legal regulations and regulations abroad, in particular involving the entire dogmatic discussion and the legal situation in Germany, where the legal debate has probably been conducted by all European states, most intensive and longest, and also the Swiss experience. The outcome of the expert's considerations – including the police power law and taking into account the international legal situation – is now a first draft. He is, as you know, far from ripe to be actually passed as a law in this house! I would also like to make a brief mention of the further procedure. We have, of course, talked about the calendar of dates in the ranks of the government parties and have envisaged the preparation of this draft for the first half of the year. I was asked by the clubman of our government partner to submit an expert draft to him, not, as usual, only when everything is already debated, clear and the law is valid, but already at a very early stage, so that, since it is a sensitive matter, it can be discussed accordingly. Of course, I have considered it my duty not only to consult the experts of my home, but also to consult an expert from a related resort, the interior resort, or someone from the judicial area, in order to find out about the outside. Their results have not yet been implemented. In one case, the opinion is not even available because it is a first expert draft. It is only now that the experts of our home have not talked to other experts about it at any time, let alone that political talks have taken place. [[Abg. Oillingers: These are the right experts!]] The fact that it was not only clear within the government parties, but also you, Mr. Anschober, have known this since the beginning of this summer, because you have asked me about it personally. I have told you that, although there is a first expert draft, it is not yet ready for political discussion. It therefore remains in the hands of the government parties until it is matured to the extent that it can be presented. [[Abg. Scheibner: That was a big shot!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wabl.]] However, as he came to you and by you with the relevant comments immediately to the editorial staff of various newspapers, I leave the evaluation of the members of this House. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Kostelka.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] It is a command of fairness that, in an expert's draft, if you know that he is still immature – and the Minister expressly points out – you do not pretend to be a surprise coup. I expect this fairness from a parliamentarian. I say this personally, Mr Deputies: I have had contact with you in my previous work as the Federal Minister for the Defence of the State and have never had any bad experience. But this is the way you've been doing, but I'm disappointed. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The reason for this is that I believe that political, namely domestic, reasons could be behind it is not only because of your statement of introduction. The genesis and content also suggest that the political debate, which has also been held externally, is different from what is stated in your request. What is also the first point in the proposal is the same goal you have always had, if I may allow myself to say this: [[Abg. Wabl: What? No polemics!]] This is an attempt not only to devalue two functioning security institutions in our state in the public debate, but also to destroy them as far as possible. [[Abg. Wabl: Go, please! Tell me once...!]] I'll tell you: You will certainly not succeed, for these are valuable facilities for the security of our country and of our citizens and are now and in the future an indispensable part of our state. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What has been spread to the public in this regard, namely the fact that this is an intervention in civil rights, that it is a matter of Rasterfachung, Lauschanfang et cetera, has been quite different in the debate in this House. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: What does this have to do with the nuclear demonstration?]] The fact is that the law does not contain a single constitutional provision in its draft and therefore cannot be a significant intervention in civil rights from the outset. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Secondly, It is also expressly stated in the draft law that, if there is a need for noise attack or for grid arrest, these are, of course, only to be applied in the military field under the legal conditions of the criminal procedure and the criminal procedure and these conditions are in no way affected by all the proposals that exist. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Why are anti-atomic demonstrations being sharpened?]] [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: What is the military news service doing in anti-atomic demonstrations?]] I would ask you to take note of this too. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In short to the contents: We have two services, and the activity of these services is transparent to a qualified public, within the meaning of the parliamentary control committee which regularly meets in the House and in which, as you know, any information can be requested from the Minister and his officials. [[Abg. Wabl: Two too much!]] [[Abg. Wabl: Transparent!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: They are required, but not by the Minister!]] The decision of this body can also be taken into account in all the files, not if you want to see a personal act, but if this body, which has a great responsibility, decides. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The Austrian army has two intelligence services, the Army News Office, which deals exclusively with events abroad and is an indispensable source of safety assessment in our environment. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Two intelligence services?]] [[Abg. Wabl: One too much!]] His quality has also been recognised by international experts over and over again. [[Abg. Wabl: Iranian Secret Service, KGB, Securitate, CIA...!]] Its results do not disappear, as you think, somewhere in the drawer, but of course they are also made available to all relevant departments in the Federal Government and individuals. [[Abg. Wabl: Iranian Secret Service, KGB, Securitate, CIA...!]] I do not understand from the democratic policy point of view why it is absolutely essential that the second organization, namely the Army Defense Office, which represents the security institution of the army, disappears or is combined with another security institution of the State, namely the State Police. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: What does this do in anti-atomic demonstrations?]] [[Abg. Wabl: What are they doing in gun-barriers?]] What could or should an increase in capacity in this area be achieved? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A few questions about: What's this security for? [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Why in anti-atomic demonstrations, Mr. Federal Minister?]] Have you ever thought about how important it is that the ammunition camps of the Austrian federal army and its weapons, which are complex, in their way of action undoubtedly of particular importance, be secured? This is not a task which can be transferred to a guard, because of course it is not only about securing these devices, weapons and ammunition, but also about dealing with which people are entitled, for example, to enter the arms chamber, a ammunition camp or secret institutions of the state. [[Abg. Wabl: No anti-AKW initiatives!]] In this area, it is absolutely necessary to have appropriate safety information and to take precautions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Petrovic.]] This is a safety performance that is absolutely essential in the future. There is no state and no army in the world in which it could be abandoned in any form. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What we stand for, for which I have always been committed and used, is that things are also transparent. And transparency goes so far as to ensure that all equipment orders cannot be carried out in a secret chamber by the directors of the office, but go over the normal order route and over the budget. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: All citizens' initiatives!]] That is a fact, and that is in profound contradiction to what you have said! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Suspicion.]] Deputies! You have raised a number of very specific points. Point 1 concerns – I have already mentioned this – the aggregation of services. I cannot imagine that it is a goal to transfer the power of arms or ammunition transport to police forces and not to leave the federal army itself, i.e. in every exercise in which weapons and equipment are used, whose guard is not carried out by soldiers but by extra requested police forces. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: What do they have to look for in anti-atomic demonstrations?]] I believe that this would bring about a reduction in the capacity in the area of police and the Gendarmerie, which would undoubtedly be very, very bad for the security of our country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: What does this have to do with the citizens' initiative?]] In point 2 of your application, address the task of state police and army intelligence service. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] Do you know that the description of the "Government News Department", as you call it, is exactly in line with the draft official? That's a fact! If you make the effort and compare the legal provisions, then you will insist that every state and every army have the need for appropriate self-protection. I have already mentioned this. Secondly, They're talking about putting the intelligence service under a "State Protection Commission". In a democracy, of course, we can discuss all possible forms of control, including all possible administrative forms, and that makes sense. However, I cannot see any sense in the fact that an institution of the government, the executive, is to be controlled not by a parliamentary committee but by another institution of that government. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] To postpone control of commissions is nothing but a delegation of responsibility, where no one is responsible and the efficiency of the instruments has been reduced accordingly, because no one is really behind it and everyone is delegating the whole area to someone else – until it is too late. [[Abg. In addition!]] I would also like to tell you how much I myself benefited from the information when, for example, the Yugoslavia crisis directly at our border of war events. People called in the ministry at the time and said: It's already shot, the first bombs have hit there. Why doesn't the federal army go to the border? – Do you know why we didn't go? – Because we had the intelligence service information that it would have been counterproductive. We knew that in this case the soldiers of the Yugoslav People's Army had the information that Austrian forces were standing at the border and that they were therefore sent to the north. A too early sending of the Austrian federal army to the border would therefore have meant that the risk of a conflict would have increased enormously. – To this end, these services are available, and they have also provided corresponding services in the course of the course of the course, also cost-effectively. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: What does this have to do with Doris Pollet-Kammerlander? What does that have to do with the nuclear enemy?]] I also remember having been criticized not only by members of the border population, but even by members of this House, when I had the withdrawal of our troops from the Yugoslav border. That is why I was able to do so because I knew that the division of forces on the other side of the border is such that we can allow it not only to be advisable, but also cost-effective, economic and also democratic. – This is the sense of intelligence services, not what you always suspect! [[Abg. What does this have to do with the Anti-Atomdemo?]] Now to your point 4 – so I don't forget anything – : They claim that a transfer of security police duties to the military is intended with this draft. – I would like to say: In no way. We are more than burdened with the agents with whom we are entrusted. The police are supposed to do security police tasks! That's the task of the state police! On the other hand, it is now necessary and in the future it will be necessary that security threats in the military field be answered accordingly by military organizations. For this purpose, our services are exclusively for this purpose. For this demarcation I will always work accordingly now and in the future! [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Why is a parliamentarian incarcerated?]] In point 5, you quote an EU directive. Unfortunately, they do not quote them completely, because it is precisely this EU directive that also provides for a number of exceptions in terms of data protection, where it is necessary: in favour of public security. And that's what it's all about: It is about exceptions in favour of public security and not a playground for any personalities! That is the criterion behind it, and I think that should be recognized in all objectivity. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] On the point "legitimisation of fundamental rights intervention" I would just like to repeat once again: This first draft of experts is, as it were, not yet ready for a qualified discussion, even beyond the framework of this House, the discussion is not yet completed even in expert circles, because the first opinions have not yet been incorporated. Nevertheless, I would like to say: This draft does not provide for any constitutional provision, so there can be no intervention in any fundamental rights under this law either. It is essentially a summary of necessary powers. [[Calls and calls to the ÖVP and the Greens.]] They also call for the annual review or the annual report of the State Protection Commission and also for the possibility of personal consultation. – I have already said repeatedly in this regard: I do not think that an annual report is the right instrument, but I believe that regular meetings will bring much more. And that is exactly what the Austrian legal order provides, not by chance. It is not until the spring that we decided that there should be a higher number of meetings, and at least once in the quarter a meeting should be held. I think we should take note of this. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Suspicion.]] This is the latest law, honourable Member, and therefore, as I believe, a very appropriate basis. In the last point, you have referred to the right of personal information. . The current regulation of the law and the Rules of Procedure not only provides that any individual information may be requested, but also that, of course, there is the right to personal information, if desired, also to each member of the Commission. This is a right which this Committee has to deal with as a whole. [[Abg. Wabl: You're blocking everything! How many files have already been taken into account?]] It is not for the individual Member to decide whether he can present an act, whether he has a particular personal interest in another person. It's supposed to be nothing better than any other citizen. But in the event that there is a need, the law and the Rules of Procedure also provide for this right. [[Abg. Incident: How many times have there been file insights?]] I can conclude by doing so. [[Abg. Ollinger: How many times have you been allowed to understand an act?]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The legalisation in areas that have to do with security is a long-standing concern to this House and our ministry, whose implementation is necessary in the interests of the security of our country. [[Calls and calls to the ÖVP and the Greens.]] We have experienced, for example, in the Yugoslavia crisis that we do not have a clear legal approach in case a visitor from the area tries to climb a cannon or a tank. We have no explicit right to reject him. Therefore, this law also serves to ensure the legal powers and the legal requirements that exist in the performance of the contract. In this context, for example, problems have arisen because some landowners felt that, if it must already be, one should build the guard as far as possible at the neighbor. That's how it's usual: You should not build anything in front of your own house, but as far as possible with your neighbor, so that your own garden beds are not destroyed. – In view of this, it is necessary that our soldiers, who do this service not only out of enthusiasm, but also because it is a commitment of the Republic, our people, to give them the opportunity to fulfill their task if they already have to risk their lives. Against this background, I see that, and that is why these powers of law are necessary! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] So let me conclude by saying: I am very positive about all the suggestions in this area, because I believe that we all have the obligation to make the best possible law, and that we have the obligation to ensure safety and, of course, to be as precise as possible in demarcation. However, I believe that we also have the obligation to make practical use of some of the cases that we may not see in very clear terms, and to enable soldiers to provide security by, for example, not entering ammunition camps or simply using weapons somewhere. However, if there is a suspicion in this regard, these persons should also be searched, not outside the legal order, but within, under the appropriate chewings and under the corresponding conditions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wabl.]] For that there is a legal basis, I will fight! I am convinced that, if you are also committed to the fact that not only the intelligence services, which carry out their business in the course of their normal activity, as citizens, as officials of our Republic who have taken their oath to the Constitution, and who have done their service truly excellent, conscientious and responsible in all these years, can ultimately enter into a constructive discussion when the papers are really ready for discussion. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Now you're confusing perpetrators and victims!]] I am looking forward to this, and I am ready to make every appointment to hold this discussion. That is what I would like to say at this point, because I believe it is necessary in the interests of democracy, but even more so in the interests of the security of our country, that we do everything we can to achieve a judicial system in this area, which is suitable and which, on the other hand, also protects and treats the fundamental rights of our state as naturally as anything else. What I do not wish for in the future, however, is a few days before certain elections in certain federal states under these circumstances!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e14673	I would like to thank the Federal Minister for the opinion on the subject of the request. We are now going into the debate. The speaking time for each speaker is now up to 10 minutes, the total speaking time of the clubs is 25 minutes. I call Mr Wabl. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e14703	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Let me speak a little bit of mystery at the beginning: How could it happen in this Republic that the intelligence services checked Mrs. Kammerlander during her anti-AKW activities and Udo Proksch entered the ammunition camps? Mr. Fassleven! Please tell us how that was possible! You have spoken of great successes today. Where were the successes? Count the successes! They act as if the ammunition camps are not secured. What have your people, what has your private army lost to the political opposition in anti-AKW demonstrations? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Today, a Social Democrat has said that he is afraid of nuclear power stations. At that time you were afraid of the anti-AKW demonstrators! What was it for a government intelligence mission to fulfill Mr. Jung, who is now sitting here to carry out his remaining business in secret as well? Explain that! Federal Minister! Tell me a sentence. Federal Minister! You have said that you are against the demolition of these two intelligence services. Ladies and gentlemen! It is not the problem that someone should be done evil in the intelligence service. We are in favour of a clear legal basis when officials are employed in Austria. But these are not fundamentals, that is not a law of power, but an empowerment law, Mr. Federal Minister! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kukacka.]] What you have presented here would be in honor of every military dictatorship, Mr Kukacka! I don't know if that comes from your feather. It sounds about like the versions to the 0.8 promille, about so curvy! Ladies and gentlemen! That's all you've kept in this wonderful government coalition shot. Drifts Get rid of this law as quickly as possible! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We want to take advantage of this wild growth! Since my 16th birthday. Year of life, nice people like Mr. Jung and other beer drinking in meeting rooms, at demonstrations where I exercise the securitised right of a democrat like many other citizens. They defend a state instrument that has come to a private army, which you believe you can use it according to your political wishes! This instrument has been used against politically displeasing people! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Kukacka: That's absurd!]] [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Such a fool!]] There is another wonderful example. Mr Maitz will know about it. Ladies and gentlemen! You can probably remember all the committed struggle of the representatives of the peace movement against the absurd purchase of the interception hunters. They were stifled every day and night. Each label and every newspaper and everything that went in and out there was observed by your nice gentlemen and others. [[Abg. Dr. Leiner: Why does Wabl know? Do you have a security service?]] But then, when the politically displeasing ÖVP Styria has taken place overall, to be against interception hunters... colleague! [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] I do not know if it was a cabaret of Mr Krainer that he was against the catchers. It may be that this was a cabaret. It has also been recognized as such by the political opponent. But if the Ministry of Defence writes that the subversive activity is to be investigated and observed on the mission of the military intelligence service and Mrs. Pollet-Kammerlander has been stifled because she was then against the Draken, ladies and gentlemen, then tell me: What about Mr Krainer, with Mr Maitz, with Mr Schilcher, with Mr Burgstaller? Have they all been monitored? [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Yes!]] Of course, Mrs Brinek says yes! – That is probably why this needs to be extended again. I believe that Mr Fassleven must be observed at last. Because it is clearly impelling to torpedo Article 9 of the Federal Constitution Act. He undermines the constant neutrality, ladies and gentlemen. What is it like in this case? Is the army intelligence directed against their own chief? – Ladies and gentlemen! That's absurd! But it is actually not so unusual, because this instrument is really only used against politically displeased people! Ladies and gentlemen! Please refer to a rational reason why the military intelligence service was present for anti-AKW demonstrations! [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Mrs. Pollet-Kammerlander also agitated against the German army!]] Give a reasonable reason for this! Has it been about securing the nuclear-powered submarines of Austrian Navy? Is that possible? Or has it been about Mr Kukacka's turbo in transport policy, nuclear plants of course? Ladies and gentlemen! I see no rational reason for this. It was only a question of stifling the political opposition and, on the other hand, having a political instrument, a fight instrument, and for this, budget allocations were made for those who have been eaten all day at any meetings, bearding, co-scribing and apportioning to the Minister of State. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: You take yourself far too important! You are not so important that you need to be stifled!]] Ladies and gentlemen! There's a message here. Thousands of pages of reports were written to systematically sharpen, observe, and then detonate the opposition at that time. Ladies and gentlemen! There have been countless cases in which officials have gone to the fathers of the demonstrators, to their relatives or to companies to ask what is going on there. There has been systematic pressure on these citizens' initiatives. Ladies and gentlemen! We have tabled a request today. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Maitz.]] Mr Maitz! They're subversive. You are from a subversive party, not to say: from a subversive sect! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Mr. Kukacka! Here's where I've decided to confirm this: Your person's activities as part of the movement against the catchers, including against Mrs Pollet-Kammerlander, have been identified. Such activities were also identified in the Anti-Draken Camp, in anti-AKW demonstrations, at the Arge Alpen-Adria. – Do you know what that is? [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Prove your settings! They're pure allegations!]] What does it mean to prove? [[Abg. May. Kukacka:..., then she is observed!]] That's a normal process? Just as you are always observed in your subversive activities in the inn and car driving through Upper Austria, aren't you? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Mühlbachler: Now fun is the highlight!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Minister has held... [[Abg. May. Mühlbachler: Your speech is a shot in the knee!]] It is precisely because I am afraid of shooting in my knee that such organizations, which the Federal Minister considers to be his private army, fight and argue here! You have never had the problem of being harassed by such institutions! You have never had the problem that you have been disabled in your political work! You have never had the problem of being pressured at your workplace by people who have meant that they have leased the truth and are on the side of the state protectors. That's your problem: You have no idea! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Bring arguments, don't shout out loud!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The parallel structures of the intelligence services are not a secret. Mr Klubobmann Kostelka and the Social Democracy will certainly join our proposal, because it is clear from all public statements that these double-tracks are also a thorn in the eyes of the Social Democrats. The ultimate democratic structures must be abolished. There is no compromise on this point. There is only a few cancer ulcers, ladies and gentlemen, and there are cancer ulcers in this area. These are democratical and a remnant of governmental organizations. The private property of the Minister must be put to an end. Here is the red intelligence service and there the black intelligence service – ladies and gentlemen, that is not allowed! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I know, Mr Kostelka, that you have no control over the state police. Now there are blues in it! [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: For God's sake! That's terrible!]] I know that this scheme has not been entirely correct in recent times. But we can't tolerate that! Ladies and gentlemen! The Commission on State Protection, proposed in our proposal, is not concerned with creating a new control instrument. Control should be exercised here in Parliament. But on the question you did not want to answer, Minister of State: How often has an act been presented? How often did that happen? How often has this control device actually been used? – It could not be used because with your majority you have always prevented the files from actually being presented! They simply explained this by saying that they were higher public interests and were in the interests of security. That is how you did it in the Court of Auditors' Subcommittee. Ladies and gentlemen! The State Protection Commission should define the field of work clearly. That's their job, like in the Federal Republic of Germany. But, of course, you can do even more radically and even abolish this organization! Ladies and gentlemen! In many cases, we can prove how the file view is for those affected: People want to see their files and then get a notice that this is unfortunately not going to protect third parties. And this is the way to go exactly with those acts which are very sensitive in the political field, because representatives of the opposition have been incarcerated. If that doesn't have a method, Minister of State! We must then go to the Supreme Court to get information about our files. This is a serious intervention into fundamental rights, Minister of State! I would like to stress this because you have said here that this has nothing to do with fundamental rights, because it is not a constitutional law.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e14968	Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e14983	We want confidence in the public institutions to grow! We want a slim state, we also want a slim organization in the area where security interests are actually affected. And we want an end to the intrusion and denunciation of the political opposition!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e15013	The next speaker is Mr Kostelka. The speaking time is also 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e15035	Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! High house! Article 18 of our Federal Constitution makes it absolutely clear that the entire state administration can only be exercised under the laws. Since 1920 there have been discussions in the executive field precisely on this provision, because the standard density in the executive field was much lower than in all other areas. For many years there has been the argument that the safety executive needs a corresponding freedom of movement in order to fulfil its tasks. Finally, there has been a clear commitment in this context in the 1980s. Article 18 applies to the entire executive – to the security executive, but also to the military. At the end of the 1980s, therefore, we developed the "Political Power Act" in long, disfficulty and complex discussions – as it was said at the beginning phase – the Security Police Act, which was passed in 1991 and entered into force in 1993. Ladies and gentlemen! My group is simply saying that what applies to internal security is a clear legal determination, what the executive is allowed to do and, e contrario, what it is not allowed to do, of course also has to be applied to the military sector. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Therefore, the first step was taken at the beginning of the nineties with the decision-making of the police power law, and the next step now has to be taken with the decision-making of a military power law – or call it military law any time you want. This is our objective, and we shall pursue it, and we will not pursue this objective only now, because we can point out that we have pursued this objective in the past. When the difficult discussions in this regard – and they will be no less difficult than the discussions in the police sector – have given us a taste for slow development, we have applications in this House about a year ago for a service law, a small The area of this military security area, with which we want to realize exactly what is natural in almost every democratic state – look at the Federal Republic of Germany! – namely that there is a clear determination of the powers which the military actually gives to such services, which in the meantime are completely unjustly called "secret services". Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Wabl said he was afraid of shooting. I understand this because this usually means your own shots in the knee. In this context, I can tell you that not every paper above the "Bundesgesetz" is actually published in the Federal Law. I would like to say a few words to you: I am grateful to the Ministry of Defence that the work has begun, but that what is now available is, at best, a first, provisional draft discussion. On the one hand, we from the Socialist Group have initiated the work and encouraged the Ministry of Defence to take up these work, but we have very clear criteria in this regard. First criterion: The rule of law must also be fully implemented in this area. Secondly, The Federal Army and its organizations have to confine themselves to military tasks, which means that there should be no security police tasks with the Federal Army, but only the executive. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We will probably also need, in this draft, a differentiation of the powers for the use and for the case of peace. In addition, we will have to make a clear distinction between army administration and the actual military part of the federal army – even though this is still missing, but drafts and only fairly raw designs are somewhat imperfect. We will also need a corresponding system for the services. We will ensure that the results of the studies, which are to the greatest extent based on open sources, are available to the entire Federal Government and not just part of it. We will have to insist that the powers of the federal army and its institutions are valued. And we will also have to have restrictions on the scope in some areas, both in terms of subject matter and in terms of personnel. As a lawyer, formulations such as the quite global "precaution against subversive forms of threat" show me a need to formulate more concrete, clear and, above all, militaryly related. The federal army has tasks – I fully agree – but it has to carry out these tasks, like any other area, in cooperation with the relevant parts of the security executive. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We will have far-reaching fundamental rights protection in this context, and we will also have information for citizens. My group, ladies and gentlemen, has long been working on it. I recognise once again the willingness of the German army and the Ministry of Defence to enter into this discussion. Ladies and gentlemen of the Green Group! I can also tell you: For us, this is a topic both before the 5. ==References====External links== October. You know what I mean by this: the Upper Austrian country elections!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e15116	The next speaker is Dr. Maitz, Member of Parliament. Same time of speech. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e15137	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The urgent request underlying this debate is undoubtedly a sensitive area, which is very important for the people because it provides security. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wabl.]] Mr Klubobmann Kostelka has here announced a list of six points which are his credo for the negotiations, the credo of the SPÖ Group. I can calm you down: The most important part is already contained in this draft. There are, of course, points of negotiation, but essentially we have no problems with these proposals. The Heeres News Office provides and processes information from abroad on security policy developments – has nothing to do with any misgivings – and is constantly reporting to the Federal Chancellery, the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, for Internal Affairs and for National Defense. The Defense Office is the internal security service of the army. It serves to safeguard the willingness to use and to ward off acts of judicial punishment against persons and institutions of the army. As you know, both are under the control of the Standing Subcommittee. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: How was the anti-AKW demonstration?]] On the other hand, the State Police, which is under the Ministry of the Interior, has completely different tasks. A combination of these services is simply not to be professionally represented in any way. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] These three services have long been discussed in the High House and in the public. At present negotiations are taking place in the responsible ministries, and after that Parliamentary treatment is, of course, necessary, desirable and necessary in all its width. So why this debate today, Mr Anschober? – Simple: In the near future, Upper Austrian country elections will be held. Mr Anschober is the top green candidate there, and he uses the topic of a public appearance here in Parliament as part of his election advertising. This is of course allowed and possible. Similarly, it must be possible to point out that this is the profound reason for your new provocation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Petrovic.]] A certain consequence cannot be agreed with the Greens, Mrs Petrovic. For in 1991 they voted against the Security Police Act, and today they are fighting the Military Power Act as the parallel matter of law for the Austrian federal army. The Greens are against everything police, what military and what security for the citizen means. [[Call the Greens.]] Okay, that's your problem. But it is particularly objectionable, Mr. Anschober or Wabl – I do not know where Mr. Wabl is now, perhaps he is listening to the speaker somewhere – it is especially objectionable if one publicly claims against better knowledge that the military wanted to break under the nail without the rule of law and intrusion through the back door. This is absurd and a false claim against better knowledge! [[Abg. What does the Ministry of Justice say about this?]] Every Austrian institution has to comply with all existing laws, of course also the Ministry of Defence or its institutions. [[Abg. What does the Ministry of Justice say?]] If it is to be said that such an instrument is necessary, then, of course, it is the way of justice and not the other way of life. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Otherwise, we should have decided on a constitutional provision. But those who don't want to understand it don't understand it because otherwise their entire argumentation for election advertising is broken. That is not what our colleagues Mr Anschober and Mr Wabl want to do. [[Abg. On top of that, what does the judicial body say about it?]] That's what we're going to see now. You can talk about any improvement in the formulation. But what you do is untruth on the back of the population to celebrate your personal election advertising. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The draft, which now contains 70 paragraphs, is an excellent work of three authorities of the Ministry of Defence. This work is scandalized by transparent, partyegoistic considerations. Let us keep strict guard against that! I would like to give you four simple examples of the tasks of the Federal Army and the powers to carry out these tasks – always limited in the military field. The right of directions from a place: I remember when I stood at the Styrian-Kärntner border in 1991 when I was safeguarding that young people from curiosity went to the tanks in place, even climbed up. Do you think, Mr Anschober, that we should have called the Gendarmerie at the time and said: Please remove these people, that's dangerous! Of course, the commander must be able to do this himself. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: What was the anti-atomic demonstration?]] Or can you remember the crash of a SAAB 105 in the mountains? At that time, security measures had to be implemented immediately by military institutions in order not to endanger the population, and also to ensure evidence. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: How was it in the nuclear demonstrations?]] [[Abg. Shot: noise attack!]] Third example: Assurance of ammunition transport. In order to protect against accidents with unforeseeable consequences, a power must be conferred on these military bodies. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Why don't you talk about anti-AKW demonstrations? That's an unpleasant topic for you.]] Fourth example: It must be possible that a guard commander can look into a visitor’s travel bag if this visitor leaves a barracks. They remember that a storm rifle disappeared in a barracks. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Anti-Atom demonstrations!]] That must be possible. That is why we want to have this military power law for further legalisation of the work in the federal army. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Why don't you talk about the anti-atom demonstrations?]] You can be sure that all the officials of the news office and the officials of the defence office work as properly and committed as other officials, and that they certainly do not need any return to democracy policy from the Green Members. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The officials in our military services have no special rights. They strive to exercise their responsibilities properly and correctly, and there is no question at all that in any case all these officials observe Austrian laws. Therefore, the fairy tale of grid search and noise attack by the back door is a green pipe crepier.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e15351	The next speaker is Mr Scheibner. Same time of speech.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e15372	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today – as is unfortunately all too often – we have another kind of debate. We are debating a draft which is not one. You, Mr Federal Minister, cannot be completely left out of the question. For we know that we need this law not only since the publication in question, but for years we have been waiting for this military power law to cover a particularly important area of national defence in which there has been great uncertainty. It was in use, but even during exercises it was not always completely clear what the federal army members were allowed and what they were not allowed to do. On the other hand, the question is which citizen's rights have. In this respect, we have long hoped that you will finally come to Parliament with a draft. Here we should discuss a government template and make the appropriate amendments. But how did it turn out again, how did this draft come to be known? Unfortunately – I say again – it has ended again in the way that is typical of your policy with which we have to fight over and over again. At first, some experts work out something, but everything must remain strictly secret and must not reach the public. It's late, but after that, you're kind of kicking it off to the coalition partner. That's how it gets into the SPÖ club – no one else, as there seems to be only one copy. But then – you hear and marvel! – suddenly some media know about it, and just as suddenly there is a urgent request from the Greens. I now ask you, Mr Federal Minister, because you have not given an opinion on this: How can this happen in a federal government in which two supposedly state-bearing groups work together and in which there is a coalition committee in which such important things as a military power law could be agreed? How can it be that such an important matter appears to be out of the SPÖ club – or is there perhaps a cross-connect from your resort to the green club? How can it be that the Greens suddenly make such a request? If we look at this proposal, it is particularly interesting that on the first half of the page it is only about the clubman of the Socialist Group, Mr Kostelka. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] This is about his applications, and his demands are being carried out – all very interesting. It seems to me that there is more work on behalf of the Clubman of the Socialist Group, and the Greens are very happy to use for the interests of Mr Klubobmann and his left-wing friends. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: Exactly! Great!]] [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] We have had this before, Mrs Langthaler. I will then show you that the circle closes quite nicely. German opponents are always very happy to form themselves when it comes to scandalizing an initiative of the defence of the state. We have experienced this over and over again. In addition, fear is speculated. Mr Anschober said: This is not about the defence of the state, but about the interests of the citizens; they are stifled, and that is all very terrible. Mr Wabl added that it was terrible that political events would be filmed and recorded. Mr Wabl – he's not here now – you could start with things that really belong to reformed. Of course, it is an attack on the rule of law if political parties are seriously disturbed when holding their events. But that doesn't just happen by filming. In your own area, you could work up a lot. I too have already participated in political events that have been massively disturbed by filming and photography, but also by quite different means, such as vibration pipes, steel chains, iron chains and batons. We have had to fight with such things. It was about people who, among other things, also carried signs of groups that are very close to your area, Mrs Langthaler. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Langthaler.]] I'm just bringing you a few examples so you can see in which circle all this is moving. There is a newspaper of the "Revolutionary Communist League". These are all these "poor" citizens who are stifled and yet are so "harmless". They were centralized in 1995 – at that time, but we have seen that such actions are always happening – before the grand parade on 26 May. It was called on on October 1995 to disrupt this event. "Lower with this federal army!" It was the credo of a platform that had established itself in this communist league. A very interesting conglomerate of various "democratic" organizations is combined in this platform – the colleague Kostelka can now also be careful. There is the Communist Party of Austria, there is the Ernst-Kirchweger House – we all know this from relevant discussions – there is the Peace Workshop Linz – once I have seen how it acts and what violent measures it takes when it comes to disrupting a federal army event – and – now it becomes interesting – there are a few alternative groups and the action of critical students, there is the young generation in the SPÖ and the socialist youth, and immediately after the socialist youth follows the "TATblatt". All together on a platform against the federal army, ladies and gentlemen! In a number for the same event, the "TATblatt" also indicates the craftsmanship to be used to disrupt this military event. [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: How is that related?]] In doing so, the circle, Mrs. Langthaler, refers to an action manual of the Peter Pilz. This was not always such a federal army friend as in 1991 when he said it was good that the interceptors now secure our borders. [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: I did not know that the Army News Office has so many employees!]] He – I quote the "TATblatt" – once issued an action manual in which he said that you really only need balloons to get up so that aircraft are disturbed and prevented from flying. The fact that one can also use this plane to crash is at least indicated. Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! These are the people you always throw on the tracks you have good contacts with and represent here. [[Calls to the Greens.]] I would have expected you, if you were really concerned about citizenship rights, to have cried out and tried the rule of law when it came to the fact that the state police would also have met all these criteria which you mentioned, and would not have carried out in the case of 80 and 85 years of house searches, just because they had subscribed to a newspaper about which you could safely discuss, and would not have examined it in a wrong direction, and only because there was political influence, while the true leaders who could have contributed to the investigation of these crimes were running, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens. Again and again the Kirchweger House and all these organizations have been in conversation. These are the things, Mrs Langthaler, which you always cover up. It should not be unpleasant for you if the German army can also secure its own events. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I'll tell you: Be happy if there are these powers – for example, the right of directions – in this paper, because then those tens of thousands of citizens who participate in these events as spectators can be rejected, and this in reality only protects the demonstrators, because otherwise they would have felt the public anger of the population. We have noticed this over and over again at the various major events. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: How was the anti-AKW demonstration?]] Federal Minister! The proposed non-subsidy is certainly appropriate as a basis for discussion. It contains a number of important things that can lead to a clearer determination of military powers and control possibilities. However, since you have now set up the parliamentary control committee as a general remedy, I would like to tell you that this is a very bad example. It is only interesting that you too, Mr Federal Minister, have broken the ban on silence. For the things about ex-Yugoslavia that you have told us here, you have reported in this committee under the seal of the strictest silence. That, I believe, is a sign that not all that is reported there is actually something so secret. You know very well that we have no way at all to control the work of the intelligence services and the state police, and that we never know what information is secret and what information has been given in general, but because they have been given in this committee. It would also be one of the things that we expect in all these areas. Federal Minister! I hope you will not be intimidated by this Kostelkas action, as has happened so often in other matters. I hope that not all of this will be postponed to the detriment and damage of the Austrian defence, but that you will finally show Courage, as you have shown it in your reply to this request, and finally put this non-draft into a draft and bring it to the competent office in Parliament so that we can finally deal with this matter properly. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e15500	The next speaker is Mr Barmüller. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e15521	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that the last contributions to the debate have shown that this matter is very urgent, I only hope that we will not be confronted with the fact that in the future demonstrators will once feel the public anger or the like, because that is exactly the case... [[Abg. Scheibner: I didn't say that!]] I also do not say that this has been said, I just say, I hope that we do not get into those circumstances. Because it's going in this direction. It is not the objectively differentiated conversation that dominates, but it goes – quite the contrary – in the other direction, while it is also operated by all sides who have an interest in destabilization. The fact that you count on the right-hand side here – those who are counted rather to the right-hand side say that in the left part you also have quite extremes, and those who are more in the left-hand area say you have extremes in the right-hand area – does not help us in this matter. The transfer of such responsibilities does not work in the discussion. There was only something to be done if all in their own or the areas close to them would clearly say that they condemn such actions. I should like to point out that, in his introduction, the Federal Minister said that the draft on which we are dealing here is a purely preliminary draft that cannot in fact be discussed, because it has not been voted at all. On the other hand, Mr Maitz, who said that this was a very good draft, which was prepared by three legislators in the Federal Ministry of Defence. Now you have to reach an internal agreement: Is it a not yet significant preliminary draft, or is it already a very good basis for discussion, as you have described it? [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: That's it!]] How now? Isn't that remarkable? [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Yes, a very good basis for discussion!]] Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, Then the Minister is wrong. You'll have to do this to him afterwards. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: I fully agree with him!]] That's right, the ÖVP agrees if it's not an opinion! That's the only thing you usually agree with. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I do not understand why you do not send a preliminary draft, which is already a good basis for discussion, to the other political groups. There would be nothing to do with it, since it is already a good foundation, and we could discuss the basic guidelines in Parliament. The Federal Minister has made it clear that he has other discussions with the individual political groups. It would not have been a problem to pass on and say to the individual political groups: I give this to you, this is our first draft, and I would like your group's opinion on it. I do not think it appropriate to have a public debate. – So it has been a little different, and I assume that there has already been an essential aspect of internal coalition. But the reason why, of course, the draft opposition is interesting, precisely because the Minister assumes that it is a preliminary draft which is not to be published, is that it is formulated so unscathed there. And if unscathed is formulated, then you know what is really wanted in this area and what you would like to acquire in this area – whether empowerment or authority – is sausage – what you would like to do: that is, if possible, everything and this also, without having to assume responsibility for it. [[Call to the liberals: Have you read it, Mr. Colleague?]] You have obviously read it because you come from this area; there are simply different levels of information here in the house. This is not a good parliamentary culture. That criticises yes You're often enough. Therefore, do not turn it around at the time when it is just yours, Mr Deputies. It is important to note that we are not supposed to be able to discuss this in the House, because, as the Federal Minister has said, there is information only for a qualified public taking part in the committee, nowhere else. In order not to be misunderstood, I would like to put one thing forward: It is not a question of doubting the sensuality of such intelligence services, at least not from my side, but what I doubt and what I decide to do is that this must happen in an area that has as low a rule of law as it is at present, and how it seems to be maintained by a law. For if you open up such room for decision and in fact have no parliamentary control, then that is not a determination according to Article 18 B-VG, but in fact an authorisation to do everything you want, and not to have to take responsibility for it. The Federal Minister said: That's not how it can be, because there's file insight. There is a committee in Parliament and this committee decides that it can be consulted. . But now we do not need to talk about the majority of the coalition parties in this committee. And it is true that the whole debate has a special political dimension, namely that, although one does not know from a military news agency or a military intelligence service how many people work there, it does not know how much money goes into it, nor does it know what comes out, for it is all secret, but one knows for sure: which political party is assigned to it, Mr Maitz. And there are very clear allocations; you know that too. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Nothing secret! Four ministries!]] You also know, Mr Maitz, that the political assignment of both the military defence and the military intelligence service is a clear one. And if this debate is broken down today, it is probably because of the fear of individual parties' decision-making areas or spheres of influence. This is the special thing that determines the discussion between the coalition parties, and you know it. You know that it is, it is an open secret, but what you do not want in the discussion is, of course, to put it openly on the table. It is therefore very likely to talk about whether it would be useful to have greater parliamentary control in this area. I am surprised at the fact that one is now so excited about a draft in the area of the military, which is currently dominated by an ÖVP minister or is being handled by an ÖVP minister – thank you, Mr Maitz – at a time when these measures have been called for by the SPÖ – if I remember quite well – for the area of the police in which it was the responsibility of a red minister. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Responsible!]] Raster investigation and noise attack have now been decided. So you don't need to get excited when, of course, the military's demand comes: We want that too! So far: The SPÖ in its sphere of influence already has that, of course, the ÖVP would also like to have it. It seems that the SPÖ was thinking: Well, we won't let you get through that easily! And then there is a urgent request, which, of course, is also borne by special information from a government party. [[Abg. Scheibner: Who says this was Kostelka?]] If, on the first page, which is usually read and shown, the statements of a single person are primarily the statements, then I assume that this has a special reference. This does not change the fact that the legal dimension of this debate must not be underestimated. And it should not be hidden either by saying: This is a party-political activating, and that is why the other is irrelevant, but in Austrian political reality it is also a matter of talking about how political influence is taking place in these areas. [[Abg. Scheibner: The Minister should finally bring the draft!]] The influences are a fact, and I have often heard this from the special experts who sit in the ranks of the liberals and come out of this area. That is why we should not go beyond that. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, briefly on those points contained in the urgent request. In my view, whether there should be a pooling of intelligence services is not the essential question, but it is important that there should be a real State Protection Commission – whether it has a different name, whether you call it "parliamentary Control Commission" or "State Protection Commission", is one thing – and that this control institution really must have the opportunity to ask. And this possibility should also be open to every individual member of this committee. For, ladies and gentlemen, in Germany too, the law on parliamentary control of services is designed in such a way that the individual Members have a right of question and a right to reply. And if this can be done in individual areas in Germany, then, I say, national security in Austria will not be at risk, even if we in Austria introduce a strict control right, Mr Lukesch, too. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: That's a different law! That's a Rules of Procedure!]] No, it is only in the package that this is to be negotiated, because it is true that, to a degree, powers or even powers are being considered, which Parliamentary control is lagging behind. If, for example, the Department of Defence has the task of preventing any migration by extremists in the area of the army – which I consider to be a very useful task – then, as a security spokesperson of the ÖVP, the Member of Parliament should fear, as he has, with his close proximity to the Scientologists to whom he has come, but he has also been given special attention in this area. [[Calls and appeals to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Or do you think these people are not dangerous? In conclusion, I cannot share an argument, Mr Kiss: That in files by individuals – for example, Mrs Kammerlander – the demonstrations they participated in which they have car numbers, what else they are doing – we recall the discussion that has taken place about the Stapo acts as such – I do not think this is relevant to the security of citizens in that country. And if you look around in the Federal Army, you will also find extreme attitudes there, and I think it would have been time for the Federal Minister to find, for example, much more rigorous words to do so. I therefore believe that today's debate is a strongly Party-political debate, but that the urgent request, Mr Amon, has a democratic dimension which must not go down in this whole debate, and that the points listed in this urgent request are worth serious negotiation. [[Call the ÖVP: You can say that!]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e15707	The next speaker is Mrs Stoisits. - Same time of speech.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e15729	Poštovane lady i gospodo! Mr. Federal Minister! Mr President. Several previous speakers have already expressed their gratitude to the Ministry of Defence for this draft. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Please do it in Croatian!]] Of course, this was done from different motives: the one, such as Mr Maitz, because they have thus been available in writing, which has always existed in their minds as a desire, the other – I understood at least Mr Klubobmann Kostelka and also colleagues Barmüller – because at last a discussion has come about. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Maitz.]] Mr. Minister of Defence! I am also grateful to the authorities of the Ministry of Defence for writing this paper, because it is at last written, what actually happened to your employees, the officials of the department, and so on – because all of this is under your guidance, with your consent and on your mission as Head of Division, I must accept it, so that we, that is, the Austrian population, now know what it is all about. It is not a question of restricting or regulating the activity of intelligence services or intelligence services, it is a question of powers for the military, of powers which are absolutely beyond the goal in almost all respects, if you know the contents of this paper. That is why, Minister of State, I am also grateful that this paper has come to the public and is being discussed at this stage. And what this discussion is about now is to focus on what is legitimate to all of us, both yours and mys, namely the security of the Austrian population. What do I need military, what do I need security authorities, whether police, or Gendarmerie, if not the well-being and security of the population? One of the previous speakers also spoke of national security. That is why it is important, but what it must always be about in the overbuilding, is the protection of democratic freedoms and the protection of the rights of citizens in that country. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This, of course, has to be at the heart of every legal provision, when considering a place of business. There are laws – I admit – where there is no need to constantly deal with them, because they are not as dangerous to the individual citizens as those concerning HNA and military defence. Mr Wabl has spoken in his speech about how the work of these services has worked in the past. This work, which they do, leads me to the conclusion that, as a Member of Parliament, I would absolutely advocate to abolish these two services, to replace them, to save them, and to put in a law the powers of security authorities – we already have a corresponding law, the security police law –, the work, the services, the tasks and powers – may be called this service as one wants; we already have the state police – taking into account democratic fundamental rights. What has happened so far has been a permanent construction of parallel structures and thus also of infrastructure services which I see as absolutely unacceptable, also in the sense of saving in bureaucracy and in the sense of saving intensification as a whole, which the Federal Government has indeed attached to its flags. That is why, Minister of State, it is your duty and Your job is to put an end to this tickling being. It's not something else, because how can I call what your services are doing different from "spinning"? [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: That's a total nonsense!]] It was quoted from the act of Mrs Pollet-Kammerlander. Please try to explain to someone – it doesn't have to be me, you don't have to convince me – what Mrs Mag's car number is. Pollet-Kammerlander has to do with national security in Austria! But that's what the officials who get paid for it do. That's what's happening there! [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: You say that!]] In your speech, you referred to an example of "national security" where I believe that – and this view is shared by all colleagues – the problem is very carefully dealt with, namely the serious situation – I am now avoiding saying the word "crisis" – in the war of Yugoslavia; it was before the war on Bosnia. Federal Minister! They listed what the military did. Among other things, you also quoted the protection of the Austrian population, when bombs have already flown near the border. Do you know what happened? – The Murbrücke in Radkersburg has been remembered, so that no one comes to the idea of fleeing to Austria from the Slovenia threatened by war and in war. This would have been the main impact if the situation had been even more serious. Mr Maitz. Not only you, but I too was in this unpleasant situation at the time. The effects on the Seebergsattel, for example, have been dramatic. I have seen these 19-year-old bubbling soldiers who, without training, do not know what to put on the Seebergsattel there, have been in a situation that I think is so irresponsible. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: The fairytale Stoisits! That's ridiculous what you're doing!]] This is what you should be able to do in a so-called serious case, not how you can equip the military with more powers and with more stifling possibilities, but what you should actually do in a so-called serious case: hopefully never again to place trembling 19-year-olds on the Seebergsattel. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] This should also concern you as a speaker of the ÖVP. We want – this is the intention of today's debate, and that is the content of this request – more transparency, more citizens' rights, we want democracy when it comes to creating legal foundations for the work of these services in Austria, not about the price of fundamental rights breaks and not about the objective of those legal foundations which already exist, such as the Security Police Act. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Proverbs, nothing but sayings!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! I am also in favour of the fact that, if you enter a barracks as a citizen or a citizen and leave it again, you will in practice provide for other security measures than for example in an ordinary office or in a school. Of course, Minister of State, since a barracks also has a different intention. But we need legal bases and controls to do so. And what we criticise on this paper, on this draft which I hope will never be law, is that it is so superfluously regulated. I am finally grateful for the fact that these desires are so evident.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e15851	Mr Dr. Lukesch has been reported on the floor. Speech time: 10 minutes. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e15872	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mrs Stoisits! The Green Group is slowly beginning to protest in its own argument. On the one hand, you think it's a use or an attack on civil rights when the military gets powers, and on the other hand you say: Yes, of course, it takes different legal standards if you want to control someone who comes out of a barracks, as opposed to someone who goes out of a school, for example. Please note that this "non-paper", this non-draft, has been written with the intention of issuing the legal basis for obvious needs and empowerment for the Austrian federal army! And be consistent in your argument! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Suspicion.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! But it's not about it, it's just about today, which is certainly a more memorable day: The Federal Minister for Finance held his budget speech, the Austrian People's Party and the Social Democrats agreed not only on one but on two budgets. It has thus been proved that this coalition has concepts to secure the economic location of Austria, to secure the future, to ensure social peace. [[Call to the liberals: Thank you!]] But that doesn't fit you into the concept, and that's why you're taking some kind of opportunity to cover and cast the media. That's what it's all about. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This, of course, does not fit particularly with Mr Anschober in his Upper Austrian election campaign. This has already been said by several speakers, I will only repeat it. They have nothing essential to show in Upper Austria. Not least, the highest courts on the question of the power plant Lambach have fully confirmed the line of the head of state. The rule of law has won against your intentions, and this is annoying you. [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] That is why you are now speaking falsely of a threat to civil rights, of devastational services that are uncontrollably developing their activities against innocent citizens. They want to make people afraid, and your policy is focused on it. We will not participate in your policy. You're demasked. In reality, it is not about this military power law, but about a distraction maneuver that you need for your election campaign. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Wabl has challenged me a little, so I must answer him. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Just a little?]] He and Mr Stoisits and Mr Petrovic have repeatedly pointed out that the Greens are, as it were, the victims of the services, that there are secret documents about them, and that this may lead to disadvantages that their citizens' rights are restricted and so on. When I was still completely new to this House, in 1991, there was the Kuwait crisis; older Members will remember it. Since representatives of the Greens have sued the entire Federal Government for violation of the Federal Constitution, the Neutrality Act, because Austria was in favour of allowing mountain gears, mountain tanks, to be transported through Tyrol in order to counter this attack of Iraq to Kuwait accordingly. – Do you remember? There were still other so-called peaceful demonstrations. Green Members of the Tiroler Land have chained themselves to the tracks of the West Railway and other demonstrators with them. The next day a gas bomb exploded on the West Railway and a second could be detonated at the last moment. If she hadn't been disintegrated, you would have bought human sacrifices. I would have been happy at the time if we had had efficient services that would prevent such acts of violence near the Greens. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What is available here are, of course, first drafts of a military power law, which should give the Austrian federal army, just as Mr. Kubobmann Kostelka has called for, clearly defined rights and powers on the basis of the rule of law and the constitution. Of course, this cannot be right for the Greens. To give military powers, of course, is quite against their line. Members of your group – I cannot spare you – have publicly called for a breach of the Constitution, for resistance to the Wehrgesetz. Some of them have also been condemned. Mrs Kammerlander has today tabled a request that Austria should adopt and maintain cooperation in the peace partnership. – They really want to disarm the federal army, both the military and the legal disarmament of the federal army. That's where an empowerment law absolutely does not fit you into the concept. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Whoever confesses to the state defense, including the military state defense, will also want to have a military power law. Whoever ignores the security challenges of this time, wants to abolish the federal army, of course does not want a military power law. But you do not serve the security interests of Austria, its citizens!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e15964	The next speaker is Mr Jung. Speech time: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e15985	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! There is debated about a military law that does not even exist as a draft, and it causes an artificial excitement, especially by the Greens, and tries to scandalize something that has nothing to do with it at all. What is the purpose of this law? – Let us remember: It goes back in its origins to the time of space defense when it came to ensuring that the necessary instruments were given to the military in order to prepare for a commitment – as a defender, it was necessary to go out two, three, five days or a week before an attack – and to expand, obtain positions and so on. This happens, of course, under relative conditions of peace, and there is no joy when suddenly it is dug in its garden. Of these 71 sections that have the law, two sections are concerned with intelligence services, namely intelligence and intelligence. So there's been a doll here. They talked about noise attack and grid arrest. The law is in draft, I believe, from 1995. At the time, we haven't talked about a noise attack and a grid fencing. Please show me where this can be found in the text! Mr Anschober. I want to go on, too. Their ridiculous constructions regarding the trucks that could be distributed in Austria so that the German army would have arrest rights no further go in. They're themselves. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Suspicion.]] What is the true background of our discussion today? – The SPÖ was handed over a paper by the Minister of Defence to discuss this issue; it is noted that only the SPÖ. It might not have been a disadvantage to give it to the other parliamentary parties as well. But he argues it was too early. – There can be a shared opinion about this. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Now, however, this paper ends up unexpectedly with my colleague, Mr Anschober. That's why you're wondering, of course: How was the way? Did there perhaps exist in the SPÖ someone who believed that he had to provide development aid in the course of the left-wing international development aid? Or was there someone in the SPÖ who wanted to distract from the SPÖ-internal disputes? It should be remembered that Mr Kostelka is currently having major difficulties in the Federal President's debate or in the neutrality debate and so on. So I think the real reason was another one, and the Greens were used as an instrument or use it or try – although I do not think that will bring them a lot in the Upper Austrian election campaign – to hit once again a bit of vortex. Pummelnabe of the whole – and this is already bothering me – are the institutions of the Republic, namely the two intelligence services of the Federal Army. There is still a third, the state police, but it is consciously not being talked about at the moment. It would also fit less into the concept of SPÖ, because there was also a vastly legal space: a state police force, which from the beginning had been politicalized much more than military services, with a structure that was too bad for the devil, admittedly with a lack of equipment. But it was time for SPÖ governments to create both the legal requirements and the state police to be better equipped. But it has enough to use it as a political killing instrument against people who were politically unloving. Mr Scheibner has already mentioned this today. Mr Anschober. I miss your word. At the time of the rather arbitrary house searches in connection with the Aula story, you did not "get into the gecko" for citizens' rights, as it is so beautiful in Upper Austria. You forgot. They're always making this very selective. They seem to know citizens' rights only for the left-wing citizens, and the rights look different. What other services are there yet? – We have the two military services: the Defense Office and the Army News Office. Why do we have two? – You can really wonder, but as an Austrian learnt, you need to know that there is something black everywhere there is something red – and vice versa. That's exactly the case. That is why I have been surprised before, when Mr Schieder shook his head so disparagingly when the persecution of Mrs Pollet-Kammerlander was mentioned. Yes, please, Mr Schieder, do you not know that the defence office of the Red Reichshalten is to be assigned? They were your people who did this. I do believe that Mrs Pollet-Kammerlander sometimes pushes my blood pressure with her remarks, but she certainly does not endanger the Republic. I agree. There was probably – I don't know the defence office – shot beyond the target, that's possible. You can really talk about this. However, there are also very, very important tasks, especially in the area of the Army News Office, which have not yet been mentioned in the form. We are always talking only about the military sector and the police sector, which certainly does not fall within the competence of the Army News Office or any other military service. It could easily be countered. A proposal for the Federal Minister – listen to me, colleague! – taken from the Federal Message Service Act: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Magnifier]] One adds a point in this law that states that the intelligence services do not have police powers. They do not want to do that either, for all these rights of the way were perceived by the military. These are not intelligence activities. That would be easy to solve. We can put it as a proposal if it is to be debated seriously, and we can talk about it. I agree with you that it is about controlling these services; I am full of your opinion: In this regard, we are underdeveloped, not least because control by the Subcommittee is carried out only by talking about it whenever it comes to scandal, and the Minister does so as far as possible and does not allow the competent people to speak. I am convinced that the latter may even be able to clarify it a little better. In this respect, I agree with you that there are still a few things missing. It may be possible to establish another instrument as a result of the adoption of this law or of a service law. Look at the service legislation in Germany, which knows three different control instruments: the financial sector, the personnel sector, the G-10 Commission and the PKK, the Parliamentary Control Commission. That would be a point that could be seriously discussed if one did not just want to polemize. And I am convinced that we can all talk about this issue. You can and will also be able to talk – I am convinced – not only about the military intelligence services in the long term, but also about a SPÖ proposal – if it were not as transparent as it is now – about creating a Federal Intelligence Service. Because there is no important point: It is not only about military surveillance of the environment, but also about security policy. That's not a purely military task, that's right, but it's an important task. It will also be necessary to talk about where the service is located, but not in the form that one dissolves a functioning service, breaks down a well-functioning service, only so that the Federal Chancellery may have the sole control over the services in Austria. I am too suspicious as an Austrian learner, and we will certainly not give our consent to these liberals. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The services themselves – and I am convinced that too – do not fear this control. I have worked long enough in this area and would not see a single point in the whole, in which I would have only the slightest abdominal pain to give insight. However, I do not want anything to be said about it afterwards in the "TATblatt" or elsewhere. For control must be in those areas where people are at risk. The German Greens, who at first were not in the control committee, who are now also represented there, always say that they have understood after about a legislative period, how it really works, and that it is a rather reasonable cooperation. I am convinced that perhaps even Mr Wabl would at last learn and understand the differences between intelligence and defence. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] It is an artificially broken debate, but in my opinion it may also have something good, namely that we will really be talking about these issues seriously in the future. To that end, we do not refuse our willingness to discuss freely. Finally, there is a curiousness – it is only a pity that Mr Khol is not here: When I was sitting there early this morning, he suddenly came to me, gave me his hand and said, Mr President, today is about us. – I was amazed and didn’t know what it was all about. Then I thought and noticed that it was about the urgent request. I also reminded myself that not too long ago he had approached me in a very strange way as agents of the Army News Office, in order not to use a different word. He then secretly apologized to me, not to the plenary, that's something else. I would like to say something to Mr Khol – perhaps you can do it to him: It is primarily not about us, not about him, not about me, nor about the army news office. It is a question of creating an instrument which, under reasonable and sufficient parliamentary control, is able to provide the responsible politicians with the information they need in the context of the security of the Republic for that Republic – nothing else. Everything else is cheap polemics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e16103	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), who have spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e16125	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The debate is quite illustrious, particularly in its democratic dimension: Mr Fassleven stated quite clearly that it was a first draft, and Mr Lukesch meant that it was a non-paper. But it was discussed quite clearly because it is of course also the character of a non-paper that it contains a text, perhaps actually a draft at a very early stage, which I do not want to question at all. But what democracy do we live in if we believe that the democratic debate on the claim under which such a law is to be passed cannot begin early enough? I am of the opinion that democracy is a social order in which not only the experts have the last say, but democracy is a social order in which the democratic bodies ultimately have the last say, and the experts have to work towards them. This is not necessarily a one-dimensional process of time, for example: First, the experts fix and complete the law, and then we can discuss parliamentarians also a little bit about it – especially in such an important matter, where it is really about harmonizing several constitutional claims, fundamental legal claims, but also state tasks of crucial importance so that all interests of protection are best preserved, but also the achievement of the state task – defence and security – is not avoided. That's something very difficult. Whether this target conflict is properly resolved or not, this cannot be decided by experts, but we must decide politically here. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on Green MEPs.]] Therefore: The sooner the discussion begins, if it concentrates only on the matter, the better it is. I can see nothing but a positioning of a law, not a positioning of any law, in this concrete proposal, on which one can safely discuss its quality. That is why I did not understand Mr Lukesch - I understand that he felt very badly attacked by this parliamentary action - when he argued that this urgent request was aimed at the fact that there should be no law. I mean, maybe it's a law you don't like, Mr. Lukesch, but he's undoubtedly aimed at a law, or the whole application doesn't make any sense. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lukesch.]] Mr. Anschober could have written a line, for example: Military intelligence services must not be! Or something like that, maybe a little flowery. But that's not there. Mr. Lukesch! It may be that you do not agree with this organizational proposal, but we can discuss it. But just as far as to go, if someone who is well informed at an early stage and makes a certain proposal that you do not like, perhaps not, but I do not understand enough of it in the technical detail, he does not want it at all, that is exactly the discussion that we should not have, because it makes the citizens dismay. For it is so clear that it aims at a law – perhaps a false one, I now leave it open – that everyone immediately understands that this is only more polemic. This is particularly toxic in such matter, because there are a few deeper problems behind it. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Lukesch.]] In this House the noise attack and the grid arrest were decided, and on this occasion, unfortunately, the border between security police and intelligence was greatly exceeded. The demarcation to which we have asked straight away from this pult was not observed in the attack of noise and in the search for grids. But at least there is the supposed approach to some controls. - Good. They have indirectly been underprivileged by the security police. And now, if the compelling necessity arises, you are surprised to see the areas that have been completely right-free – completely right-free! – to also order, and that of course, they do not want to have less than the police now, but more. That's perfectly logical: A secret service will demand more and more than a security police. This lies in the tendency of his being. If he wants to achieve his duties to the maximum, then he is not in himself a "inhibited" pleasant. He may take note - I agree with Mr Jung - of the need for such a framework in a rule of law, but he is understandably not enthusiastic. However, if you have already given the police extensive intelligence powers, you must not be surprised that the intelligence services want to do so right; and in this case, of course, they want to do so without judicial control. This is only consistent from their point of view. You have sowed the seed in the summer this year, when you decided to attack the noise and lattice, because you should have discussed the demarcation on this occasion. However, the government parties have failed to do so, and now – Mr Barmüller has already said that – the proportion is increasing. It has been clearly recognizable for Mr. Federal Minister Fassleven – who is well-known for the ÖVP – to Mr. Schlögl – who is a well-known member of the SPÖ – and now he would like to do so himself. Even colleague Jung, who argued in passages here with his professional knowledge, pragmatically found himself with the aspect of the proportion by saying – a blue one – that: We will not see how the red instrument will crush in favor of the black – or vice versa. The fact that these instruments are filled with colours is already a democratic problem! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Young: Are you living in Austria, Mr. Colleague?]] We are already used to it – I remember the attempts to privatise it – that we have red and black banks, and that we are partly captivating on international financial markets, but on this issue we are once again dealing with the highly personal spheres. That is why it is by no means the right to take such a discussion on the light shoulder. For this reason, I believe that – quoted as Fassl evening properly – the claim is that this is about a further legalisation, slightly blasphemous character. It is not a question of further legalizing an area which is not at present justified, but it is obviously about legitimizing something that is already taking place. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Constitutional Law!]] To describe this as further legalization, I think that it is euphemistic, I say once, that is, beautifying to the no longer going. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] It would have been more correct if Federal Minister Fassleven had left away the word "further" – and this is not a linguistic Beckmesserie – because it is about the first legalisation of these areas in the real sense. And we would like to speak with everyone as early as possible and with the democratic claim that, if the experts tell us how they would like to make secret service, it will not be possible to find out what is not compatible with fundamental and freedom rights. If one asks someone to investigate and inculcate efficiently, then fundamental rights are unpleasant to him. We must therefore set the limits so that those persons can work and are controlled successfully within these limits. In his speech today, Federal Minister Fassleven has proved that he does not know or does not want to know that in other words he has a concept of democracy which is embarrassing. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e16221	The next speaker is Mr Van der Bellen. – Ladies and gentlemen, there is still a 6 minute remaining speaking time for you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e16242	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yesterday I set up my leech, the well-known green martial leaf, in which ever-increasing reports are represented in favour of the Greens, in favour of human rights and so on, namely the daily newspaper "The Press" on page 5 or so. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: "TATblatt"!]] Although there is not the whole law printed, that is, the draft, the non-paper, or this confectionery, which is here spoken of, but only the § 48 para. 2. § 48 para. 2 is – I trust the "press" blindly here –: "Military departments may request information from the bodies of the local authorities and those of other bodies of public law from those departments", namely the military, "as an essential condition for carrying out tasks according to Abs. 1 needed. The requested body shall be obliged to provide information." [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Anschober has read that before!]] You've heard that before. I hope you will hear this countless times. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: This is out of context!]] That's supposed to be a law of power, you understand it by law? I'll tell you what this is: It's a shame! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] For every man who thinks of the rule of law, the idea is that I, as the head of the institution, as dean, or in any other x-voluntary function of a territorial body of a military service, have to provide information about it, simply because this military service wants it to be a practice! Out, Basta! That's what the law says. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: There you have to read everything! In § 2 this is precisely the case!]] The military service has the full so-called definition power, which is in the interest of public security or military security. We know about such quasi-legitimation powers from history. These are really emergency paragraphs. That's not a law of power, but it's a law of arbitrary legislation! I refer to § 48 para. 2. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: You have to read the others too!]] If this spirit speaks out of the law, Mr Maitz – then good night! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That's the kind of justice that any anonymous experts – at least they didn't call themselves the Minister of Defense – imagine. – Mr Minister of Defence, in your speech – I did not share it and did not count – you mentioned at least 778 times the word "experts". I don't know how many they were and how many times they've been. There will have already been military security experts – whatever that is –. If you had only one human rights expert, only one fundamental right expert in this Commission, or whatever, you would have been saved from this Blamage of today. – It’s just a shame that you didn’t notice what was going on here. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: A professor does not have the only claim to the truth!]] Mr Maitz! In this "press", this "left-green battle sheet", you are quoted: The Greens make hysterical exaggerations once again, they are simply against the German army and so on. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: That's right!]] Have you read the comment in the "Press" too? [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: I did that!]] Have you read this too, under the title "External Control", "The excitement was foreseeable" and so on? [[Abg. Dr. Leiner: Sure!]] A very harsh criticism was that, harder, I find, than what we have said today, with the conclusion: It will still be possible to try, namely to remove fundamental rights. – This does not write about the Greens, you, the People’s Party, the well-known left-green fighter page. I could read other quotes to you, but I don't like it. I am not saying this to hide behind this comment, but because I think it is absolutely right. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: I hope you have your own opinion too!]] To Mr. Lukesch. – One gets the impression that each demonstration is, as it were, taken by definition to the edge, near the terrorist, not every one, but definitely those that are staged by the Greens, with the subversive accompanying music: [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Not everyone, but I've pulled out a few very points!]] Such people will probably not only be allowed to observe, but must! – I find that you have a strange view of citizens’ rights. There have now been not only the obligations of subjects for about 100 or 150 years, but also the rights of citizens, and if you consider this, I am sure that you will also come to this view, even if perhaps following this discussion. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Putting gas bombs is not part of it!]] Mr Maitz, concluded: If the whole law looks like the spirit of § 48 para. 2, then it is not a legalisation, but something quite different, namely the attempt to legitimize injustice. And that's something completely different, I'm sure you'll agree with me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e16459	I call Mr Amon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e16480	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today's debate and this urgent request is really not about the content of this draft speaker, and therefore this Green request is a double one: On the one hand, because it is strange and not particularly serious, if a draft speaker, who is neither a government proposal nor an initiative proposal, is actually not intended for parliamentary deliberations, is used here to hold a discussion about the federal army – because this is what you are talking about. You are not concerned, as has been said, with the content of this draft referendum. It would also be very interesting to know in what way this draft speaker came to you. Secondly, it is therefore a flop, because yes, in this draft speaker – They say that again and again – it is supposed to be introduced the grid arrest and the noise attack for the intelligence services. You know, as one of my group, I voted against the noise attack and the grid arrest. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: You're the fig leaf!]] No, because I have a special sensitivity in this area too! I looked at this speaker's draft: There is no word in it relating to the introduction of the noise attack and the grid search. In fact, this draft speaker makes sense because he regulates the possibilities that intelligence services have to the citizens accordingly. You do not like this because of course you want to have the discussion not only about the intelligence services, but also about the German army. Mr Kier, for example, has meant that, regardless of whether the draft speaker has come to the Greens in a serious or non-serious way, it is necessary for democratic policy reasons to hold this discussion, because it cannot be useful and purpose for speakers to make a final law. [[Abg. Inschober: By post he came to us!]] But that is not the point, but the speakers are making a final draft, and we are then talking about how the law should look – in the Committee's deliberations or here in plenary. I also believe that, in connection with the intelligence activities, there must also be a corresponding sensitivity to civil protection. As a green person, for example, your paper calls for everyone to have access to these files. – I believe that this is not the right way. The right way is that, in the context of a control body as we have it in the form of the subcommittee of this House, it will, of course, be possible to consult. So I would not like any one of you to be able to understand all kinds of files – I am very clear to you – because there are many among you who have, for example, called for a total refusal to do so, committed a smooth breach of the Constitution. I already have some problems with that. To sum up, I am telling you that I do not think it is particularly serious to open up a debate on a draft speaker here, which has come to you in an unscrupulous way, which is not worthy of discussion here. [[Abg. By post!]] He probably won't have come by post. [[Abg. Wabl: By post, a state institution!]] I would like to say one thing, Mr Anschober: Stay with us in the National Council and save the Upper Austrians this form of politics!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e16558	The last speaker in this debate is Dr. Ofner. – A 6 minute speaking time will remain for you. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e16579	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! One must be grateful for such occasions as today's debate. These are hours of political exhibitionism, of revelation, and one or another lays down before the public of the house and the electorate what it really is about. The Greens, who, above all, want to make young people believe again and again, are concerned about the Au and about the like, about genetic engineering at the Paradeisers, are in fact about something quite different. We must be glad when they reveal this again – here in the house and in the public. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Wabl: What is it about? Tell me!]] Ladies and gentlemen! A "service" under quotation marks is not a pension for higher daughters, we all know that. And when it comes to pouring into the form of a law the tasks of a service, a defense, or whatever we want to call it, one has only the choice of either a very broad law, as it appears to be tried here, or one is aware of the fact that a very tame legal arrangement is coming and then the service makes what he wants. Because if he wants to work successfully in this very competitive international field, he will have to go to the limit of the imaginable at all. I believe that we must, in a sense, be grateful to the authors that they are trying to go the first-mentioned way, namely to shape and enforce a broad law, apparently with the premise that they can then also comply with the rules of the law and actually do so. Knowledge is power, ladies and gentlemen, and in the field of military intelligence it is not only power, it is also security. Security saves conflicts and also saves victims, perhaps human lives, and therefore the Austrian Army News Office enjoys domestic and foreign affairs – more abroad; domestically, like all good services, it is less noticeable – an excellent reputation, especially as regards geographical areas in the vicinity of Austria, in the east, in the southeast et cetera. It is a good organ that works internationally well recognized, and the activity of such an institution strengthens the position of Austria and thus each of its citizens. If you want to weaken such an institution, you will at least take care to weaken the position of Austria, the security of Austria and the security of every individual Austrian citizen. And that's what you actually had to do with it today. [[In the case of the liberals as well as the aggregator, I should like to thank you for your support. Wormitzer.]] I also do not think that everything there is in this sector is going to be put together in a single hand, in a sense in the hands of the Federal Chancellor: everything that exists in this sector, equipped with noise attack and grid arrest from the state police, not from the news office. That would be too much power in one hand and too much power in a political direction. In this context, allow me to make a very serious comment. Whoever imagines himself such a little from the left-wing Reichstrittel will always be "one of us" – under quotation marks – always a social democrat, always a comrade – at first he has called Vrannitzky, now he is called climate, and it will follow the next – to which he said: Maybe the next chancellor named Jörg. Play it through: Then all of a sudden, he's got everything in his hand! Is that really good and right? Don't we want that split up? Is it not that too much power should not be in one hand, ladies and gentlemen? If you look at the whole list of those who should be able to speak with you after the urgent request, you'll be swissy. Not only do you think that too many chefs are ruining the loaves. It is also a very delicate matter, in which I always wish I did not know too much, and I am also concerned that not too many people know too much in this regard. I would like to bring a quote to the Greens – so many seconds I still have time – a quote that they and their family members have used for a long time, but significantly only piece-by-piece. They've posterted, and they put stickers on the cars, and they also said: "Imagine it's war, and nobody's going." But they have kept to young people that this quote by Bert Brecht goes on. It goes on and as a whole: "Imagine it's war, and nobody goes. Then the war comes to you, and if you don't want to carry the weapons of yours, you will have to carry the enemies." – Bert Brecht. You knew that, I'll put it on you. But they have kept silent about what this quote is all about. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But another quote from your newspapers, from the "TATblatt" and the like: "Hold the cops flat like stubble." – This also fits the method you have used today. That you can sail silently and secretly in the wind shadows of the protagonists in the main book, but also those who believe.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e16648	There is no more word message. The debate is closed. I ask you to take the seats. We now come to the vote on the self-employed Amendment No 555/A (E) by Mr Anschober and Mr Comrades on military intelligence services: "Twelf years of wild growth are enough." I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to give their approval to this request to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Short debate on the response to the question 2702/AB
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e16687	We are now entering the brief debate on the question answered by the Federal Minister for Finance with the order number 2702/AB. This answer has been distributed in the hall. A reading by the writer is not sufficient. We are going into the debate. I invoke the provisions of § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure with regard to speaking time. No speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes. The first speaker and the applicant shall have a speaking time of 10 minutes. Speech by members of the Federal Government or by state secretaries should also be based on the 10 minutes. First, Deputies will be given power. Trattner as an applicant has the floor to open the debate. His speaking time is 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e16721	Mr President. Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Federal Minister! I have sent a request to you concerning the sale of the shares of the postal savings bank, in the order of 49 percent, which at least contains 34 percent lotto-toto-shares. I asked you in this question to comment on a number of questions, and I found out something I feared: They have not assessed these shares. Federal Minister! Let us remember a little back to the time when there was the discussion about the sale of the transport office. At the time of the sale of the transport office, the shares in CasAG were also wanted to disappear silently. One wanted to sell the whole by 170 million schilling, and only because of the pressure of the Freedom Party, which pointed out that it contained high-quality shares in CasAG, was an assessment carried out, and sales revenue was higher by 400 million schilling. This is a successful opposition policy that has benefited the budget. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! I do not understand why you have not been evaluated in the second largest transaction in the Second Republic. In the first transaction Bank Austria/CA there was an assessment report, but with regard to P.S.K shares or the shares of Lotto-Toto-GmbH in the P.S.K. There is still no opinion to date. Federal Minister! I cannot imagine that there is no evaluation opinion yet. In an issue of the July "Kurier" issue, an interested party in these shares, namely the Director of CasAG, Wallner, said that there was an opinion from 1996 with an assessment of 4.6 billion, but probably there would be 6 billion. Federal Minister! We have learned that the evaluation of lotto-toto-equities has resulted in 10 billion schilling. The 34 percent shares in the Lotto-Toto-Society by the P.S.K. Thus, between 3 and 3.5 billion schilling. And here you go and once again get into the pockets of "small" Austrian citizens, as we could hear in the budget speech today! They do not consider it necessary and useful to carry out this assessment to ensure that these shares can be released quickly or best sold out. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] One has to look at the participation of the Lotto-Toto-Society: After all, CasAG holds 34 percent, 34 percent P.S.K., 29 percent a bank holding company that owns Raika and the savings banks, rest with Bank Austria, CA and Bankhaus Schellhammer & Schatterer and 6 percent of ORF: As you know very well, there is a federal law, according to which a concession tax is to be deducted from this gambling society, namely a concession tax, whose basis of assessment is the bet bet. Furthermore, Mr Federal Minister, there is also a fee to be paid to the lottery concessionary, that is to say to the Ministry of Finance, in the 16 percent order, also depending on the bet. Mr Finanzminister! You also know very well, if you have read the last Court of Auditors report on the Lotto-Toto-Society, what criticism has been there, namely that the Lotto-Toto-Society balance sheet does not show the wager's bet, but rather the wager less a so-called administrative fee, and this administrative fee is at least 2 billion schilling. If the reports on the basis of the Court of Auditors vote, then you will only have to bear in mind the fact that the concession fee or the lottery concession fee is not calculated in accordance with law, less the administrative costs, lost 630 million schilling each year. But this has been the case for years now. In this Lotto-Toto-Society there is a second pot, which is called "the effort for general media support" – which is also included in the Court of Auditors report. And who gets the money from the so-called media support? – The ORF receives 190 million Schilling, the association of the Austrian newspaper editors 45.7 million Schilling, the Children's Aid 16 million Schilling, the Senior Assistance 16 million Schilling, the Sporthilfe 16 million Schilling, the Vienna Trabrennverein 1.5 million Schilling, the Vienna Galopprennverein 1 million Schilling. And since Mr Wallner is president of the EOC, nine million Schillings have gone to the Austrian Olympic Committee. These are again 300 million schillings, which also do not belong there. What's that supposed to mean? Every television station in Europe is interested in publishing the lotto-toto-numbers, due to the high numbers that this brings. With us in Austria, there is the unique phenomenon that the ORF will receive additional 180 million schilling for its publication, which will help it to increase the frequency of vision. As you know, the Court of Auditors has clearly stated that this procedure cannot be carried out because it does not belong to the ORF in this regard. If you grant a concessionary the advantage that he can deduct the administrative burden from the tax base, but which is not right, this is also not EU-compliant. I am just waiting for the first to go to the European Court of Justice and challenge this abuse. Mr Finanzminister! At the time, too, there were painterries when your officials from the Ministry of Finance, who were then expelled from the former monopoly administration, migrated to the Ministry of Finance and did not find it worth the effort to carry out a proper examination there, but they found themselves only with explanations that they had received from the staff there. If you sum up these areas, the 630 million schilling plus the 300 million schilling, then that's 930 million schilling a year that's going for the budget. But they're losing you every year, that's regardless of the sale of the P.S.K. shares. ==References====External links== We finally want an answer from you, what you intend to do here. We want to know if you have already prepared a review report, whether you will create one if you have none, and how the further procedure looks. We are concerned that the correct assessment is that not 4 billion schillings will be evaluated, which the banking sector can divide again, but an assessment will be made which corresponds to the actual value. Despite these total charges, the Lotto-Toto-Society makes an annual profit of 600 million schilling, although it has previously inserted 600 million schilling into media advertising, purely for its image care. For any additions or articles in the "trend" and "profile", which belong to this green giant area, between 500 000 and 700 000 S are spent per issue. These are means that do not belong to the media. These funds belong to the Austrian budget, and you are invited to use these funds first before you get into the pockets of the Austrians.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e16800	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Novotny. For the following speakers, speaking time is 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e16821	Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to make a few brief remarks on the original question: In this request, the impression is given as if the P.S.K. at the Lotto-Toto-GesmbH would be silent, which is of course not the case at all. This can be seen from each annual report, including from the institutions. So nothing will be kept silent at all; that is also a reasonable thing. Secondly, a small comment on the German language, if I may, Mr Trattner. Here you require an "optimized solution" for the taxpayer. I am afraid that is not grammatically possible, but we will try to find an optimal solution. I don't think you're gonna be able to contradict that either. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Principal Teacher! You can then correct the speech!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Student Novotny! Very good, sit!]] Thirdly, the question of the transport office because it was brought back here. The deal with the transport office is not... Optimally correct. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: How was your unemployment income?]] Obviously, this is something that always gives you a little reflection. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Do you know what's optimal, Professor? On the 14th, to decide on a motion for a resolution which the Minister of Finance says is a fool! That's perfect!]] Thirdly, the question of the transport office. This is what I would like to point out – without the fact that I now want to cause authorship disputes: It is about the first sale attempt to be made by the chairman of the Financial Committee, whom I was at the time. I believe that we have acted correctly here, but we have not needed the FPÖ to do so, but we have, or I, as chairman of the Financial Committee. Finally, I should like to point out that you do not have a majority there either. [[Further calls to the liberals.]] I don't know why you're so upset. These are all the facts I have said here. [[Abg. Haigermoser: We are outraged!]] Clearly, facts are something you can't really live with. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The question of the sale of shares. [[Abg. May. Stadler: What about the resolution of 14. - Yes?]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! On today's subject, I would like to say very clearly: That is not a political question! [[Abg. May. Stadler: What about the resolution of 14. - Yes?]] – We can also speak to this. Mr President, I should like to thank Either – or. I think you will have to get used to some logical consistency. You have now put a theme on the tapet to which we are now talking. If you want to talk to something else, you have to put it in a parliamentary way! You have the appropriate parliamentary possibilities to do so. Now we're talking about what you've given up here. It is your own initiative! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I note, Mr President, that you are obviously no longer interested in your own initiative, because you are talking about something else at once. We can draw our conclusions from it. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Professor! Don't get nervous! I just wanted to ask you what your resolution from 14. - Yes, it is!]] Your behavior can be seen how you obviously appreciate the quality of your own requests. I'm sorry for you! I am also sorry for Mr Trattner, whom I appreciate for himself and who does not deserve him to actually get his answer through such distraction maneuvers. [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Stirring!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Stop the egg dance!]] Therefore, if you can listen briefly now to the content. This is not a political question at all. This is a purely objective question to be discussed very soberly here. This is the question of revenue for the budget, and we shall examine it accordingly. Of course, it is also a question of the banking structure, that is, the question of what this means for the postal savings bank. After all, the Postsparkasse also has private owners – even now, due to the issued participation certificates. What happens to the holders of these participation certificates? What happens to the outstanding bonds of the postal savings bank? These are all purely technical issues, and they will be settled in peace. Last point: I believe that we should also make it quite clear, in connection with the game monopoly law, that this is also a question that is correct and serious to answer. We should not let ourselves become lobbyists for any company, not for the Lotto-Toto-Society, but also not for others. You know that there is, of course, a considerable competition there, and I would warn everyone to be used here as a lobbyist for certain undertakings. There is a proper procedure in this regard. The Minister for Finance has initiated it, and I very much hope that the FPÖ will also accept the course of a proper procedure, which will be carried out under close scrutiny of all the rules and with the involvement of serious experts. Otherwise, you would give the impression that it is not about you, but rather that you want to beat political change out of a matter that is actually a purely economic, practical question that lies in proven hands. [[Abg. Haigermoser: That's not a change anymore, that's already a shine!]] That's, I think, the point. There's no reason for any excitement. It is a normal procedure to be dealt with accordingly.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e17017	Next speaker is Member Dr. Stummvoll. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e17039	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We have repeatedly discussed issues of the capital market and banking structure in this House last year. For example, I recall the question of Bank Austria and CA. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Don't have the resolution on the 14th. Introduced?]] They have known my position on these issues, but despite all the differences – and do so today in this discussion – I have warned of bringing viewed money and credit institutions into the day-to-day hack. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: That's what an ÖVPler says!]] This is not the task of Parliament to bring to the political headlines money and credit institutions with international rank and names, Mr Bauer. They are trying to change political change here, at the expense of the seriousness of our money and credit apparatus, ladies and gentlemen, and I reject this with all my determination! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Who put the Bank Austria in the talk, Mr. Stummvoll? Who was that? That was you, Mr. stupid!]] What's this about? The issue is whether in the course of the sale of 49 percent of the shares in the P.S.K. a better proceeds can be achieved if the lotteries are released or not released. That's the question. It does not at all indicate, as Mr Novotny said, that there is something to be kept secret or hidden. This is always the direction of your inquiries: to give the impression that it is not quite memoryier, something will be hidden or hidden. [[Further call of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] Mr Stadler! We know your strategy! Let at least the reputation of our monetary institutions come out of political polemics! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: You have brought the Bank Austria into conversation! They were!]] I do not trust to say today which of the two variants for the taxpayer brings the better result: the variant to sell 49 percent P.S.K. shares, including lottery shares, or the variant to release the lottery shares before. I'd like to admit: At first glance it may appear that the higher yield can be achieved if you release the lotteries before. It may be. But this is very, very careful and serious to examine, ladies and gentlemen. I do not agree on any variant, this is very serious to question and to support with opinions and so on, but I only draw attention to this: A trigger of the lottery parts from the P.S.K. undoubtedly means the withdrawal of P.S.K.'s own resources, means the withdrawal of the only large silent reserve that the post office has. This is to be taken into consideration. The second is that, in the case of international emissions in contract terms, a provision is very often – and in this case too – contained that an investor's return obligation is provided for when the issuer is deprived of capital from its owner. That's exactly what's going to happen here. So that's a very sensitive and sensitive question. You know: It is not just a comparison, Mr Stadler. By our colleague Trattner, the comparison was made with the Verkehrsbüro – Casino. It is certainly right that a traffic agency does not necessarily have the task of keeping casino shares. But whether we are withdrawing own resources from a bank already has significant effects, including on international financial markets. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: 600 million wanted to clear the bowl!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Your breakfast chancellor wanted to clear away 600 million!]] In summary, ladies and gentlemen: I am in favour of having a serious review here, correct action being taken to draw up an opinion and then weighting the variation for taxpayers which is the cheaper. And I am very much in favour of you holding back a bit with all your polemics and demagogy in this house.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e17161	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e17182	Mr President. High house! Minister! It is remarkable, as Mr Novotny and Mr Deputies stupidly argue, that already stated in today's "standard": The silent reserves of the P.S.K. Makes the value out of it. That's all the sports bets. This lets you look deeply at the value of the P.S.K. when you set the sports bets as the value scale for the P.S.K. I don't know. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But, Mr President, one thing is really not fair: to say that we would move the financial institutions into the political hack. Yes, who is General Director of the P.S.K.Unknown term type: "%s".? I think that's a chancellor's secretary. I don't think that's the only chancellor's secretary who's become something. Is it not at the investment credit of the Kreisky Secretary, the Vranckky Secretary, have you not made Marc Hall the Board of Directors of the OMV today? Do we now also make political change with the OMV? What's going on? [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: What is this question? Is there a sifting warrant?]] So I have to tell you, that's unfair! This is just because at the moment you have not been the last chancellor's secretary with your mandates in political terms with the banks and the Wallner, who has brought it to something! I have to tell you: Goods You say to them the success and not that we are making political change! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Even though Mr. Schimetschek and Mr. Konrad have no head and the whole thing is like the shale tower of Pisa, because the partyobmann is somehow in abeundi and the new Fischl is not yet there – they have their structure! For there is the Sellitsch, there is the head of Vienna and above that is still the Federal chancellor. – This is a great structure, I must say! This is how the posts are given and not the other way around! So don't put something under us, but stop the mail chess! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: This is a social contract and not a post-chacher!]] But I have to tell you, you already have a position to lose. The Hampel has already proposed a third board of directors at the PTV today. You know why? – The PTV has reduced 15 percent of employees, because of course you need a social democratic board structure. That's quite clear! [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: That's not the topic!]] That's the subject. They say that we are making the subject a political hack. [[Abg. Dr. Stummvoll: Then you have made the wrong request! It's about the P.S.K.- Oh, my God!]] Regarding P.S.K. We'll see! Whether not between Sellitsch and Schimetschek – your Schimetschek! – the P.S.K. Then nice filleted in proportion style, we will still see that. It looks the way the "standard" writes. Or will it be different? - I don't think so. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] And that you have cleared the position of the head of staff in CA, Mr. Deputy, that now, just because he has had your party book, just because he has had an ÖVP party book and said nothing about it, five years in full terms – two and a half million schilling a year – is on the street, since I must say that you could have been able to turn on for your people once too, because this head of staff has been a good man. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: When is he going for a walk?]] You have never said anything that perhaps there will not be one again with a new red party book. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: You either give the wrong speech or you have made the wrong request!]] This is the post-achiever in the financial sector, which you ultimately have to support, because you lack the biceps somewhere to stop what is constantly developing here. That's it! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the liberals.]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Friendship! I have to tell you if you like the CA exchange offer with 4: 3 so much, without your people getting an evaluation opinion from CA, if the Supervisory Board is not informed of it at all, and the small shareholder representative who said, without evaluation opinions, we do not agree with the exchange offer, in fact, has never seen one, just because his firm has a mandate for the Bank Austria – CA merger, then this is the attitude in the financial sector with which you have to stop once. The post office goes into the same structure, I already told you. There's the red insurance, there's the black insurance. We'll see it all again. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That we don't play in this game is actually logical. Become an opposition They may still agree that they show such abuses as they have occurred on the capital market in Austria and have led to international laughter. It's better, we're gonna dry this morast. Don't say that we're swimming in the morass of suspicions, but we're just trying to dry this moratorium. And if the President of the Federal Republic would help us in the future if you could motivate him, we would also be very grateful.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e17350	Mr Dr. Hazelsteiner has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e17418	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have to say that I have tried to follow the arguments of my previous speakers, but there seems to be a great misunderstanding: The relevant participation in the Lotto-Toto belongs to an Austrian stock company, and if we are talking about the Republic or the Minister or any other one that will trigger it, then there is still a share law, a non-binding, at least theoretically unbinding, Board of Directors, which is appointed for five years, and above all there are minority shareholders. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Who do you throw it back in today?]] And there's one standing here! I own such shares. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: After great!]] And if this Republic intervenes in the autonomous decision of a Board of Directors and if this is not sold at least by the market value, then there will be Zoff here, ladies and gentlemen. That's not a question at all! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I won't let my P.S.K., in which I own shares, steal from someone's table silver. Not the Minister of Finance either! On the other hand, I must say, Mr President, I do not understand you. They are still talking about two variants. Yes, what are the variants in your opinion? There is only one thing: if the Executive Board decides, with the approval of the Supervisory Board and then, of course, at the best price! This will, of course, be observed precisely after painful experiences, especially with you close to the groups of bidders. Because you remember: The credit institution should cost 7 billion schilling – for a black game, I say now – has brought it a tener more. This is a remarkable difference. We will therefore ensure that this lotto-toto-participation goes beyond the real market value. What the shareholders then decide what capital resources the P.S.K. AG should have whether this should remain inside or whether it should be distributed, it will be seen, and of course such a decision-making will affect the price of the P.S.K. share of 49 percent. But of course one can't: One cannot say, as Mr Novotny has done, that this lotto-toto is the silent reserve. Ladies and gentlemen, non-profit assets have nothing to do with equity capital. The non-commercial assets are of course the disposition, and it is legitimate for the owner to say: I want my part of that. And now, of course, I have to say: From this point of view, the Minister of Finance will be well advised to allow this sale, because it will in any case be the double "privatisation proceeds" – under quotation marks. That's quite clear! The disposition is 49 percent of P.S.K. shares, but the P.S.K. can sell full 34 percent of their lotto-toto-participation and not 17. Therefore, it will be in the interest of the Republic to maximize the privatisation proceeds for the Republic if this sale and the sale of non-commercial assets are carried out. There should be no debate on this at all. The fact that distrust is great is that one says that there are some going to be some of them again, there are black and red insurances, please, ladies and gentlemen, you have to attribute that to yourself. That you could not decide to have a real majority at the P.S.K. To sell AG, but that you still want to keep 51 percent and thus the dominant majority in a state-dominated holding company, this distrust is even more incitement than to calm it down. All these things, ladies and gentlemen, have been saddened in the past. They have nothing to do with it, Mr. stupid that we have the good reputation of the P.S.K. ruptured. We look at our "Gerstl" – especially the shareholders of shares, the participation licences – and we look very closely at your fingers, Mr. stupid and Mr. Novotny – not your personal, but those of your parties – because in the past we have no confidence to build. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e17474	Now, Mr Edlinger, Federal Minister, has spoken. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e17496	Mr President. High house! I am not the owner of participation certificates, so I can speak more entremisedly than Mr Hazelsteiner, but I would also like to say – because this is in the Minutes – that I do not intend – neither you nor anyone else – to avoid the silver table. Only so that this is also in the protocol and is clarified. Secondly, I note that I have very great sustainability by Mr Magistrate. Trattner is addressed for a separate sale of the P.S.K. shares at the Austrian Lotteries GesmbH, at very short intervals: in the parliamentary debate on 11 November. In June, at Question Time on 11 June. ==References====External links== It is a matter of course, Mr President, of course, that we should not forget that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to exposure to dangerous substances. However, I would like to remind you what attitude I have taken so far, because there is no reason at all to build up some papier soldiers prophylactically and thus to put them in the room, which perhaps in the course of the partial privatisation of the P.S.K. It may be possible to provide for this. I would therefore like to express once again my personal point of view very briefly, and it is true that it is largely a matter of organ decisions taken by the institutions concerned, but of course it is also to be dealt with on behalf of the owners. It is related to the partial privatisation of the P.S.K. To examine in detail – and here I share your opinion, honourable Member Trattner – which solution is economically optimal and legally, above all also EU law, and in the best possible way the owners of the P.S.K. not in any adverse situations, as the owner of Dr. Hazelsteiner fears: the sale of 49 percent of P.S.K. including lottery share or – this is the second variant – the separate sale of 49 percent of P.S.K. shares and 34 percent of the lotteries. It is undisputed – and in so far as I do not understand a remark by Mr. Dr. Prinzhorn, if he thinks that the lottery is the only thing the P.S.K. has – in fact – you rightly always argue, Mr Mag. Trattner – the lottery is a very valuable company, and you have also explained this in great detail. The proportion of P.S.K. AG at the Austrian lottery is therefore an essential part of the value of the P.S.K. self. We have decided to do so by law in 1996, the P.S.K. In part, to privatize. The federal government is – and this is also required in the law – but with a 51 percent share the majority in the P.S.K. hold. It is therefore of course also of non-negligible interest to be careful that the P.S.K. In its entirety, of course, an institution capable of functioning, an innovative, in line with the new market conditions remains in line. I therefore believe that it is very important that we prepare and review the step of privatisation in a very precise manner. The steps leading to privatisation will work in such a way that the PTBG, as you know, is responsible for a privatisation concept for the P.S.K. It is therefore necessary to draw up a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to exposure to certain dangerous substances. This privatisation concept must include the nature, extent and date of privatisation. The P.S.K. AG is to be sold with or without lottery participation. So that's a perfectly imaginable variant. This privatisation concept must be presented in accordance with the new privatisation law adopted by the Federal Government in July 1997. Then the privatisation process is carried out. Interested parties are invited to make offers, sales talks are conducted. Before the award of the award, of course, the approval of the General Assembly must be obtained. At the current stage – so that the next request is not to be made in four weeks –: [[Abg. Böhacker: She'll be fine!]] We are currently in an important phase of the P.S.K. partial privatisation. The SBC Warburg, an international investment house, is working on strategic options for the P.S.K. I have already pointed out that it should not be neglected that the federal government will continue to hold 51 percent of its share. In addition to my information to you at Question Time from July I can ask you in the In the meantime, an audit and tax consultancy firm is informing it with the evaluation of the P.S.K. AG and P.S.K. ==References====External links== However, such a final assessment is not yet available. [[Abg. Böhacker: Which firm is that?]] I would therefore ask you to exercise a little more patience. [[Abg. Böhacker: Is it known which firm this is?]] I do not intend to proceed in any way in such a way that it is not clean, transparent and optimal for the owners of the P.S.K. It is. I would like to achieve the best possible exploitation in this context. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e17575	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e17597	I shall now take the negotiations on the 11th. Agenda item on the 1995 safety report. We'll continue in the speaker list. The next speaker is Mr Kiss. [[Call the ÖVP:Kier! Kier! Kier interrupted!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Kid was master!]] Excuse me! I had an imperfect information. Mr Kier, I apologize! You obviously started your speech before 3 p.m. and continue it now. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e17636	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is, of course, difficult to follow up on what happened before 3 p.m. after such a debate, but I would like to make a few returns, in particular to the colleague, Partik-Pablé, but also to my colleagues, Mr Leikam, who have already taken the floor. Mrs Partik-Pablé! The problem of a safety report is of course that it can be read differently. One can interpret it according to good intentions, and it is now the question of what form of interpretation is adequate in a safety report. Of course, interpretations cannot be better than the report itself, and therefore it is unfortunate that it actually has some shortcomings. But anything else in security policy matters than a long-term consideration, a sustainable consideration is basically panic, because there are statistical values that vary more over shorter periods, and there are statistical values that remain unobtrusive over shorter periods, but can nevertheless give cause for concern – and vice versa. Therefore, it is one of the main weaknesses of the security report that it actually fails to do so in the long-term view and thus opens the door to any interpretation that is being interpreted so strongly from the subjective possibilities that it is also suitable for it – as carefully as it is in its facts – that one can cause fear. This is a political weakness of this report, which is directly related to the lack of a political part. The security report does not contain a real political assessment, which would at least be possible in the form of a detailed preface, and I believe that it is not enough to put uninterpreted figures into space, but it is an essential task of politics or the responsible ministries to share their assessment of these figures. This can then be again shared, but it is essential that ministers in ministerial responsibility also maintain their assessment of the objectives achieved, the objectives not well achieved, the objectives to be achieved in the form of a political assessment. This element is missing in this report. In this respect, he is mainly a statistical report, mainly a report of figures, and on this point again his most serious lack is that he always comes a year too late. In the Security Police Act § 93 para. In fact, 2 is standardized: The Security Report contains a report on the implementation of the Federal Law in the past year. – And the past year at the time of reporting is all the previous year and not the previous year. That is why we now have to talk about the 1996 figures. I have already discussed this in the Committee, and there I am faced with technical difficulties associated with the interaction between the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior. I tell you, that may be already, it may be that you do not deliberately delay it, but if a legal order exists and it cannot be fulfilled, then there are two ways: Either you remove the obstacles or you change the law and admit that you need two years. But we do not want this because, of course, a two-year safety report is much less close to the problem than one coming from the previous year. All these are aspects that make it possible for some on the subject of security to drop down the small coin by making any claims about the development in crime, because there is no official data from the short reference period. Then you can freely interpret or, for example, – as Mr Partik-Pablé did in the present case – you can deliberately misinterpret the somewhat salopp formulated statement of colleagues Kiss "a crime per minute" by simply multiplying it with every minute of the year. That was a metaphor, I would say. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That wasn't salopp! No, no! That was the headline from the press service! That was the headline from the press service!]] Now he does not need my defense, but it must not be that one converts such things into absolute numbers and then places them as fix. Then it is quoted, and at the common tables this fixed number is quoted. If a colleague with whom I sometimes have my differences is misused in this case as a witness for something he cannot even have meant, then this is a kind of security debate that I do not like. I don't like that. I am certainly in agreement with Mr Kiss very rarely, but that, please, is not possible. You can't do that. It is then thrown around with terms like the Asians or the Russians or the Italians or the Turks, in a completely general, flat-rate form. Of course, we know that the organized crime also has such links, and, of course, if criminals in Russia think of something they want to do here under the impression of legality, by setting up a company, the partners are probably mainly Russians. That is true, but that is not a nationalist problem, but it is a problem of the origin of criminal organizations. Although they have a local reference, this – still in a security debate – is as if it were a characteristic of the Russians, the Asians or the Turks, so to speak, that serves fear and not objectivity. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on representatives of the SPÖ.]] If you say that 30 to 40 companies with Russian partners are set up each year that are suspected of serving crime, I will tell you: Any company that is set up can, if one wants it, be suspected of serving crime because at the time of its establishment, all companies look almost the same. They have a company contract, they have the minimum organs, they are registered in the company's book – that usually makes a notary – they are usually employed by lawyers, and they have the minimum capital or more. This is indicated in the company's books. Of course, that can always be all the shadows and tricks. It's always possible. That is why we need opportunities to question this, but at the start-up time it will be difficult, unless you feel that you are setting up companies and for yourself the characteristic of organized crime. Sometimes I think that our economic policy has the appearance of an anti-foundation policy and that one believes that this is perhaps an element of combating crime – so our trade order, which makes it impossible to make itself independent, and so on and so on – but I do not believe that the colleague Partik-Pablé meant, because she did not want to push into that depth. But I sometimes feel that way. On the one hand, it is not unpleasant for foreign investors to set up companies here and perhaps to make their money, by investing here and making it safe and stable, and by not being able to carry it so easily, except that they may sell the stake. But the investment is still here. Sometimes people don't notice this difference without any further notice. Of course, it can be considerable if it results in a change in business policy. But all this, Mrs. Partik-Pablé, just use it to scare. [[Abg. May. Stadler: How was Alpha Construction? – This has also been a company foundation! Alpha Bau!]] Mrs Partik-Pablé said that structural changes were essential. I am now only analyzing what she has said so that we can remember the debate and the debates that took place before the urgent one, because these are very nice things. The increase in the awareness-raising rate was not the case. If I worry about the development of crime, and if on the occasion of the increase in the rate of Enlightenment, I am not sincere! [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Mr Leikam! Noise attack and grid arrest as a means of combating organised crime. I ask you: What's the connection? Where is he recognizable in the safety report? – There is no connection in the security report because you did not introduce this until later. Or the novel to the Weapons Act in the security report. Where is the context recognizable if there is no statement in the security report as to whether firearm crime has been carried out with legal firearms or with illegal firearms – either with those acquired with weapons possession card or with weapons passport, or with others – if there are no international comparisons and if any statements about the arms law and offences against the arms law are missing? – Without this information, however, a discussion on the further development of gun crime is very difficult. Last aspect: If we want to find ourselves on a proper security debate, we need, first of all, more up-to-date figures, secondly, the long-term component as a consideration, and thirdly, a political assessment by the rapporteurs. These can then be disputed, and it would be much easier to have a discussion if the ministers responsible were to take a concrete position. To conclude, I would like to say once again: If a law provides for a time limit within which it is to be reported and not reported within that time limit, one cannot agree to such a report, because it is a more difficult one, the Parliament to and for itself disrespectful of the lack of form. And I ask you to consider whether you agree. If you agree here, you will agree that we will be pleased to be reported a year too late. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e17723	Mr Kiss. — (NL) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on Please, honourable Member, you have the floor. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e17745	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! First of all, I would like to make an atmospheric statement – the compliment I would like to extend to the two ministers responsible –: I cannot remember having followed in recent years a debate on the security report, which has been so detemorational. I think it's also the new Minister of the Interior. Mr Leikam nodds to me, and I assume that this is an acceptable consideration, because I know that Minister of the Interior Schlögl is doing his work in a way that he informs, binds all the speakers in the security field and, of course, draws the relevant conclusions from it. [[Abg. Leikam: Always, always! Otherwise, I would have shook my head!]] At the outset, therefore, I would like to thank you for discussing a safety report in an atmosphere that I believe is factual and serves the matter in itself. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Haider.]] – How was that, colleague Haider? – Please go, don’t even scatter salt into the wounds that already partially scar! [[Abg. May. Stadler: Mr Hubbard has embarrassed you!]] The colleague, Partik-Pablé, who interprets me in a way that does not apply, which is why Mr Kier defended me, is written in the main book: Of course! If I divide – the number of criminal acts, whether crime or crime, is comprehensible to us in this security report – then a criminal act comes at just one minute. That is plausibly said, but what it derives from this observation is wrong what it does – no – that it says exactly the opposite of what I want to say. [[Abg. May. Stadler: She said that too!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: She reads the press service from you! No one else reads it! And then you'll get upset about it!]] Because there are a number of crimes and crimes, we want to use our style, and that is our line – in common – no, no – together with our coalition partner in a responsible, comprehensible, positive way for the people and the Republic – and this is always motivating for the executive and not out of fear-making and panic-making! [[Abg. May. Stadler: It’s really bad if you need to explain a press service!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] For it has probably forgotten to say, of course, that there is also an Enlightenment rate of 45.4 percent. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler]] [[Abg. Leikam: 49,3!]] – Yes, if you also include the traffic offences, then it is almost 50 percent. [[Abg. Leikam: 45.3 was 1990!]] – Of course! This is a reconnaissance rate, which can be seen internationally, a reconnaissance rate that does not need to hide any comparison as always. [[Abg. May. Stadler: How many minutes are these, the reconnaissance rate? How many minutes are these in the year?]] – I needed a calculator, colleague Stadler, to do that! - No, I didn't. [[Abg. May. Stadler: I believed you already figured it out!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: But then don't blame Mr. Partik-Pablé!]] The ÖVP highlights its positions in this security report and makes it clear, just as we are trying, in the coalition, to comprehensiblely fix our positions together with the coalition partner. As an ÖVP, we want to have a strong state. We want this strong state, and we have never called into question the state monopoly of violence. A strong state is a fundamental right for citizens. This fundamental right must be safeguarded in the long term. We want the citizens to feel safe. The safe citizen is the one who can also contribute accordingly in a common good, who is not afraid of any panic, who knows that this legitimacy is brought into the world of life every day from the state mission and from the executive officials. And we want the motivated executive. We want him to be motivated, powerful and committed to his work, and we are convinced that we are on a good path. One thing has been said in our many visits, in the discussions we have with our colleagues: If the framework conditions are right, if the political mandate is clear in the sense: The policy stands for us, politics protects us, politics wants us!, then it is clear that the motivation is also appropriate. Ladies and gentlemen. Of course, I would also like to say something that is important to me personally: I have been able to conduct the negotiations together with Klubobmann Khol and Deputies Platter in a way that we met with the Minister for the Interior and the Minister for Justice, who was free of fraud. Of course it's not. The views of the political parties have come to the table clearly and unmistakably. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: That's a mess!]] – No, Mr Haider, this is the way to negotiate in a coalition! - No, that's how you deal with each other. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Such a winery!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Now you're under the carpet again!]] – This is a way of doing it very easily. [[Abg. May. Stadler: "We thank the SPÖ for not being sent out through the back door! Thank you! Thank you!"]] The fact is that only in these circles around the compromise, to argue, and this in an acceptable climate that is non-fractional, will the common political path be successful. This relationship has been excellent in the negotiations, and this has led to some respectable progress in the last half of the year. By the way, I am also recording that it is the Freedom Party and particularly the colleague, Partik-Pablé, who, in her speech today, has not said all that I have heard in recent years. This was for me in about the same way as at the time when Mr Löschnak was still Minister of the Interior. Haider-Zitat: Our husband in the government! – On Schlögl this is not yet said, but I have not heard a single word from Mr Partik-Pablé, even today, who has commented in a critical way on the office of the Minister of the Interior. So don't ask us, the ÖVP, not the Klubobmann and I, to put something to Mr Platter, which the FPÖ does not interpret in any other way! It is only so that this is said clearly and clearly! The ÖVP also sets out reformatory approaches. So where do we want to go? Where's our consideration going? What way do we want to go? . We say that priority is the principle of the visible police and the visible gender. So get away with the officer from the central offices, out with him on the street, where he has been preemptive by his personal, physical presence alone. There the citizens want, there we want to see our political responsibility, our police and gendarmen. This is the first and most important principle. Secondly, Of course, these reformatory approaches must also be implemented in the structure of the Ministry of the Interior. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Why are so many watchrooms closed?]] We also want to do this with regard to the State Police, with regard to the Special Institutions. The necessary structural reformatory approaches are coming, the negotiations are under way, and I am convinced that we are going a good and right way. It must also have an ideal and a contentive approach to our executives. A new security academy – I have this concept on the 10th. Feber is handing over to the Minister of the Interior – who will make a qualitative quantum leap – I think it is good that we strive for it – the executive will be able to do more in the long run than it is currently capable of. The official who is trained, the official who does not need to hide the international comparison, the official, who also has the information from the field of science, also from the field of research, will be the official who is most likely to get involved in his work. Border security – a clear, unmistakable word about it: The personal, technical and organisational orientation must have a Schengen standard. We don't have him yet. We are on our way there, and I am convinced that we will reach it. At this point, however, I also expressed my wish as the security spokesman of the ÖVP, which only the National Council in its entirety can fulfil: For this legislative period, we have agreed that the assistance of the German army remains on the Burgenian border. I believe that this assistance also makes sense beyond the year 1999, after the National Council elections, because I can see from the daily review as a citizen country that the 2,000 man federal army carries out their work in a form that I personally hope – and that is my request – that it will continue to last beyond 1999. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] To the Weapons Act: We have already said this in person to Mr Leikam and the Minister for the Interior, but I would like to place it here again and again: A clear no to the gun tax! There is no way past the No, we will not let ourselves down, and we will not be forced to do so. We believe that as long as we bear political responsibility in this coalition, there will be this no to the tax on arms. [[Abg. May. Stadler: What about the other proposals?]] One last point: The EIA is of the opinion that: Safety is not only to be extended to adults, but also to children. With our initiative for greater security, we also want to warn our children of the protection of children from sexual violence, of physical, psychological violence, of mental destruction. We will make it the focus of our political initiatives, our reformatory approaches. I believe that this is a way to go in a quiet conscience for the ÖVP and in the coalition.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e18015	The next speaker is Mr Anschober. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e18043	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kostelka! You almost provoked me to a remark now, but I can still hold it! [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: I can keep trying!]] We'll see! I am very glad that after the first two speeches, which were held at around 2.30 p.m. on the subject of security report, we had a very interesting time buffer – three hours, almost four hours have passed – otherwise I would hardly have found any words, because year after year I was plagued that I will always be put in fear and terror if I hear Mrs Partik-Pablé's contribution to the debate on security in Austria. After all, I learn for 15 minutes that Austria is a very uncertain country, where fear and terror are attached, where evil and evil lie in wait at every corner. Sometimes, after security-political debates, I have done so – quite honestly – that on my way home I was almost afraid in the pillar hall that there was a bad guy lying here. I am glad that this has calmed down a bit. [[Abg. Dr. Fuhrmann: There are sometimes enough Bösianers!]] – There is enough evil, that's right, but, Mr Fuhrmann, I think you mean quite another evil guy who's lying there. It was interesting to note that Mr Leikam's speech was opposed to that. First of all, what's the name of this pop group? – "First General Insurance" spoke about item 1 – the next one – even there was a television series that had to do with the color Rosarot – spoke the "rosarote Panther". I think both are not quite realistic. [[Abg. May. Stadler: A little patience! We'll be the first, I promise you!]] Interestingly, I have found the statement by Mr Kiss, who meant... Yes, Mr Haigermoser, we know your sense of humor. [[Abg. Haigermoser: The slug! You are the main actor in the Muppet show!]] We do not want to make this the subject of a security debate. – Mr Kiss said that a strong state was a fundamental right for citizens, and he wanted this form of fundamental right to be preserved on a sustainable basis. Mr Kiss! I am also in favour of ensuring that there is security. I believe that we have often proved in the Committee on the Interior that there are very constructive debates with us, but that as the sole fundamental right, which is worth protecting, which is sustainablely protected, I think it is missing. With the same priority and in the same breath, we should of course mention traditional fundamental rights in the field of civil rights, and in this respect the EIA has very little initiative in recent weeks and months and years – keyword: Pre-drive of noise attack and grid search – shown. A very negative development, which is very likely to have to do with this subjective sense of security, which has also been created politically, is shown in my view – and I also hear far too little political comment from the interior – by the trend towards private security services. There are now a number of communities where there is, so to speak, a special equipment through private security services, which are thanks to God anyway hardly any competence. The last case was described to me by Mr. Mayor Grossruck – now I almost wanted to say he is campaigning, but he is there, thank God – after which there is an initiative in Grieskirchen, there is in Upper Austria a vehement initiative of the liberals in Wels, also one in Gmunden. [[Abg. Dr. Fuhrmann: Anschober is also here and is still going to campaign!]] I think that this trend towards private security services is a very, very sensitive development. I do not think that this is a sensible way. I think it would be more useful to carry out reforms in the area of executives, as we have been discussing them for some time – the essential and necessary structural reforms, training reforms, further training reforms are clearly at hand – and to do some things in the direction of efficiency strengthening. Something has to be done here. But it is totally missing to privatize these security ideas and thus imitate some Bavarian models. It is only to be seen that the education rates are quite positive. That means under the line: On the whole, Austria is a safe country. Anyone who claims the opposite is panicking here and trying to beat political change out of this panic. An essential point where I am still very dissatisfied with security policy – which I believe is the biggest safety problem in Austria at present – is the major area of road safety, in which there should be some necessary initiatives in the near future. It is currently more dangerous in Austria to participate in road traffic than to go through a dark alley of Vienna. It is only once that the point of security is being focused on, and that this political step-by-step is statistically unmistakable and unfoundable. Another area I am addressing, above all, the Minister of Justice; we have already had strong contact in the form of parliamentary questions, is the major area of action of environmental crime. I believe that this issue is still underestimated by the executive. We wish ourselves a group of specialists in the field of environmental crime, who can work efficiently. There are quite a few approaches in the country's army commanders, highly committed people, but I believe that we should be even more committed to this and that there is a need for more competence, more support, more human resources and a better technology, because in this highly complicated and detailed matter of large-scale crime, specialistism is indeed needed. The same applies to the area of justice. On the basis of these answers, we know that in some areas there is partly an unsatisfying situation due to the very, very long duration of the procedure. I don't want to generalise this at all, but there are some cases that go too long. There are some solutions for this. One area is that of experts who are certainly the main cause. There are models here, for example, the award to German-speaking abroad. This opening would be an interesting fact for me to come up with accelerations. The second area is further specialisation in the field of justice. This has already taken place in the area of prosecutors in a few interesting steps. There are specialists, that was successful, there has been a professionalization. I believe that, although it is not easy to regulate, one should nevertheless make further professionalization in this direction. The third area in which I believe there is still some need for reform in security policy is the area of potential abuse of weapons. I am very glad that there have been some very encouraging statements on the basis of occasions. I am not concerned at all with the tax on arms, yes or no, I would have liked Mr Kiss to say clearly and clearly what he thinks is generally about the strengthening of the arms law. At the same time, we do not have to go so much into a dissent about the tax on arms as such, but I think it is actually a useful, important step to implement the British plans and some of the regulations already taken in Austria. This is more of a security, which is a step in the right direction, even though some forces in this House have no joy with it. The last point, which is very important to me, is the training and further training of the executive. Security work is becoming increasingly mobile, becoming increasingly differentiated, becoming increasingly difficult. This means that the employment situation for officials is becoming increasingly complicated. This means that the only opportunity in the field of training, in the field of continuing training, is simply to provide the official with an improved basic tool. I am glad that after some of the announcements which have led to the fact that the farm of Traiskirchen has almost been plowed in the last few years, so many groundings have taken place before each election, a real realistic announcement has now been made and it actually becomes serious. It is true, however, that the problem with the building alone has not been solved. I would find it exciting if there was a dialogue in this House in the near future on the forms of this training activity. This is essentially an extremely social communicative activity and ability to be acquired, with all the scientific approaches that can only be raised for this purpose. There are, for example, a number of studies on the current situation of teachers in the field of education and training, Mr. Minister, who will certainly know you in detail, which are not encouraging. I therefore believe that there is an absolute need for reform and an absolute need for a massive improvement in the hand tool, the conditions to be able to prove itself, for the individual officials. This applies, for example, in the area of conflict resolution models, political education, human rights education, i.e. in these three priority areas. In addition, I think that, due to the increased budgetary situation, the question of maintaining the current salary situation is a very problematic area, while maintaining the current overtime situation while at the same time reducing staffing. I don't think that's the right way. Three weeks ago, we tried to initiate a public discussion on the question of whether it was not – how should we put it? – I believe that there could be areas of income for the interior, which I consider to be in line with. I am addressing this sum of about 1.5 billion schilling from the fines which currently account for at least 80 per cent of the general budget; only 20 per cent of them go directly to the internal budget. These 1.5 billion schillings could be used very efficiently if they were intended, in our view for a massively improved education and training, for an expansion of traffic control – the ÖVP has always called for this; this would be a classic area for which the necessary resources could then be made available – and for a salary reform and overtime reduction, because, of course, the overload of various officials is of course also a problem, which sometimes also leads to overreactions. The last point and last one is Schengen. We have already discussed Schengen, the sensibilities and framework conditions very intensively and violently in this House. I do not want to repeat this now, because it is not the place and the time for it, but a very essential area for me is the question of information on political processes, developments, decisions at this European level, on this Schengen Agreement. I was almost thrilled when I received the explanations on Austria's accession and, as the last point, read item 7, which is called "The informing the Austrian Parliament". Finally, I would like to make a brief mention of this. I know that there are considerations about getting a cross-party decision on this point in the National Council, so I am not making any request yet. I quote from this Accession Convention or from the explanations to the Convention on the Accession of the Republic of Austria, item 7, which, as I have said, concerns the information of the Austrian Parliament: "From the Joint Declaration on Art. 132 The final act of the Schengen Implementing Convention is the obligation of the Contracting Parties to inform their national parliaments of the application of the SDP. Without prejudice to the decision of the National Council, it is proposed that this information be carried out in the form of an information at the respective meeting of the Executive Committee or that, after each meeting of the Executive Committee, a report be sent to the Assembly of the National Council." If the Minister of the Interior announces internationally that this is going to happen, I assume that it is also happening and that we can take a corresponding parliamentary decision in this House. We consider this to be an important step forward, that there is, in fact, a state of information on what is happening, at the Schengen level, in political, security-related development, for the Committee on the Interior, for the plenary. I would therefore urge that negotiations be continued and that the intention of perhaps formulating a five-party proposal in the sense of the Minister's announcement is actually realized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e18137	Mr Anschober. The last quote of Article 132 of the Final Act of the Schengen Convention is also contained in a statement of a motion for a resolution which you have not yet submitted. [[Abg. On top of that, we are still waiting for it, because perhaps a five-party request will come!]] He was handed over, but he was not read. I'm just holding this for the sake of completeness. Thank you. The next item is the report by the Federal Minister for the Interior. Schlögl. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e18167	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to thank you very much for the debate that has been debated. I believe that all five security spokesmen of the parliamentary parties have here made a clear commitment to internal security and have also made a clear commitment to the fact that it is important and necessary for the parties in Parliament to fight with full force and full commitment to ensure that the number of crimes, the number of crime cases in Austria continues to decline. Of course, the point of view of the individual security spokespersons was different, and I would like to try to address some of the things that have been raised here. Without a doubt, it is true – and I believe it is not a lobby, if one finds it – that, according to criminal statistics, the number of criminal offences in Austria has fallen significantly in recent years. Of course, we cannot compare these figures with those from the beginning of the 1970s, as Mrs Pablo did, because at that time there was a very different situation, a very different social situation. If one wants to compare them already, then one must fairly compare them internationally, then one would see that there has been a similar development in all the countries of the world since 1970 as in Austria. The fact is, however, that there has been a clear decline in all criminal proceedings in Austria since 1992 – and this is contrary to the international trend. Austria is the only country in Europe with a falling crime rate and an increasing education rate. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We can be proud of that. We can be proud, above all, of the work that our executive is doing, and I believe that there is a need for the political leadership of this country, but also for all the political parties in that country to fully support the executive in its work in the future. But I admit, of course, that we have some areas of problem and that there are certain developments in our country, which also make me a minister of the interior with concern. I would like to address three areas of problem which I see very critically and which I believe we need more action in the next future. The first problem is organized crime, the second problem is drug crime, and the third problem for me is violence in the family. When I go into the first, organized crime, all the international experiences and also our national indicators show that almost one third of the total crime that exists in Europe, but also in Austria, is due to the organized crime. That is why the fight against organised crime will have top priority for me in the next future as an interior minister, but also for all of us, I believe. We must also be aware, however, that we have no chance, by means of conventional means and by traditional methods, of becoming even nearer to this organised crime. As important and necessary as I believe that more guards, more police officers and gendarmen are on the streets, I also believe that the implementation of these necessary and important demands will not be achieved so that organised crime in Austria or Europe is somehow halted. This requires other measures, which I would like to present very briefly and superficially. First of all, I would like to thank Parliament very much for the opportunity of all the Members of the various political parties who have given the Austrian executive the opportunity to use new arrest methods in the near future. These new arrest methods serve almost exclusively to control organised crime in Austria. Whether this is a noise attack, whether it's a grid arrest, whether it's a hidden investigation, or whether it's a witness protection, all these are measures that I believe will give us the opportunity to take action against organised crime. In addition, I would like to announce that from October this year we will create our own OK card and file in Austria, and I hope that this will also allow us to take greater action against organised crime. We will relieve Austrian criminal officials of the fight against small crime in the next future. The security guard will take over this in the future, and I hope that this will increase the opportunity for our criminal officials to take action against culprits and, above all, against organised crime. It is also necessary and important to do everything against money laundering. In this context, there are very, very few convictions; I think two to three per year. We must together consider how we are doing effectively against money laundering through control, but also through other measures. I also say that I think this is the most important thing, because if we manage to reduce the profit in organised crime, then we have reached the crucial point. This is therefore the most crucial and important measure. The expansion of the Security Academy, the expansion of the training of the Austrian executive is another measure. Finally, we cannot resist organised crime unless we cooperate internationally in the fight against crime. That is why Europol is very, very important to me, and I believe that we will succeed in mastering crime here too. The next area, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Partik-Pablé, has not done this wrong, is drug crime. But – and I would like to say that clearly – we do not make the mistake of believing that drug crime can be combated by the Austrian executive, by the Gendarmerie and the police alone. I think the fight against drug crime is a social task and a social mission, and we must do everything we can to ensure that all social institutions, all social associations, together try to achieve success in this area. We have success in the fight against drugs. We are finding more and more drug dealers, we have a constantly increasing number of ads, and we are securing more drugs every year than last year, but the successes are still far too low. I believe that the new law on addiction, which puts the treatment and, above all, the penalty for the dealer in the foreground, will also be an important measure. This will perhaps enable us to become a little master of drug crime. The last point I would like to address in connection with concerns about crime development is violence in the family. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Please do not believe that most of the crimes, especially the crimes against body and life and the murders that take place in Austria, are committed by anonymous perpetrators to anonymous victims. Unfortunately, this is not the case. It is true that two thirds of the 170 murders committed last year were murders within the family association, and more than three-quarters of all murders that took place in Austria were related murders, which means murders in the immediate circle of relatives and acquaintances. This fact must encourage us to think and make us aware that there are a great many measures to be taken in this regard. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rossmann.]] In the family, yes. The phenomenon of combating violence in the family is a necessary measure, which is a social task. For this to happen, there is a great need for civil courage for each one of us, not just for the politician, but for every individual in Austria. What is even more important and necessary is a decisive approach to the abuse of children, especially against the sexual exploitation of children. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Last year, there were almost 800 ads. The perpetrators are likely to have been sentenced to a third to a maximum of half of the ads. However, carefully estimated dark figures say that there are not 800 crimes, but that at least 15,000 to 20,000 children are sexually exploited or abused in Austria each year. On the other hand, we must take decisive action together. We need to break through the wall of silence together, and with all the strength and all the violence – I say quite consciously – we must try to bring these terrible maltreatments to the fore in Austria. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Member of the Kiss Committee has addressed border security in detail. I believe that there is no alternative to border control in Austria and that our common mission must not be to build a new iron barbed fence on our 1 260 km long eastern border, but still very effective against the illegal human smuggling that exists across our borders, so that we can fight the organized crime, towing and organized human smuggling. This has become a billion-dollar business in recent years, and it is therefore necessary and important to exploit the tractor organizations that exploit people under the most unworthy conditions. This requires a certain amount of personnel, and I am glad that it has succeeded in ensuring, during the budgetary negotiations, that the corresponding staff will be made available over the next two years. I assume that the Austrian Federal Army will be active in the assistance of the Austrian executive beyond the year 1999. The Austrian Federal Army is doing excellent and important work along the Burgenland-Hungarian border, and I hope that this work will continue for a long time. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] We will still have sufficient opportunity in the Committee on the Interior to deal with the issue of arms law and the intensification of the Weapons Act, which comes with 1. In July, it entered into force to discuss with each other. I do not intend to introduce a legislative novel or a new law before it has not been discussed in detail between the political parties, but I assume that in some areas it is useful and necessary to intensify. Four points appear to me to be particularly necessary: First of all, I believe that the requirement of authorisation for weapons should be extended; for example, the use of shotguns and similar weapons; secondly, I believe that the protection of weapons should be more secure than before and that it should also be controlled - in this way accidents such as those in tweavers could be prevented - and thirdly, I believe that everyone who acquires a weapon should also receive information and training, and fourthly, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the psychological test already required for new weapons owners should also be introduced gradually for those who already own a weapon, because the experiences we have done so far show that about 10 to 15 percent of all those entering this test do not meet the necessary conditions for possession of a weapon. [[Abg. May. Stadler: I am for a registration obligation for kitchen knives!]] If this is true of the new ones, I say that this also applies to the old ones, and I believe that we should exclude risk cases. I know that this point is very controversial within the political parties, but we should consider this debate, and Parliament should have the courage and the power to vote on it. Mr Anschober referred to the issue of private security services. My opinion on this is very clear: One of the most immediate tasks of the public sector, the state, is to ensure internal security in this country. [[Abg. May. Stadler: But that's where you read our program design! It's inside!]] I have not yet read exactly the Liberal Party's draft programme, but if we were of an opinion on this issue, I would not be unhappy at all and in some federal states in which the Freedom Party wants to establish private security services I would save the discussion. [[Abg. May. Stadler: I recommend this!]] I strongly reject these private security services, because I believe it is a task of the Austrian state to ensure internal security. [[Congratulation with SPÖ and ÖVP]] It is different with regard to the municipal guards. They are a necessary and important addition to the Austrian executive, police and gendarmerie. I believe that there should be a much better and closer linkage than has been the case so far. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Security is a comprehensive concept that safety should include not only internal security, but also social security and, of course, road safety. Mr Anschober is right: We really need action in this area. Austria is a developing country in terms of transport safety! There are international comparisons which clearly state that Austria has the highest number of fatalities compared with all other European countries, and I think that is the case. I believe that we must take action in this regard. Mr Kukacka! In Austria, 150 traffic deaths per year come to a million inhabitants. In Germany it's about 120, in Switzerland it's almost 100 and in the UK it's only 64 – to give you some figures from the head. I think that shows that we are very uncertain in Austria. Last year there were 1,027 traffic deaths. Our common objective should be to put in place measures that we can achieve by the year 2000 to a minimum of 800 to 750. It would be very necessary and important for us to succeed. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] In this sense, ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to take note of the 1995 safety report. I would like to tell Mr Kier that this safety report was not adopted very late in the Council of Ministers, namely in April 1997. However, Mr Michalek and I can guarantee that the 1996 Security Report will definitely be decided in October in the Council of Ministers so that it can still be discussed in Parliament this year.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e18284	Mr Dr. Fuhrmann is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e18306	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am, if I am quite informed, the first one in the field of justice, who can say something about the security report. If I say'some', then this may be an exaggeration, so I correct that little of it can say to the security report, because if one has only five minutes of speaking time for a work of 317 pages, of which 70 pages dealing with justice, then one cannot certainly make the 'tour d'horizon', as one used to be, before the times of speaking time restrictions in this Parliament, but one must limit itself to a few short points. In principle, ladies and gentlemen, it is certain that justice and security executives, as far as the security of a country is concerned, are, for example – it may not be physically correct, but you know: not everything that is a comparison, I still use the expression – work according to the principle of communicating vessels. And that is certainly necessary if in a country the claim is to be justified that it is a safe country in which not only the security executive bears responsibility for it, but also, very probably, that part of the justice that has to do with the criminal policy issues. As a member of my group's judicial group, I am well aware that, in our view, the area of justice is very likely to contribute to the favourable situation of our country, which has already been established by some previous speakers, to being a safe country. It is not true in Austria that security executive officials are desperating because they are doing their job well or doing good, but on the other hand, they feel that all the criminals who are caught will be released from the population later by a plausible or negligent justice. That is not the case in Austria, and I think you can be glad about it. After these general remarks, I would like to focus on a particular point – I have taken the report with me so that I do not have to write out the figures – because it is a great concern to me: the problem of youth crime, which, even after this report, is not a problem, but is something that can be very positive and pleasing as an Austrian politician. If one reads that 3 335 young people have been legally sentenced in the year under review and then takes note that the approximately two-thirds of young people's convictions are less than they took place in 1988, then, ladies and gentlemen, that is, as I believe, a number that can hopefully vote on us, because in Austria we are not faced with what is a very, very serious problem in many other comparable countries in the world. In many other countries, there is an increasing youth crime, in view of which those responsible have to ask themselves with great concern: How should this continue when it becomes worse and worse in the area of young people? Now I could be stopped: It is clear that it has been two-thirds less since 1988, since in the meantime the age limit has been increased by one year. – That is true and certainly also leads to this exorbitant good result compared. But, ladies and gentlemen, it is also true that from 1994 to 1995, virtually no increase has been made among the identified suspect young people. That is precisely what I said earlier, because I am glad that we do not have to worry too much about youth crime. I think it is also very important that it has been excellent in the field of youth punishment in the field of extrajudicial compensation, and that with it - I must come to my conclusion - a very positive and good development can and should encourage us to carry out this extrajudicial compensation for the whole of Austria, and not just as an attempt to do so. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Right!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I know from the Federal Minister that this is already being done because it is a contribution to convincing the Austrians who have been victims of a crime that they are living in a country in which they can feel safe and where, in many areas, they are at least compensated for the damage directly and without great procedural effort by the remorseful and discerning perpetrator. Federal Minister! You know, but I would also like to add a record that my group will certainly give you all the support you need in this project. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e18343	Mr Lammer has now been reported to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e18365	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! This safety report, which is on the agenda today, could be seen on and on its own as a negotiating object with a historical view of crime, prevention, Enlightenment and criminal justice. It is a report on the year 1995 which will be discussed in 1997. I mean, that says everything, you don't have to lose words about it anymore. Federal Minister! However, you have already mentioned today that the 1996 report can hopefully still be presented and discussed to the National Council in October. Federal Minister! You mentioned in your statement a falling criminal statistics. That sounds good, of course, but I always claim, statistics can be seen how you want. Two events which I must point out have led to the fact that these statistics could be reduced at all. Mrs Partik-Pablé has already pointed out one thing, and one has tried to include offences involving a perpetrator who has committed several crimes as a crime in the statistics. Secondly, and you have confirmed this with your own statement, it has fallen since 1992. Since 1992, however, there has also been a new service system in the executive, thus providing at least one third to 50 percent less executive service during the night. If you get into this and see at the services on the spot – I am still on duty – that at least this number of ads occurs at night, then you know why the statistics are going back. The person concerned, the injured, is simply too laborious and too far to go to the next office and there, I say so, to show the small crime. We also have the same thing – and the Federal Minister knows it exactly – in the stress study, in this activity proof in which the executive has its activities to record its successes, which are summarized in the statistics. That's what you did. There is a statistics summarising the results of 1992, 1993 and 1994, and then, one year later, from 1993, 1994, and 1995. According to these statistics and after this stress study, more officials would have had to be recruited from the executive. And what have we got since 1995? – savings, more than 500 officials in 1995, more than 500 officials in 1996, and this continues in 1997. This has been decided by this government. What does this stress study say? – This study shows that, for example, there has been an ever-increasing number of administrative advertisements and organ punishments due to the laser gun and other technical aids that have been made available to God. However, it must also be taken into account that a so-called grinding system has been applied. This means that, at least in the case of the Gendarmerie, one has calculated the possible success of the officials per head, but was made more, no longer taken note of it. That is to say, the official who did a good job of foreign service was somehow punished – or his department – because the service was classified after this stress study. The other person who has made less has had the success of doing so anyway. All of this leads to such statistics being used to achieve, let us say, a useful result for the workforce. This decline in criminal statistics is due not only to the reason I have mentioned but also to other measures taken. The fact that statistics are understood in cases or that there is less crime is - I say quite consciously - also thanks to the executive, since it is really tireless in use and tries to help the citizen to his right. In this regard, one must praise the executive because it is really in operation day and night. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Minister! There is a lot to be said about your statements, and I hope that I will once have an opportunity to discuss them with you. I would like to say to the main points you have raised: If you propose measures that are really useful and lead to further progress for the executive, you can expect the support of the FPÖ.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e18425	Mr Platter is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e18446	Mr President. Mr. Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The 1995 Security Report has already been adequately addressed by my colleague Paul Kiss. I would like to use this debate today to address other current security issues. First of all, I would like to make a comment on addiction crime. If we look at the statistics in the area of drug offences, we note, in addition to the gratifying development, that overall crime has fallen by around 3.6 percent, that there is a very different development in the individual Länder. I would like to mention a few examples. In 1995, 95 percent more ads were paid in Burgenland than in 1994, in Upper Austria in 1995 24 percent more ads than in 1994, in Vorarlberg plus 21 percent more ads, but in Salzburg by 18 percent less, in Styria by 15 percent less and in Tyrol by 23 percent less. Now we are in danger of believing that addiction crime in the Burgenland has increased enormously and has fallen in Tyrol. However, I warn against this opinion because it is only about the commitment, but also about the number of general army officials working in the area of addiction. Therefore, Mr Minister, it would be interesting to find out what changes there have been in the drug addicts in the individual states from 1994 to 1995. Minister! In particular, I would like to refer to the stress study very briefly. I did not understand Mr Latter, I could not hear what he said. [[The speaker suggests that Abg. Lammer has sometimes spoken towards the government bank]] [[Intercession with the liberals.]] – No, it was very quiet, you couldn’t understand anything. [[Abg. Kiss: Nobel!]] This 1996 stress study shows that some federal states are disadvantaged in human resources. Not because I am Tyrolean, I take the Tyrolean example, but because the Tyroleans are disadvantaged in the field of safety. This stress study shows that in Tyrol 135 officials are not allowed to be present in Upper Austria 107 officials, 53 officials in Salzburg and 40 in Vorarlberg, while in other Länder too many officials are. Minister! I have already talked to you about this problem and I now ask you: Are you in favour of this load study, which has been prepared by the CCC, and until when is a human balance between the federal states possible? In addition, it is planned, and I am surprised that in 1998 and 1999 each of these will be saved. I am very concerned about these savings intentions in the field of executives, in the field of security. In my opinion, it will not be possible for these savings to be made in the area of the central offices, but these savings will be taken entirely by the Gendarmerie Posts, the guards, the transport departments and the criminal departments. Therefore, Mr Minister – and I believe that I am running open doors with you – it will be necessary to make every effort to avoid these planned job savings. In this context, I would also like to remind you that it has always been said that there will be no saving measures in the field of safety. Finally, I would like to come to an up-to-date issue, which has also been raised by Mr Leikam, namely the Waffengesetz. I take the press from the fact that the Minister wants to step up the arms law. I would like to give my personal opinion on this. [[Abg. May. Stadler: How about politics? The hunters and I would like to know how ÖVP thinks about it!]] – Mr Stadler! I cannot at the moment imagine an intensification of the arms law. On the one hand, I don't have much time to speak; please let me talk! – because the Waffengesetz was already substantially intensified and only on 1st. It has entered into force in July 1997 and has therefore not yet been able to gain experience with this law. [[Abg. May. Stadler: I no longer trust the ÖVP in this question!]] Secondly, because any further intensification of the Weapons Act promotes the step in the illegal possession of weapons. I therefore warn against such developments. If we intend to decide on a better defence of arms, I believe that would be possible in the way of the regulation. Mr Leikam. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of He was talking about a gun tax in connection with the dog tax. As mayor, I have to say: Of course, if it is a municipal tax, I warn against levying another tax, because that would only create a burden and, on the other hand, promote illegal access to arms. I would like to speak to the honourable Member. Leikam advises to take back the ambition in this regard and use the power for more important things, for example for the Security Academy, Europol, Schengen, organized crime, or perhaps also the power to use it for the renewal of citizenship, so that only those who rule German in word and writing can obtain Austrian citizenship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e18527	The next speech is by Mrs Gredler. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e18549	Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to refer to the chapter on youth crime – a sad chapter in that, unfortunately, God has increased the number of crimes in this area. It is interesting to consider why, at a time when youth unemployment is lacking, youth crime is increasing. I know from the European Union that there is a special programme against it, because it has been found that the time when one has completed school on the one hand, and on the other hand there is no job, is most vulnerable at all in order to get on the wrong path. That is why, I think, it would be really positive if there were to be some move in the sense of reducing youth crime. We talked about the courses. We Liberals imagine other ways of training. An event shocked me very much in the summer, and I thought we needed to do something urgently. I am therefore very glad, Minister of Justice, that you are here now. A child was tortured to death, and the one who tormented it was accused and punished with only five years in prison. – I almost think this is an "ochkasion", I must say that you only have to go behind bars for five years if you torture a child! This is such a misunderstanding that I think there is an urgent need for reform. If people who can't protect themselves – and that's the little stubble of three or four years old – are immersed in boiling water or are fractured into their skull and then locked up with a "discont price" of five years, then this is an absolutely unsustainable state! Maybe that doesn't bring these people to the raison either. I think there is definitely a need for reform. Another area, which, honestly, has also irritated me as a physician, is the area of rescue. Of the ten helicopters used for rescue tasks, six are no longer allowed to fly in accordance with EU Regulation 01/04/1988 as they are single-engine. It will take until 1999 until appropriate replacement devices can be delivered. My question is: How will the time be bridged by then if six out of ten rescue helicopters are missing? How will we save those who are in distress for whom we need not to solve the problem politically but immediately? In summer, there was an increasing need for Alpine accidents. I hope that, in the meantime, we can achieve a lot in this area or better support private companies. Now on the subject of Schengen, because my colleague from the Green Group, Mr Anschober, said that it is not really the subject of the debate. It is probably the subject of the debate because it has also been mentioned here. I would like to give you a report by Mrs Anne Van Lancker of 22. In January 1997, presented to the European Parliament. This Mrs Anne Van Lancker is a Member of the SPD, if I have this right in mind, and has written in her report, and this was also adopted by the European Parliament: It regrets that the Schengen Convention has created an imbalance by the strong emphasis on the policy of restricting immigration and safeguarding public order. It criticises the lack of transparency and democratic control regarding the Schengen Convention and points out that the monitoring of its implementation and the legal protection of citizens is not adequate. I already know that a little has changed since the Treaty of Amsterdam, and that the European Court of Justice now has access. But what we do not have is that Parliament has access. Neither the European Parliament has the opportunity to carry out control, nor the States concerned. With regard to the sensitive area of data networking, it calls for the inclusion in police data stocks to be restricted to the prevention of actual risks or specific criminal activities in accordance with international legislation within the Council of Europe. It points out that the inclusion of foreigners in SIS is designed to deny them access to territories, does not meet this criterion, and thus criminalises a whole group of people without being able to object. This is the opinion of the European Parliament, formulated by a Social Democratic Member. I just wanted to bring this to your attention. If one deals with data networks as carelessly as in Austria, one should know that there are more critical opinions in the spheres of influence of other countries. In this regard, I would ask you to allow Parliament to cooperate with these EU politicians. I am not concerned that we are not fighting international crime; that is also our concern. It's not about forming a clot, so to speak, so that the borders can't fall. On the contrary: I am a whole-hearted European, and I am excited when I can cross borders without having passport controls. Only: As is foreseen, and so to document the impossibility that those affected do not even have a right of action, that goes too far to me, and I hope for your understanding.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e18606	Mr Gaál is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary limitation: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e18627	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The safety report before us today presents an excellent witness to our executive. It is the merit of the executive officials that this country is so secure and that Vienna – and I am delighted to see it as a Vienna MP – is one of the safest metropolises. That is why I can only say to Mrs. Dr. Partik-Pablé: We really don't need any New York bonds. We do not want these security conditions, nor do we want the style and the kind of police work there! Ladies and gentlemen! The security report is a very encouraging proof that security policy in this country is implementing measures that have really taken action. We stand well and stand by every international comparison. There is a decline in crime development throughout Austria and higher levels of education, and especially in Vienna – and I am delighted as a Vienna MP – the number of criminal offences could be reduced by no less than 3.1 percent. At the same time, more than half of the criminal acts were clarified. There is a sharp decline in crime, at least by 4.7 percent, and in cases of default by 2.4 percent. Ladies and gentlemen! That's a very different picture from what Mrs. Dr. Partik-Pablé has been drawn. And that this successful path will be continued especially in Vienna, the major reform projects in the Federal Capital prove. The organisation of the Vienna Executive is fundamentally changed. Under the name "Commissariat new" a large, enormous efficiency shift is becoming broad. In future, uniform officials, i.e. security guards, advertisements and prosecutions, will be able to carry out themselves. They can also determine themselves and carry out the necessary consultations. And this guarantees rapid and streamlined administrative processes, avoids duplication, saves costs and also increases the motivation of officials. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In addition, there are also more police officers on the street, who are more in use on site. This reform launched in the previous year, which has so far been carried out in eleven district police commissioners, has produced positive results there and will be completed by the end of this year. The concept of Vienna is particularly concerned with the so important subjective security of the population that, wherever we have the opportunity, we can also improve, because the objective security, ladies and gentlemen, we can prove by figures and facts. All of this is documented in the safety report and has already been detailed here today. Ladies and gentlemen! Another important area of comprehensive security is, of course, civil protection. I do not think we should forget this area. Civil and self-protection means knowing how to protect and help yourself and other people in the event of disaster. Unfortunately, very few citizens still know how to cope with the worst possible risks until rescue and deployment organisations arrive without harm. This goes to work and to the activities of the flight rescue addressed by Dr Gredler today. I would, however, think that we should not talk about privatisation, but I have another proposal. We should work together to ensure that the flight rescue service of the Federal Ministry of the Interior is in no way delivered. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The interior area covers an important area of activity with the proven helicopter rescue flights and makes a significant contribution to direct assistance to the individual in distress. In the last 15 years alone, the Ministry of the Interior has saved 50,000 people, many of them from life-threatening situations. Of course, this assistance must be supported with the necessary financial resources. The countries have immense and massive advantages and benefit from it. They are also willing to make a higher financial contribution. They would provide these financial resources, and we should therefore thank not only pilots, emergency doctors, air doctors, medicaments and the responsible officials of the Ministry of the Interior, who are on duty every day around the clock, but also those responsible in the countries willing to work together with the Ministry of the Interior to ensure that this rescue service can continue to operate. Ladies and gentlemen! One sentence: We have put in place a far-reaching security package with very concrete reform approaches. We will work together to ensure that this successful path can be pursued so that the citizens of this country feel comfortable and secure and are happy to live in Austria and here with us in Vienna.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e18688	Mrs Mag. Mag. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Stoisits. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e18709	Minister of State Michalek! Mr Schlögl, Minister of State! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm not going to make a confession to public security, because I think that's a very hollow phrase. Is there a politician who doesn't worry about public security? The Federal Minister will forgive me, but that a Minister of the Interior in Parliament is constantly making confessions to public security, I think this is kind of superfluous. This is for me the expression of a particular thought, which you, as Minister of the Interior, are also showing and which has continued in the further remarks. I hate to notice this and I actually wanted to comment first of all on this safety report today, but your words have stirred me up. If you are actually talking about the security report and the public security commitment here for 15 minutes and in these 15 minutes you are able not to take the word "prevention" into your mouth once in connection with this security feeling or with the need for security, then there is something wrong! Then that is – Mr Federal Minister, forgive me if I say so directly! – a completely false understanding. Their understanding of commitment to security focuses primarily on law enforcement and, above all, on information quotas and not on the reverse approach to prevention. Mr Gaál spoke of protection, assistance and new ways of preventing crime. That would be what I would like from understanding. Of course, I am pleased about the positive education rate. I am much more pleased, however, with declining crime rates. Because of the fact that crime is falling in certain areas, these considerations on prevention and crime prevention are now particularly in place. Of course, security not only has an objective or an always objective element, but security and uncertainty are something quite subjective. The biggest threat that people in Austria have, and I am doing this very briefly now, is quite another. Investigations of the criminal sociological institute have shown that people in the first district of Vienna, where certain types of crime are most common such as burglary, have the highest sense of security subjectively. This is so – and I am saying this now also very simplified – because in Vienna I. there are a lot less poor people living and people there are afraid of things quite different or feel insecurity than in other areas of Vienna, where the rate of crime is objectively lower than in Vienna I. Therefore, this feeling of insecurity of people is another – one can also call it by name and not describe it – the fear of completely different elements is in the foreground than the fear of what we actually understand crime. People are much more afraid to lose their jobs than to become victims of murder or burglary theft. But there are very few valves to articulate this fear as well. This approach to crime or to the sense of security and insecurity is widespread in Austria, and this is not Your indebtedness or your responsibility alone, Minister, but this is also due to how the media and our society in general deal with this issue. That is why I think we should see this with a new glasses. I believe that these new ways of preventing crime must be at the heart of our efforts. To have something like a dialogue with the population about security is, as I believe, the challenge of the next millennium. For the fact that there have been many uncertainties in Austria in the past, there are facts. When we think about the nineties – now we are already in 1997, almost at the end of this decade – we see that what happened in Austria at the beginning of this decade – migration to Austria due to the opening of the east – is actually only comparable to the migration movements at the beginning of this century. That was a century event, and it also made it difficult. These difficulties are of course, and I do not want to ignore that in any way, real serious problems for the citizens. That's what we need to see. In Austria, one has gone the way to heat up real nuisances through populist, xenophobic tones. That this is not an appropriate means and not a suitable way to approach the problem of uncertainty or fear, you know, Minister of State Schlögl and also Minister of State Michalek. I know both of you too well for not knowing that you understand this as I do. But that you are consciously or unconsciously – if it is unconscious, then this is a real sin, but I do not believe it all the time – always goes into the trap of populist demagogy, or if it is consciously used as a tool, I cannot spare you this accusation. This summer, I read completely relaxed and calm Austrian newspapers and found quotations from you in them like: "It must finally end with the support of Bosnian refugees!" – They say it must finally be finished. That's... [[Interference of the Federal Minister Mag. Schlögl.]] That's how this is quoted in the newspapers, Minister of State. [[Federal Minister Mag. Schlögl: This is how Mrs Stoisits interprets it!]] – No, it was in the newspapers. That is absolutely not in line with my understanding of an interior minister. You, Mr Federal Minister, would be – I now have to speak in conjunction – the one in the Austrian Federal Government, which is not supposed to raise uncertainty, but rather, on the contrary, to fight fears and latent tendencies to make scapegoat policy, and not to play on this piano of demagogic populism. This is our main accusation to you as responsible for the objective but also the subjective sense of security of the Austrian population. As my colleagues also want to talk about other items on the agenda, only one last word to Mr Federal Minister Dr. Michalek. Dr. Michalek! Please do not hesitate to enforce the extrajudicial settlement, which, for me, represents the new model of conflict management par excellence, namely, without claiming the state clause, so to speak, to work with the relinquishing of the state criminal claim. Do not let the line taken by the Federal Ministry of Justice and you personally, even though, for example, Mrs Fekter of the ÖVP, as I have read in the newspapers, there is a tendency to go back from this path. I would like to see her as the chairman of the Committee on Justice and Citizens' Rights, and I would like to see her as the president of the Committee on Justice and Citizens' Rights, and so to speak, a speech of election for the Upper Austrian country election campaign, because she is the upper Austrian. But it'll be the 6th. October, and in the truest sense of the word color must be known regarding these new and modern methods. I do not think that any member of the National Council says: Priority for victim compensation. However, priority for compensation for victims also means relinquishing the state criminal claim and promoting these models. – What does "promoting these models" mean?- Oh, my God! – Introduction, away from the model, away from the attempt at legal standardisation! Mr. Minister! I mean, hardly a minister – apart from Mr Finanzminister – has such a large area of social policy relevant to you both. The fact that they can also be used in such a way that I do not think it is right, which is limited to the rights of citizens, has shown the discussion about the search for grids and the attack on noise. Federal Minister Schlögl! ==References== October Rasterfachtung, then I would like to be presented to the perpetrators at the latest on the anniversary of the letter bomb attacks. That's one of your main arguments. To do this, you can only say: We all have to work together!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e18764	The Minister of State Dr. Michalek has been reported to speak. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e18785	Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The focus of justice policy on internal security comes from the need for a determined fight against serious and organised crime on the one hand, but also from the need for the most meaningful perpetrator and sacrifice-oriented reactions in the area of mass everyday crime on the other. To the same extent, we need to ensure a rational execution, which is consistent with the safe custody of the criminal as well as with his optimal preparation for the release and reintegration into society. In everything we do in order to ensure internal security, we have a legal standard which, at least, meets the requirements of the European Convention on Human Rights and the case law of the Strasbourg bodies. These are indisputable objectives that sometimes conflict with each other. A modern judicial policy must therefore constantly make a fresh effort to reconcile these different objectives. As far as the fight against serious crime and organised crime is concerned, I would like to point out once again – I am sorry that my predecessor is just so busy – that their fight requires not only an extension of the legal and factual instruments available to the security and judicial authorities, but also an overall strategy with elements of technical, organisational, social and legal, especially administrative, prevention. This means that, although new forms of criminality are to be combated, they must not only be used in the fields of material and formal criminal law. Nevertheless, it was of course necessary that the fight against organised crime has received massive support from the legislator in recent years. I would remind you of the new criminal offences against money laundering and criminal organisation, as well as the new provisions on the levying, collection and decay of criminal profits, i.e. measures to be taken by international organised crime in its nerve, in its financial centre. I am not surprised by the fact that the 1995 Security Report shows only a small number of convictions according to the money laundering stock, when one considers that it has only been in force since 1994 and that only legal convictions are found in this report. However, I fear that since then it may not have become much more, which I would like to say above all, that these cases are very often foreign-related, and that legal aid is not only long-term, but also often administrative, but also – in the absence of comparable penalties – legal difficulties, but fortunately, at least the persecution of the criminal offence for money laundering remains. I would also like to remind you of the federal law adopted before the summer, which introduced special investigation measures to combat organised crime in StPO. In the course of the preparation of the law, the area of justice has always been a careful balance between improving police efficiency and ensuring the greatest possible respect for the fundamental and freedom rights of the individual. The law, in particular the multi-stage measures against any possible abuse, reflects this effort. It was therefore my particular concern to be able to appoint, in good time before the entry into force of the provisions on the approximation of data at the beginning of October, renowned and highly qualified persons as legal guardians, appointed as an independent procedural party for both the control of law and proportionality and the monitoring of the implementation of the special investigation measures. Ladies and gentlemen! International cooperation is of particular importance in combating the increasingly cross-border organised crime. That is why the Member States of the European Union have made greater efforts in the field of justice and home affairs cooperation and have drawn up a comprehensive action plan to combat and prevent organised crime, which was adopted by the last European Council in Amsterdam. This document covers not only 15 policy guidelines to combat organised crime, but also a detailed, 30 recommendations comprehensive, time-consuming action plan addressed to the Commission, the Council and the Member States themselves and addressed issues of prevention, the effectiveness of the legal instrument, the improvement of practical cooperation between judicial authorities, police and customs, the extension of Europol and measures to be taken by organised crime in its financial centre. The Federal Ministry of Justice is currently preparing for the implementation of several acts which have already been completed under the third pillar on the protection of the Community's financial interests, fraud prevention and corruption. In order to implement these conventions, the State of fraud shall be supplemented by all types of subsidy abuse and the existing criminal offences against civil servants shall also be declared applicable to the Community officials and to officials of the other Member States. Ladies and gentlemen! As far as dealing with everyday crime is concerned, I would also like to announce here that it should be improved in a modern way and that the possibilities should be extended. This includes the fact-finding of the out-of-court settlement, which has been successfully implemented for a decade, as well as the as soon as possible law-making of a criminal procedure currently under review in 1998. In the future, the diverging provided for in this Directive will allow for a simpler but better coordinated handling of less serious infringements of less dangerous offenders. The main focus is on the compensation of damages and the other interests of the victims, to which an ideal satisfaction belongs. With this StPO-Novelle, justice is not only in line with the unanimous resolution of the National Council of July 1994, but I think that those who know the draft will be right in giving me more to the victims of crimes than any judicial law in the second Republic. And in the last decade, we have just passed few judicial laws that have brought about greater consideration of the interests of victims and a significant improvement in the situation of those injured by crime. However, regardless of this step-by-step stronger victim orientation of criminal law and criminal proceedings, the state aid measures to victims of crime still seem unsatisfying in the treatment of material and immaterial consequences. However, the possibilities of criminal proceedings are limited. Rather, there will be a need for determined joint efforts by the federal and state governments to set up and promote more victim assistance and victim advice facilities. The first step could be to strengthen the coordination and networking of existing institutions, in particular in the fields of youth welfare and the advice of victims of sexual offences, which may be devoted to legal and psychosocial advice of victims of crime and to the follow-up of proceedings by a trusted person with the necessary contacts with the courts and prosecutors. In this context, the draft criminal procedure for 1998, which is under review, provides that the judicial body shall support the additional revenue to be obtained from the payment of fines to be made in the distribution proceedings. In particular, support will be given to those who are devoted to the care of minor victims or persons who have been injured in their sexual sphere. Our further reforms in the field of victim protection range from the follow-up of proceedings and advice during and after the end of the criminal proceedings to the procedural status of the victim in the overall structure of the criminal proceedings. The related structural issues, which are particularly relevant to the issue of procedural protection and enforcement of victim rights, must be dealt with in the light of the now due re-design of the criminal procedure. Within the framework of this project, which I am pursuing with the highest priority – a draft discussion is to be presented about the end of 1997/98 – we believe that further improvement of the status of the injured person will be achieved by granting further information and party rights to the victim – beyond the rights of the private party under the current legal situation. A few words on another reform project in the field of justice. Taking into account shocking cases of sexual abuse, in particular of children, not only domestically, abroad, but also in view of the need for reform, which is at least going back to the last major change in sexual criminal law in 1989, I have convened at the beginning of the year a multidisciplinary working group whose aim is to develop a basis for a comprehensive renewal of sexual criminal law. More generally, sexual self-determination rather than a no longer modern moral concept is to be applied. In particular, an association of the crimes committed by sleeping in and other acts of fornication to the unmistakable, associated with penetration, is intended with a view to ensuring that such penalties will also be more severe. In addition, accompanying areas, such as the question of limitation in the event of sexual abuse, are also discussed. When considering all for and against, it seems to me that there is a great deal to be talk of extending this limitation period beyond reaching the age of old age. Finally, a few words on crime victims and fear of crime in international comparison. The final report of an international crime victim survey carried out in 1996 has just reached us. If the results are summarized, it can be seen that Austria has a relatively low crime rate and, together with Finland, the lowest number of victims of crime. Similarly, the fear of the respondents to become victims of a delicate attack in the coming year is similar. I believe that, in order to ensure fair and complete information to the public, such good news must also be proclaimed and that they must also be included in the considerations on a balanced criminal law policy. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e18878	Thank you very much, Minister of State. I am speaking now to the honourable Member. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e18903	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The task of politics is to ensure the security and stability of Austrians. As my previous speakers have already commented in detail on the statistics of the Security Report, I would like to say a few words about the Schengen Agreement. I am convinced that the implementation of the Schengen Agreement and its increased international cooperation and the introduction of an automated search and information system are an important step towards increasing the security of individual citizens. The removal of controls at the EU's internal borders means a relief for the individual EU citizen: no obligation to identify, no visa requirement, no other border controls. However, this simplification must by no means be a relief for the breakers of law. The future cooperation of the police authorities of the EU Member States in the form of joint contact services and liaison officers can be more targeted and effective than ever against organised crime. Organized crime is the form to be combated primarily as it appears even more strongly since the opening of the East and threatens to spread continuously to all areas of crime. The figures shown by the 1995 Security Report, which is under discussion today, show a general decline throughout Austria, both in the area of crime and in the field of crime. The statistics for the country Upper Austria are particularly encouraging: While overall crime has increased from 1993 to 1994, from 1994 to 1995 there has been a decline of 5.9%. As an Upper Austrian Member, I am proud that the Austrian executive works extremely well; for this I should like to express my special thanks. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] The Upper Austrian State Councillor Achatz, who announced in May of this year in Upper Austria that 50 000 Albanians were collapsing in the Czech Republic and that the "security hole" of Mühlviertel threatened an Albanian invasion, caused only an insecurity of the population with such statements and made them afraid. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] However, despite this obvious panic, I am firmly convinced that illegal border crossing will decrease by strengthening the eastern borders of Austria. Of course it is true that the number of illegal border workers has almost doubled compared to the first half of 1996; towing is still a very serious problem. But half of these were Romanians, the other half came from Ukraine, from Poland, or there were Czechs. But it was not a single Albanian among the seizures. Ladies and gentlemen! As a representative of three border districts, I welcome the tougher measures taken by Austria by the use of the border army of the Austrian Federal Army to achieve the Schengen maturity in the last two years. This border protection does not require any additional support from the Federal Army, as recently demanded by the State Councillor Achatz for the border section on the Czech Republic. We know that, in the course of the implementation of the Schengen Agreement, the controls at the German-Austrian border will be carried out on 1 January. ==References====External links== Finally, on April 1, 1998, it was completely eliminated. [[Prolonged calls to the liberals.]] There is a similar agreement between our Minister of the Interior Schlögl and the Minister of the Interior from Bavaria, Beckstein. In my opinion, the customs guard is an important part of the Austrian security equipment next to the Federal Army. In the recent past, customs guard has repeatedly been able to draw attention to itself through spectacular successes in the field of smuggling. The mobile monitoring groups are jointly involved in the monitoring of animal transport, the transport of radioactive material through Austria within the framework of their working directives. However, these tasks are far more difficult in the framework of mobile controls since the borders have fallen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Security is a fundamental need for citizens. In future, let us also shape our policy in such a way that we can meet this need. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e18975	The next speech is by Mr Scheibner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e18996	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! I don't know how many election talks it was. Your friend! It would have failed, instead of criticizing the Council of State of Achatz, who cannot listen to the fact that the real problems are also being dealt with by the Upper Austrians, because I believe that this is not quite the way you see that the border with Bavaria is now being opened, the problems at the border with the Czech Republic are being solved. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: You can do it to him!]] You have linked this, but it is not quite understandable what one should have to do with the other. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I also think the comparison is a bit strange that the German army is not necessary for border use at the northern border of Austria, because there are only Romanians and no Albanians coming anyway. I believe that we should look at this soberly and that we must already be clear that the border sections against the north and east, which are not monitored, are, of course, increasingly being used by tractors in the future in order to bring illegal immigrants to or through Austria. This will be met even more in the future in Upper Austria. There would have been a failure to consider how we can achieve an extension of border controls in this problematic national defence budget, which your Minister has presented, so that the upper Austrian borders are also safeguarded. This would be useful and would probably also be much better for election success in Upper Austria. It is much easier to judge people who do not have a mandate in this House here at the speaker's desk. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It's usually like this: The security debates are praised, how good... – What? [[Abg. Leikam: But this has already been done with the liberals!]] [[Abg. Leikam: That you have come over people who were not there.]] - Well, maybe you'll give me an example. But I'm sure you haven't heard of us, Mr Leikam. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You also said how good it is in Austria and how safe everything is compared to other countries. One can quite rightfully give you – thank God – that it is worse elsewhere, but I ask: Is it enough if we find out today, or should we not consider what problems are really up-to-date and burning and how to find solutions to these burning problems? Ladies and gentlemen! One example is youth crime. In a few remarks here, this problem was a little beautiful, we are better off than other countries. This cannot be a calm for us, however, especially in the field of youth crime, because contrary to the "normal" trend, which is also not so rosy – it is a constant up and down, but on the whole we are moving at a high level in crime – we have seen a 4 percent increase in youth crime, ladies and gentlemen! In the context of the discussion on the questions: How do we train job seekers? What do we do with school dropouts? What do we do with Maturants? the President of the Jugendgerichtshof, Dr. Jesionek, said: Youth unemployment and the lack of orientation of youth resulting from it is the source of increasing youth crime. I believe that these 4 per cent are already an indication and should be an alarm signal that, in conjunction – this is not only a question of the Minister of the Interior, but also of the Minister of Justice – we are setting up new measures with the school centre, the social resort, the youth resort, in order to work against this problem of youth unemployment, against the increasing lack of orientation, and thus indirectly against an increase in youth crime. I miss the combination of these concepts and these ideas. These would be important approaches that we should also discuss today. In this context, the problem of drug crime is also becoming more and more acute. I am really opposed to the fact that in Austria there are still social groups that are impoverishing the problem of drugs, which say that this is not a question of crime, but, at best, a health problem, and that are watching more and more dealers – partly in front of the police’s eyes – do their business quite openly and more and more young people move into the deadly cycle of drug addiction and drug addiction. Ladies and gentlemen! There is also a serious increase in the crime of morality, especially in the case of fornication with unmistakables – plus 25 percent! But now let no one come again and say, That is a question of higher education, there are simply more offences known. In this context, too, I am missing the combination of joint measures to protect our young people, our children from this seeming ever-increasing timeliness. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] It can't be that there are infrequent sentences for children to be damaged for their entire lives, while the perpetrator may be in freedom after a year or two years and may continue to follow his strange nature. Minister of the Interior! What about foreign crime? In fact, there was no breakthrough either. They say again and again that guest workers are not the problem group, so is it. It's the "criminal tourists" as you called them. But you have also claimed that there is now a more restrictive immigration policy. So there should no longer be those "tourists" to this extent. Nevertheless, foreign crime has not done much: 20 percent share of total crime, 30 percent of crime. So even there, the situation has long been not as rosy as you always show it. [[Interference of the Federal Minister Mag. Schlögl.]] Minister of Justice! The police complain again and again, they arrest illegal, criminal foreigners – and the next day they will be waving at the door again because no arrest warrants will be issued. These are the problems that burn under the nails especially here in the Eastern Region and in Vienna in particular. Finally, Mr President, the question of border use, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Now we read in the paper that border use is being expanded in cooperation with the German army. We have seen a beautiful helicopter there – costs: 180 million schilling! I hope that your resort will also contribute a significant part to these costs, so that, as in the past, everything will not have to be taken over by the defence resort alone. But we also lack a connection between the two resorts. There is still the provision of assistance, and you still believe that you are bringing some thousand official gendarmes to the border in the long term. We do not even know exactly how long the problems at the eastern border will last. We all hope that at some point the situation will be such that we can pull these gendarmes off again. Where do you want to use it? Where do you want to move them? – It would probably be better to professionalise the German army and also to define this commitment as a task of the Austrian state defense and to increasingly allocate the funds you are applying for to the national defence budget.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e19097	The next speaker was Mrs Hlavac. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e19118	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I was somewhat surprised that Mr Stoisits so vehemently attacked the Federal Minister for the Interior. I am aware that an opposition politician does not give any praise, but I think these attacks were unfair. The Federal Minister has explicitly said that security is not only a matter of security against crime, but also of social security, social security and conflict management at all. I think that the Federal Minister is very well aware of this problem. However, he is responsible for combating crime, and therefore his statements focus primarily on it. He also raised very important questions by mentioning the three main areas of his work: Community policy, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, economic and These are the really serious issues we need to deal with. Of course, it is also important to deal with the prevention of crime. There are models from abroad and ideas about this. We will have a discussion on this. It is also quite clear that we must maintain and develop the social environment for a peaceful society and ensure that the roots of crime, as far as possible, are actually combated, therefore also in connection with youth crime. It has already been said about job security, the training of young people. It is a very central question that young people know that they have a place in society, that they are recognized as a person and important. I therefore believe that we are well aware of the whole problem, that we have it in mind, and that we are trying to take action in a wide range of areas to combat crime in order to ensure security in all areas. I would like to talk about the violence in the family, which I think is very positive: There has been a project for some time – introduced by Mr Lösnak, the Federal Minister for Social Affairs and Social Workers of the Women's Homes in the Police School, which has continued to be his successors. In the beginning, there were prejudices from both sides, but they could be reduced very quickly. This cooperation is very important for both sides and, as far as I know, it is now also very much appreciated by both sides. I know this above all from the social workers who say that the relationship with the police has improved considerably, that much more understanding comes from the police on the part of women with their problems in the family and that, in the opposite case, the social workers see better how the problem for the police is. I would also like to say in this context that it is very important that there are a lot of police officers, as is already the case. On the street you can see a number of women who are very energetic, very self-confident and do their job. This has had a very positive effect on the climate in the wax tubes. There are also many young ambitious women who are continuing training, namely the training of officers. I think this is very, very positive. I would like to say a few words on the extrajudicial balance of action, because this issue seems so important to me. He has proved himself very well among the young people and will now – I am convinced – be taken over as a whole in adult criminal law, not as a pilot project. I really believe that we should not let it down, but we must make the necessary legal provisions. For it is much better for the victim to learn the satisfaction when it is said that there is a guilty behavior and is tried to make the act right. This is more for the victim than for the satisfaction of the idea of revenge, and this is also a way for the perpetrator to deal with what he has done and to make amends. Finally, I should like to make one more motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mr President. I would like to add this request to the debate, and I would like to conclude by saying that the safety report, although perhaps not at the very last stage – I have heard that we will soon be given the report for 1996 – represents a very important document for our work and offers many suggestions for us. Because we all want our country – internationally – to become even safer.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e19195	The motion for a resolution that has just been read has been properly tabled, is supported accordingly and is therefore under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Barmüller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e19220	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been said several times today that the safety report has a highly descriptive character, which is very limited only to the statistical character. I have the impression that this is also true in the field of environmental criminal law, both as regards the report of the Ministry of the Interior and of the Ministry of Justice. This report is only a basis of work. I would like, in fact, to say everything to the security report – but not yet by everyone – only one area which you, Minister of State, have addressed directly: the protection of victims. You have said that this is a topic on which you work with the highest priority in your ministry. It was also the theme of the 13th century. Austrian legal days. And not for nothing, it is a topic that separates the spirits very strongly. I would ask you, in the context of the preparation of a proposal, to pay particular attention to the fact that, although it is very popular to speak directly of victim protection, it is a matter of involving someone in a concrete procedure or involving him there, of giving him information rights, which is likely to be a damaged person, a person who has fallen victim to a particular crime or offence, but that not necessarily the accused who is sitting in court in this trial was the perpetrator. This is something that is generally forgotten in the discussion, as I think it is. In particular, your proposal will be considered by the liberals to be very precise as to whether the accused rights are still preserved. For it must not be so that the desirable undertaking to provide social support to persons who have become victims of a crime is practically at the expense of the rights of the accused. In our view, of course, the accused must first and foremost be assured that the criminal proceedings will be dealt with quickly and that his guilt or innocence will be the primary issue there. I therefore think, as a suggestion to the report, that it would be good to extend from the figures not only to the budget, but to the extent that the average compensation is equal to the number of victims who receive something, and in particular, since it is not only material demands, as the care of those persons, that need psychological assistance. In particular, if crime victims are to play a greater role in your ministry in the future, it could be an important basis for this report to be read more about. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e19260	Mr Puttinger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e19281	Mr President. Minister! Since most of my previous speakers have moved in the field of the interior, I would like to deal with the area of justice a little bit. As gratifying as the decline in new listings is – more than 4 per cent – more than 7 000 cases, and more than 6 per cent in cases with unknown perpetrators – is the fact that so many procedures are still taking place over several years, Mr. Federal Minister. Of the 7 334 cases taken over, 6,630 came from 1994, 510 from 1993, 194 from 1992 and earlier. In all our areas of life, more efficiency, speed and red tape are required. These terms must also apply in the judicial system. I believe that a rapid reduction is urgently needed. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Kiermaier.]] Next thing I want to talk to the courts. In addition to a 1 per cent reduction in the new criminal case, a total of 144 512 criminal proceedings occurred, of which 70.7 per cent fell within the jurisdiction of the district courts. These are, after all, more than 100 000, exactly 102 195 cases. Ladies and gentlemen! This number clearly documents the importance and the need for our district courts. I call on you, Minister of State, to do everything possible to obtain the District Courts. Right cannot be a question of distance. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Close-up to justice is more than a spokesperson. Close-up services in the field of justice are more than one day of negotiation per week. Close-up services in the field of justice are more than basic book extracts by computer. Let's get this little mosaic stone of local supply for our rural infrastructure! I would ask you, Mr Federal Minister, to include these aspects in your considerations. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As a third priority, I would like to deal with the detention. It is positive that it is shorter than in recent years. The fact that the number of persons arrested in detention increased by 7.2 percent in the year under review is unfortunate – from 8 600 to about 9 300. Overall, the level of detention in Austria has steadily decreased in the international comparison in recent years: from 102 prisoners to 76 in 1995. I would now like to make another point about the serious differences in practice with regard to detention. I would like to point out that this chapter in the report is, in turn, almost identical with the corresponding chapters of the safety reports of the past years and refers to 1991. And, as in all previous reports, a completely different application of the arrest will be visible in the four criminal courts. Unfortunately, no new and current figures have been added this year. The study shows that the probability of entering detention in Vienna is four times as high as in Innsbruck. The average term of detention is seven weeks in Graz, while it is 30 or more percent higher in other cities. It cannot be measured by two measures in the case law! Will the arrest in Vienna be more rigorous or less in Graz? . I really ask that we get more uniform values in this respect in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As the fifth and last point, I would like to address a subject that has already been discussed by several speakers, namely the problem of drugs. Especially in my federal state, a decrease in the number of ads under the drug law - 18.6 percent, which has already been said - has been recorded, but I think the fact that the number of crimes between the 14 and 19 years of age has increased dramatically. If it were 53 young people in 1994 who were diagnosed as suspects of crime, it was 85 young people in 1995. This is an increase of 60 percent. For the 16 to 18 years old, the number of 18 suspects rose to 44 – an increase of 144 percent! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! These are alarming and alarming figures. If we do not try to protect our youth from the risk of drugs, I believe that our society is facing a serious threat. I cannot therefore agree with the safety report on one point, namely, if it is stated on page 168 that "no serious changes" are observed when considering the ads paid in Austria under the Drugs Act by age groups. In my opinion, it is not about the number of ads – we must be honest! – but it's about the number of actual occurrences, it's about the events, it's about the suspects, and these figures are much higher in their diversity than the number indicated here. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We from the EIA will do everything we can to protect young people from these dangers. I would like to say that where the family is intact, where there is concern for young people, the risk of drugs is much lower. Finally, I would like to refer very briefly to the statements made by Mrs Stoisits and also to those made by Mr Barmüller. For me – and I believe, also for the ÖVP – the protection of the perpetrator is very important, but last but not least, the protection of victims is important.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e19366	Mr Dr. Ofner is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 8 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e19387	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I don't have today's "curies", as one or the other might believe, but that of the 14th century. August, and that's what I want to deal with. [[Abg. Wallner keeps an issue of the "Kurier" up to date.]] There is nothing about good press work; Editorial conclusion is early, dear colleague. So I don't use anything if I drop something now, because it's no longer coming in. Note that in the future, maybe you'll be in the newspaper more often. But you can read it. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But I would like to deal with the statements made by those previous speakers who welcomed the fact that crime is going back, especially drug crime in some areas. Please don't let us lie to ourselves in the bag. I quote the "Kurier" of the 14th century. August. That's what it says, among other things: Statistics lie at times. You think so? "Last year's report of the interior resort was around 24 percent more ads than in the previous year because of addiction offences. Drug crime has risen at first sight. But this number is deceiving. In fact, organized drug crime is falling." And this must now be broken on the tongue: "1996 saw 12 percent fewer drug dealers than 1995." That is, not crime is going back – we are getting fewer, and we are already looking forward to the fact that crime has fallen. It is not the case in Austria that one could say that drug crime is exploding. But there is no reason for Euphoria to hear them ring through. I'll stick to the article. The new "minister of Justice" Hostasch is now dealing with the fight against drug crime. – I can only say once again, just as I had already expressed it in the addiction control novelle: It seems absurd to me that the law of addiction at that time is now, at one time, a "supply law" and that a law on serious crime, with a maximum penalty of 20 years, is no longer a matter of reference to the Minister of Justice, but to the Minister of Health. It was also prepared by the Minister of Health at the time. This is exactly the optical and political degradation and romanticization that we all have to fight and fight together. This does not belong to the health resort, but it belongs to the judicial community! This belongs to the professionals there and not to the health care staff in a place that has nothing to do with it. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That is why there is also such a conclusion as to make the best of the woman's Minister. She says it is not a matter of dealing with small dealers and not trying to make these things firm, to fight them, but rather to concentrate on organised drug crime: You have to take care of the big fish and not the small ones. – The police officers know that, the prosecutors know that for a long time, the judges know that! But unfortunately, the big fish do not insist on going to the fishing or net. All those who have been dealing with this problem for a long time and more professionally know for a long time that drug crime, like any other form of crime, has to be fought on a sustainable basis at all levels. It must not be felt to the subordinate dealer that, according to the intentions of the now responsible Mrs Health Minister, no one cares about him anyway, all hunt for the big fish that is so hard to catch, so that he can weigh more or less legitimately. There is a need for appropriate action at all levels. Please do not vote in favour of the opposite, ladies and gentlemen, by a non-responsible minister, who has only formally come into this matter. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I am right to give previous speakers who have taken the view that the rate of crime among the host workers is no higher than that of the Austrians. No doubt that's right. Nevertheless, far-reaching areas, especially the criminality of the factory, are firmly in foreign hands. Some numbers, you can already read them, speak a very clear language. It is indeed true that in Austria of 100 prisoners 24 Foreigners – in Vienna in the legendary Grey House even a third – and 41 percent of all prisoners in foreign provenance in Austria – are exactly 41.3 percent. So a little bit more loosely spoken... [[Abg. Wallner shows an issue of the "Kurier".]] You can read it. Is it true? Is it really printed? - Wonderful. Thank you. That means it's already in the paper, and what's in the paper is always right. That is, 41.3 percent, almost every second arrester, is foreign provenance. Throughout Austria 74 languages are spoken in the judicial institutions, 74 languages! This shows a clear picture. Please calculate what this means for maintaining the order in the institutions, which is a burden for the staff there, for each individual judicial guard, if there are no numbers of prisoners talking in all possible languages, and no one knows what they are saying, languages for which there are not even interpreters in Austria who deal with it. Side by side: What this costs when, for example, criminal proceedings have to be carried out for seven, eight, nine accused five or six interpreters - one for the Russian, one for the Serbian, one for the Romanian, one for the Czech language and so on - we do not need to ask ourselves what wealth it costs. That's actually a very high sum. I would like to address a small problem in this regard. I'm missing in the... [[Abg. Sweamlein: What is the name of the solution?]] The solution means letting in fewer criminals and moving more criminals and not feeding them through with us. We need to be a little rigid. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Son of a bitch: If we've already caught her!]] I'll tell you right now, wait a little bit! There is no point in transporting someone from the country because of a criminal act when he comes back to the other border, because the executive with its weak forces does not have the situation under control, can not even have control of it. [[Abg. That's not the problem!]] I'll tell you if the red light doesn't apply to both of us anymore, from my practice cases, how people get pushed out of a door and back in the other door. Let's tell you about people who know a little bit about it! I wish myself something: I hope that there will finally be a relapse statistics which will also be published. I remember ten, twelve years ago, there hasn't been one. I tried to introduce her. They tried to put them on their feet. I am asking about the fate of these efforts, I am asking if there is a serious setback statistics at the moment, and I recommend that they be published next time in the safety report.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e19490	The next speaker is Mr Kiermaier. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e19511	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! ==References== I do not want to repeat any speakers on the same subject; I really want to take a very short look at it. I am pleased about the international assessment, the top values we have received in the fields of safety and education. And I understand that the opposition is criticizing, of course. That is the fundamental right of the opposition. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: I don't talk to the hostess either!]] That is how I see it; I take notice of it. We are not going into euphoria, not a question, but we are glad about it and we are glad that it is doing so. I would like to congratulate my Minister of the Interior on his success. At the same time, I use this opportunity to mention also his predecessor Löschnak here – so that the impression does not arise: from the point of view, from the point of view – because it has ultimately laid the foundation for current policy. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you of the following: The discussions on the composition of posts, the sector and so on have moved this House very much, and in particular representatives of the opposition have acted as if the security would no longer be given at a time. – Nothing happened, the thing works perfectly! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If you look at everything on the spot, then you will see how good it was and how unwarranted all those accusations have been. Look at the clothing, the armor, the facilities in the posts: All these are successes that you can enjoy. In any case, we are simply and simply happy about this, I would like to have said this again. A look into the future: Ladies and gentlemen! Today's "curer" says that fines are increased sensitively for lawns. I think this is a very, very good measure. The lawns on the highway, the right-wingers are becoming a disease lately! When I went to Vienna last time, 14 cars overtook me on the right. This is starting to become a cavalier crime, just like ignoring the lock lines! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Turn right!]] I drove my pace. Ladies and gentlemen! However, I would also like to take up what the Federal Minister has said in connection with the municipal guards. Once again I was very pleased that he so positively assessed these parish guards for the future. Ladies and gentlemen! I am here – like all of them – to express my thanks to the executive officials, to the national army commanders, but also to the staff in the ministry. There, too, a lot of work is done in bonework, and that is also the foundation for this success. I am proud that these seven years in which I was able to vote in the House on the security policy under the Social Democratic leadership have been seven good years for security in Austria! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e19572	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e19594	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Security Report deals exclusively with money laundering in the field of economic crime. I think there is a deficit. Certainly, professionally organised tax evasion should also be part of the report, or, for example, securities fraud, credit fraud, property fraud. There's still a lot more. Minister of the Interior! I think that the human occupation of the economic police is obviously insufficient. In this context, I agree to focus your appreciated attention on some of the transactions and business operations in Upper Austria, which, as I think, are also of importance to you. I am now speaking of the WTK, Wolfseck-Traunthaler Kohlenwerks GmbH. This is a mining company in which in 1994 a contract was concluded with the Upper Austrian power plants concerning coal deliveries to Timelkam. This company – which has been identified by the opinion – could no longer be managed economically. This company was led into liquidation, and the one who has been the managing director of this company since 1985 until then was also one of the two liquidators. In the course of this liquidation, some basic sales, however smaller, were carried out on the total size of the plots, so that about 500 hectares remained with this liquidated GmbH. The liquidation balance sheets, the assets and liabilities assessments, seem to me to be not quite coherent and not entirely correct personally. I doubt the amount of fixed assets and liabilities, I doubt the amount of calculation of the plot values, and I doubt the measurement of the provisions – keyword: Mining damage – as well. That means: The assets were accordingly low and the liabilities were accordingly highly rated, so that in the end there was a liquidity capital of 16.7 million schilling. Then came an offer, namely the former managing director and liquidator himself offered to buy this liquidated company, the Wolfseck-Trauntaler Kohlenwerksgesellschaft, and he also received the supplement. Obviously, it packed the miner's fever again; that could be it. It should be noted that mining can obviously be re-run economically. [[Abg. Kiss: Mr Hofmann! I ask you, what does this have to do with the security report?]] [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: This is economic crime!]] The fact, Mr Internal Minister, is that I have documents on the fact that, during the liquidation with the liquidator Dr. Schabel, an offer was made for a relatively small part of the area and the double, when it finally corresponded to the sum fixed at the purchase conclusion. The offer amounted to around 40 million schilling for 100 hectares of this area, compared with the purchase of this company by 20 million. But not enough things: Mining promotion – and that is why mining seems to be particularly economic and useful – is to be found in the contract of assignment for the period 1996 to 1998. And in order to be able to actually operate the mining, there is also a need for some customers, and these customers also exist. There are deputates of around 2,000 annual tonnes for the former WTK employees, who are now promoting the company that has replaced the shares of the company. This commitment, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, was not taken over in the purchase of the shares from ÖBAG Mining Holding, but this commitment remained with ÖBAG, and the Schabel participating company, the buyer, was instructed to comply with this obligation or delivery. Apart from the fact that there are many other possibilities for stotter reduction starting with filleting and so on...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e19636	Deputies! A certain connection with the subject matter of the safety report should be gradually identified. I would ask you to pay attention to this!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e19659	I allow myself to present the context [[Intrusion of the Abg. Copper]] I have spoken about the fact that human resources in the field of economic police are too low and I assume that it would make sense to pursue various business operations on the part of the economic police. [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] There are still many, many of the things that are very worth mentioning in this context, for example, the fact that part of the area has been sold by about 70 000 square meters to the Austrian Railway History Society by 1 s. The decommissioning of the track is mandatory with the decommissioning or sale if there is no need for a track system and its use no longer exists. Now the ÖGEG, the Austrian Society for Railway History, is an association, owner. The rails will not be dismantled, the cost of this will be saved of 17 million schilling, they will not be carried, at least not for the new owner of this company. Ladies and gentlemen! In this context, the question of liability must be asked. The contract of assignment states that the liability is at 30. In June 1999, it was concluded that there would be no transfer obligation. . I am already telling you today that, if they become striking, liability will go at the expense of the citizens at the expense of the taxpayer who has to pay this token again. ==References== May 1995 the last Hunt was driven out of the Stollen and – as can be read in the newspaper – only the Bonzens gathered in the tent to celebrate and tormented to the music, while the pals who had gone out had tears in their eyes, then I believe that one cannot go to the agenda in this way, but that this thing must be followed. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Surely, not all things have been done with right things and things have gone wrong. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Koppler and Dr. Karlsson.]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] I am glad when you have become a little more shady again, and I am glad that you have been so interested in my speech. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e19738	The security report has been reported by Mr Mag. Steindl. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e19760	Mr President. Mr. Minister! In terms of transport, the two last speeches of my predecessors were very difficult. Mr Kiermaier said that he was a left-wing driver on the motorway and that he was constantly overtaken by the right-hand side. – To this end, I would like to say: You normally have to drive to the right, because the left-handers on the motorway are also being punished for this article, including those on the collar! You were on the wrong track! Yes, that was a pan of yours! [[Congratulations and cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[Call the ÖVP: They were on the panstrip!]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Mr Hofmann seems to have entered the tunnel, but no longer came out of the tunnel. That too can happen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I now turn to the safety report: I believe that this report is very comprehensive and contains many statistics. That's the positive. The negative thing about it, Mr Minister, which has already been stressed by you, is that the figures from 1995 and most of them are obsolete. As a Burgenländer, I would like to focus on border protection. It must be broken on the tongue: Austria has 1 460 kilometres of the EU's external border, about 400 kilometres of this EU's external border are located in Burgenland. There are headlines on illegal border crossings every day. I can prove this to you on the basis of various reports. For example, today is reported in the "Kronen Zeitung": "Illegaler was in the trunk." – Every day there are similar headlines, more and more, and the Burgenland has become top riders when it comes to taking up. An article shows that within half a year there were 2 429 attacks alone in Burgenland! – This shows how important it is that our border be controlled and protected by the Federal Army, the Gendarmerie, but also by customs. I am therefore glad that this border service is being developed and modernised gradually. Today, the helicopter in Eisenstadt has been presented, with which our border will be controlled. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You also live on dangerous terrain!]] You cannot talk about it, at most theoretically, because you live in Vienna and therefore only have a theoretical idea of these problems! You have to say that! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] But if you go out and look at it or just like I live on the border in Burgenland, you know what that means! You can't even talk here! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: I am there continuously!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] I am sure, Minister, that soon there will be an increase of 3,000 men. A wormhead drop, Mr Minister, is the 60 in the previous year and 41 posts in the Gendarmerie in general, of which the criminal department is also affected. That hurts! – You meant in an article that would be a legacy of the past. – I just want to stress: This resort has always been occupied with SPÖ ministers! They have rightly formulated two priorities that can be seen in close connection with illegal border crossings, namely organised crime – the number of tractors is increasing – and thus also addiction crime. All these problems require great effort to solve them. [[Abg. Scheibner: Then let's do something!]] It is therefore incomprehensible, Mr Scheibner, that, for example, one of you here proposes to create a kind of "citizen's defence". Do you even know what a civil defense is, you have an idea what that should be? I don't think so! That would be a kind of self-justice, and that really does not have any legal basis! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: They confuse self-protection with self-justice!]] I have had an article from the "standard" in which it is reported that there appears to be such a protective force in the district city of Gmunden, which has been set up by you. I read this to you – I quote: "At present, for example, the FPÖ is financing a private guard in the Upper Austrian district of Gmunden to convey the sense of security to the population. Since the private guests move through the city between 23 and 4 o'clock in the early days, the night's rest should be more disturbed than before, because the guards are not to be fully accepted and often confronted with laughter." This is your opinion of security policy: That is the view of an old party, as are the liberals! That's not our policy! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: You're in the government: What are you proposing?]] Our policy stands for stronger state, more motivated executives and safe citizens. And we want to realize this policy in the future too!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e19904	Mrs Madl has made a statement on an actual correction. – The Rules of Procedure are known, and I ask that they be observed.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e19928	Mr President. High house! My previous speaker claimed that a private security service in Gmunden would cause more laughter than security. This claim is incorrect. [[Abg. Kiss: He quoted!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] The right thing is: Since the private security service paid by FPÖ has been in service on Saturday and Sunday, destructions have declined, the population of Gmunden is very satisfied – and laughter can be far and wide no talk!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e19970	Reported to word... [[Abg. May. Steindl: I want to make a personal response!]] Deputies! An actual correction to an actual correction is not possible, and personally you have not been addressed! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: He can very well make a personal response!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Mrs Perfuss is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen. [[Live calls to the ÖVP.]] I call for the attention of Mrs Perfuss.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e20024	Estimated Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! – I hope you calmed down again! We have discussed the safety report on a broad field on this item in the agenda. I have listened carefully to the speakers of the opposition; it has been said a lot. When I listened to the Liberals, I got the impression that their slogan was: What is insecurity, fear and threat, we determine freedom of movement. [[Abg. Scheibner: Where did you get this again?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] Evidence of this is enough in your speeches! Mrs Partik-Pablé! With respect to your person, I must say: The threat scenario that you have drawn today has really played all the "tricks" – but against the facts in the report. I must be very surprised! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Read the safety report!]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! I heard two messages from you: First: Austria is becoming increasingly uncertain. Secondly, The Mafia is driving her pernicious beings in Austria. – The present security report – it is there for you! – shows a significant decrease in the number of criminal acts and also crimes. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Böhacker.]] The trend is also declining, that is the best thing about it! The right thing is: Austria is becoming safer while crime is increasing in all other Western states. That is why it is also an exaggeration, Mrs. Partik-Pablé, when you speak of mass vehicle shifts of the Turkish Mafia here in Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: It's in the safety report!]] Therefore, to the colleagues of the liberals: Let's leave the church in the village! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] Of course there are similar offences! [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Listen to me! An international comparison proves that Austrian car owners can be most secure. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: I just quoted from the security report!]] Please listen to me! If Europe's vehicles are stolen by 1 000 vehicles for transport, 9.5 vehicles are stolen, in Austria it is only 1.4! In the UK there are 22, in France 11,4, in Italy 10,2, in Germany 3,2, in Austria only 1,4! These figures, estimated Ladies and gentlemen, speak for themselves. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Don't talk about the Turkish Mafia who is driving her beings in Austria! It's just a choking of fears. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I am glad that our citizens do not have an X for a U, although you are genuinely trying to do so. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] An EU survey by the EU Commission is extremely interesting. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You should look at the safety report!]] Listen to me! The above survey states that the Austrians feel less threatened than other Europeans. In the face of political panic, my predecessor, Mr Mag. Steindl, point out – in Burgenland is soon, I think, municipal council election, is that right? – that the freedom of the municipal council of German Kreutz calls for a civil defence and a country-wide signature action against crime. [[Abg. May. Steindl: Yes!]] What does that mean? – This is such a no-na action: Who will be for crime? In psychology, this kind of agitation is called, as it comes from you, up to the smallest community, a "self-fulfilled prophecy": One's dreaming of the accident until it finally happens. Then you can say: We have always pointed this out anyway. That's almost Paranoia! But in the case of the liberals, it is only a political calculation. [[Abg. Rosenstingl: Which secretary did you write to you?]] We know: There are municipal council elections – your procedure is repugnant, immoral and irresponsible, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[President Dr. Fischer is taking over the presidency again.]] The light here at the speaker's desk is already shining. I would therefore like to end by thanking Mr Schlögl for today's confession to focus on the areas of violence in the family, sexual violence and abuse of young people and children and drug use. It would be desirable for us to be able to draw on the next safety reports in these areas.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e20193	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Steindl: Second word. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e20214	Mr President. Minister! As the plenary is now fully assembled, I would like to repeat once again the claim made by Mrs Madl of the Freedom Party. ==References== September 1997 under the title "Ideas for Civil Defense or Private Shepherds often come from the right" – I quote: "In the Ministry of the Interior, such self-protection proposals are already known. Not rarely did they come from the direction of the FPÖ, such a speaker. For example, in the Upper Austrian district of Gmunden, the FPÖ is currently financing a private guard to convey the sense of security to the population." [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] "Since the private guests have been passing through the city between 23 and 4 o'clock, however, the night's rest has been more disturbed than before, because the guards are not to be taken completely and often confronted with laughter." - Quote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e20256	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. There is no need from the rapporteur for a final word. We therefore come to the votes. I ask you to take the seats. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection adopted the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the proposal from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of this report III-82 and III-82. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of these reports to be approved. – This is decided by a majority. We shall therefore vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Leikam, Mr Kiss, Mr Partik-Pablé, Mr Anschober and Mr Kier on the report by the Federal Minister for the Interior on the application of the Schengen Convention. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this motion for a resolution. . I note that this request, as Mr Wabl, too, seems to have agreed, was unanimously adopted. (E 84.) This item on the agenda is done. 12. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the report of the Federal Minister for the Interior (III-83 of the Supplements) on civil service and the financial contribution related to it for 1995 and 1996 (773 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e20322	We're on the 12th. Agenda item. There is no need for reporting. Mr Scheibner is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). The voluntary speaking time is 8 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e20349	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! This civil service report is the first after the adoption of the likely definitive civil service reform. – Surely you can never be with us, since we have discussed a different regulation about the military service here in the house almost annually. It is quite interesting to draw a summary of these two reports now, because if you remember how this Civil Service Law Novelle from both resorts, both from the interior and from the defence resort, has been cheered up, then you have to look at the figures. Minister for Defence Fassleven has said that this reform will give him enough basic defenses for his military division. Remember: The border was 6 000 civilians a year. That was always the magical limit that could not be exceeded, otherwise the number of groundmen would have been too small. So this reform was cheered up: Everything's done now! Well, what do the numbers look like, ladies and gentlemen? – After the high level of nearly 15,000 civil service reports in 1994, there was indeed a apparent breakdown in 1995 to 5,986 civil service reports, apparently because the transitional arrangements which had led to this increase in civil service declarations have expired. The reports for civil service were just below the six-thousand limit with which civil service would have been automatically increased to twelve months under the old regime. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! In 1996, however, we suddenly have a 12 percent increase in civil service notifications. Mr Maitz! What does it say? Your Minister of Defense now? Now we are suddenly again over this magical border, which he himself regarded as the absolute highest level of civil servants in order to maintain military national defence. We had 6,700 civil service reports in 1996. Ladies and gentlemen! Why do I place such great value on this finding? You know, we still have a constitutional situation, which means that every male citizen, capable of military service, must be able to do so. We have a general obligation to do so, and only if there are reasons for conscience that he must make credible is it possible for him to perform a military service. The areas in which this service is to be provided should be in the area of comprehensive national defence and social protection. Federal Minister! The overview of the areas of action already shows that the constitutional order that civil service is a military service in the area of comprehensive national defence is no longer much left. Although there are numerous services in hospitals, in charitable and social institutions, which are of course highly appreciated. There – and this is expressly expressed by our side – important work is being done for society. But there are also a number of services and fields of use that do not meet these criteria, such as emergency services in offices as well as missions as school lotes or civilians in your ministry, Mr. Innenminister. Where can we find the approach to comprehensive national defence, military service or social component? This extends to the area of action already cited in the Committee on Radio Mozambique. Minister of the Interior! They have said that there is currently no civil servant at Radio Mozambique, but I wonder how this institution could at all become a recognised agency and why it can apply for Austrian civil servants in the area of comprehensive national defence and social protection. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This is a clear example of how partially Schindluder is driven. Again and again it is argued that one cannot really cut short in this area. You've noticed that now, too, because you wanted to make savings. Because, one hears again and again, we need exactly this number of civil servants, otherwise the entire social system collapses. – What does the social system really look like? Ladies and gentlemen! There are currently, in 1997, some 8,000 civil service places, which are also occupied. Before the civil service liberalisation arrangements took place, there were between 2,000 and 2,500 places, up to the beginning of the 1990s. Now I ask you, Minister of the Interior: Has the need for social and charitable institutions increased so exorbitantly over the last five years that we do not need more than 2 500 civilians now, but certainly these 8,000, of which everyone tells us that they are necessary, because otherwise everything "will collapse"? – If that were the case, it would be a poverty witness to this government at the same time. Because then, in these few years in the social system, so much must have happened that it is actually incredible and immense, and then you would need extreme explanation. However, I believe that the opposite is the case and that in fact, with these cheap workers, Schindluder will also be driven. By means of positive facilities such as the Red Cross, cheap and free labour are given, and they extend their fields of activity so as to make other sectors competitive, such as those already discussed in the Committee, especially in rural areas. These were previously an important task and acquisition component of the private taxi companies, but now due to the possible use of free civilians throughout the Red Cross. Private enterprises, on the other hand, are facing major economic problems. There are enough examples for this. If one criticises that these social institutions no longer receive voluntary staff, Minister of the Interior, then this would be an assignment, especially to you in the government, but also to us in general, in politics, to question why it is so. Why are fewer and fewer young people willing to provide voluntary service to the community, be it the Red Cross, the voluntary fire brigade or, ultimately, the state defense? Do not schools and politics share this responsibility? If we could question this and perhaps bring about a change in consciousness, then we would not need such forced measures and alibisactions, but then young people would be more and more proud to be able to serve society in the voluntary field. Ladies and gentlemen! That would be our goal, too. We have said that we should define precisely the important and necessary areas of action, both in the area of national defence and in the important but long neglected area of civil and civil protection, and try to find enough volunteers for these essential functions through an incentive system. Then we needed to stop lying about the fictions that we still maintain – that we had a general military service and a military service – and not to lie to ourselves, but to have a positive system at our disposal. We also believe that a volunteer can replace four forced responsibilities. This would help everyone: the budget and ultimately society. These would be the approaches that we would have to discuss here – but not jubilation numbers and grudges – if we wanted to implement such reforms.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e20395	The next speaker is Mr Schwamlein. Voluntary speaking time is set.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e20416	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I admit that I did not expect any other speech from my previous speaker than the one he delivered to us: essentially a accumulation of questions, but the answers he did not only owe himself but all of us. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] I do not want to continue in this style of freedom. For if I were to be guided by Mr Hofmann, I would have to tell you about the toothaches of my aunt, and this does not necessarily fit into the debate on the report on civil service law. Ladies and gentlemen! We took an essential step in 1996 – and Mr Scheibner has rightly pointed out this. Mr Scheibner. Let us take this opportunity to say that there is now a very useful solution and at the moment there is no need for any action at all to make changes. With the Civil Service Act Novelle 1996, we have in all cases ensured that civil service is preserved as such. You have put the question in the room here, whether it would be useful to do what is going on in this way. I noticed the following: They understand the comprehensive national defence essentially as purely military. [[Abg. Scheibner: Not at all!]] If you do not, then you must not question civil service in the form of how you did it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Within the framework of the Civil Service Law Novelle 1996, we have set the duration; this is an essential point. We have abolished the examination of conscience. We have also provided the opportunity to make the statement on a change of conscience only in retrospect. Now to reality, ladies and gentlemen. You can and should make legitimate criticism everywhere. The fact is, however, that 83 per cent of civil servants have a positive impact on their activities, which is also mentioned in the report. This is a more than significant percentage. At the same time, it is a fact that the people can very well start with the term "civil service" and have a very positive attitude to it in three quarters. I therefore believe that we are going the right way, even because we can say that a very large part of civil servants – Mr Scheibner, I believe that we should and must emphasize this in this House – that is, far more than 90 percent, is working in social activities. [[Abg. Scheibner: They often have no training for this!]] They have rightly said that we should thank civilians. I would like to add this: Let us be glad that these young people are setting out exactly the signals you have called for, namely, to be ready to make themselves available to older and fragile people and to help people under very harsh conditions. This is an essential point, ladies and gentlemen. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Haidlmayr.]] We agree, I believe, that there is a very good reason to say today about every fifth: I am prepared to take up the sometimes greater effort of civil service and not to take up military service. – If someone makes this personal decision, I think we should first and foremost put our thinking and actions in such a way that we create the best possible conditions. The Minister is doing this in an excellent way, because we now have useful and very good financial conditions with which everyone can live. I also believe that it is crucial for the future to ensure that all of us – this dramatic picture that the magic number of 6,000 has been exceeded – cannot be considered as dramatic – who want to take up civil service. [[Abg. Scheibner: What does your Minister say about this?]] Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that the report which has been presented to us presents a very good picture of the years 1995 and 1996. He confirms that we have taken a right course and solved the very delicate issue of civil service with the novelle in 1996. I should like to congratulate you, Mr Minister, not only on your work but also on thanking you and your officials for the report.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e20499	The next speaker is Mr Dr Kier. He's got the floor. Do you want to set a speaking time? [[Abg. Dr. Kier: 3 minutes!]] - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e20528	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! I would just like to make a few points about the flow of quantities into the debate. I note that we have around 14 200 civilian servants in the post. After we have dramatically deteriorated the law and changed the boundaries of inequality, some 6,600 civilians continue to take up the service each year. We are facing an 8 percent reduction in discretionary expenditure, which has led to a declining number of assigned civil service places from last 6 800 to 6 400. Much more civilian service places are requested than we can allocate, as admittedly due to the budget allocation. If I assume that the average length of stay in the deferral is seven years, then this means that every year a seventh of those present in the deferral are, so to speak, matured by its expiry. There is an increase in the potential of people who actually need to be allocated, in an order of 2,000 heads – they may also be only 1,000 – per year. That means we have more civilian servants, a bigger upholstery and falling allocation numbers. Therefore, the question remains open to me: What do we do with the civilians who remain? Let's not admit it, and it's like in the game "6 out of 45": Some are lucky and will not be called up, or do some have bad luck if they are not called in, because they are not positive about civil service? This is the Quintessence of this report: If we take civil service seriously, then we must create a set-up in which, in principle, all those who report to civil service are actually assigned to civil service places within a reasonable time, otherwise we lose the claim that this is something we take seriously, and give the right to those who claim that this is only the parking lot for the military technicians. – That’s your philosophy, otherwise you wouldn’t have increased to 12 months. This is different in other countries. If we already have such restrictive and strange laws, I ask you at least to ensure that the flow of quantities is true and that the people who report to civil service, including the so-called abandoned, can be assigned to civil service places under normal deadlines. There is sufficient demand for the charitative facilities. After all, they are social services. It was only these days that I was on my way to Upper Austria in the area of relevant lawyers who are concerned about care cases, the disabled and so on. They are truly grateful for every civil servant they are provided with. You are doing a truly valuable work, and I therefore ask you: From your report, draw the conclusions you have to draw! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e20567	The next speaker is Dr. Maitz, Member of Parliament. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e20596	Mr President. Minister of the Interior! Ladies and gentlemen! The Civil Service Report for 1995 and 1996 provides a complete picture of the development of this social service in these two years. It marks the legislative changes by the published figures and the public discussion on the Civil Service Law Novelle. This report also welcomes a complete presentation of the new civil service rights and the public opinion that is reflected in them. As spokesperson of our party, I also say here and today: All respect and recognition for everyone who makes military service, but also all respect and recognition for everyone who performs his civil service in a social organization! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The discrepancy that Mr Scheibner and Mr Kier have raised between how much civil servants would need our society and how much the Federal Ministry of the Interior has allocated, I would like to add a few figures before I present a proposal for a solution, which I believe is close to the need and which does not put a substantial burden on the budget. In 1996, there were 6 853 allocations, the need was 7 936. So there could have been more use of some 1,000 civilians. In 1997 and 1998, this difference seems to be commuting in such a way that our society could need about 2,000 civilians more for social services than we have foreseen in the assignment. How can you solve this problem? Minister of the Interior! We have jointly decided on a new suspension scheme for the army and civil service. So if we no longer allow anyone seeking higher education to automatically exempt it from civil service, let it grow older and thus cause costs, but only in justified cases, as in the army, to suspend it and to call the larger part into civil service within a year, then this bill could go out. There are currently 13 625 civil servants whose service has been suspended in accordance with the Medical Law because of visits to a higher school, higher education or, although only a few, but after all, a few. Under the new deferral arrangements, the financial coverage in the budget of the internal unit for normal costs could be slowly created by reducing the housing costs and family maintenance costs. I am amazed that the flat-rate compensation for the 6 500 civilians amounts to around 150 million schilling a year and that the housing and family maintenance costs amount to 140 million schilling to almost the same amount. Therefore, we should insist that civil servants be called up relatively young, because then they do not cause double costs: on the one hand, the costs of the flat-rate compensation, which, of course, each of them, and on the other, if they are older and have a family and their own home, the housing and family costs they naturally have to be replaced according to our legal situation. It is therefore up to us to call the civil servants younger and not to charge housing aid and no family allowance, in any case only where there is a real need for each one. In my view, this will be a longer-term account. We can call, serve, and provide flat-rate compensation for some 8,500 civilians. This means that we have two flies at one time: no higher costs in the budget and demand coverage. I would ask you to consider these considerations. We by the People's Party will vote in favour of this report.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e20651	Next speaker is Mrs Haidlmayr. – You could have spoken from the bank.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e20672	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say in advance that we are going to vote in favour of the Civil Service Report, but not because we are in favour of the solution of civil service in the current form, but because the report as such gives a clear statement, because it is easy to understand and because it shows above all where the weaknesses of this new law remain. Minister! Since the introduction of civil service to the extent of 12 months, it has been necessary for people, such as teachers who have completed their studies and should actually take up their professional activities, to lose a school year in fact by increasing the duration of civil service. Because today, when a teacher completes his studies in July, when he takes up the civil service in October, and until 30. In September of the following year, he can no longer enter his school area because the school had already begun in early September. He will no longer be assigned as a teacher, that is to say, he is standing on the street for a year. This only results from the extension of civil service to 12 months. In practice, this extension of civil service also leads to a situation which is hardly soluble for many civil servants, because it is hardly possible, in particular in the social field, to work eleven and a half months without taking the necessary vacation. I think it would be unreasonable for someone working in the social field today if he had to work eleven and a half months without a vacation. You know that working conditions in the social field are very difficult. For civil servants too, it is usually no longer possible for civil service to continue completely and not to go into the infirmary any longer in the meantime. The physical and mental stress is too high. Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals and of the ÖVP! They belong to those parties who have always spoken against civil service and have made sure that the civil service period has been extended. Of course the SPÖ has finally agreed, but it is you who have always had something against civil service, and of you civil servants are still not recognized as what they are. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: That's a premise!]] Civil servants are essential in the social field, and you, who still have your problems with civil service, make use of it most of the time. [[Abg. Scheibner: He just said that!]] Who has most civil servants? - The Red Cross. But where is the Red Cross to be assigned? – We answered the question. You can't resort to something you make the most of yourself! [[Congratulations to Mr Wabl and Mr Gredler.]] [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: What is the Green Cross?]] None of you who sits in here and holds a position as mayor, old-fashioned or head of a disabled workshop et cetera will be an exception and will refrain from civil servants. You are all taking up your civil servants, and you must all be glad that we have people in Austria who are willing to provide civil service. We cannot afford to employ 6 000 people in the social field in Austria, because the funding for this area has been drastically reduced year after year. Now that civil servants are leaving their working conditions even more, I simply think that they are the wrong signal. It's going to be much sharper, though. The liberals now suddenly demand a forced service for women in the social field. Ladies and gentlemen! Whoever is active in the social field can do this work only if he does not have to do it under compulsion. They cannot oblige anyone in the social field to engage in an activity under compulsion. Ladies and gentlemen! It is about people who need help and care, and that is what everyone can do only voluntarily. Many people will continue to be willing to do so in the future by creating the necessary financial conditions. In the social field, it is now the case that everyone still believes that work should be done for nothing and that no one should ask for it. None of you here is willing to do his work for nothing! But there should still be everything for free in the social field? – Ladies and gentlemen! It's not like that. The social sector is not free of charge to the population. The social sector is an area with hard work, and it belongs to well paid! [[Congratulation of the Abg. Wabl.]] If you are going here today, promising the Civil Service Report and saying that the new Civil Service Law Novelle is a huge step forward, you should also know that all the institutions reject this view. This innovation was not progress. The institutions now have the problem of having to drive double-tracked civil servants for four months in their organization. Although they draw up their status in civil service places in these four months, they lack half of the civilian servants thereafter. It is not reasonable for any civil service agency to be able to work for four months with the double number of civil servants and after this time to break in by half. What are we supposed to do in the outpatient care area? There it is our duty to use the civilians accordingly. That's what we're trying to do, and that's what we're doing. But should we stop caring for 20 or 30 people because of the double overlap, because we no longer have civilian servants for it? - They're gone! That's not how it is, Minister! We can only imagine one solution in such a way that the overlap lasts up to two months. Because with two months of overlap, we would have the opportunity in the social field to use a month to train civilians in the institution accordingly. Three weeks they are on basic course, and thus it would be possible to keep both the number of care and the number of civil servants who would then be continuously available. But under today's conditions this is a thing of impossibility. It is absolutely necessary that the allocation dates for civil service change accordingly. The institutions cannot continue to work in this form in the longer term. The existing overlap is too high and cannot be handled by the institutions in the way they would like it to be. I am glad that we have enough civilian servants in Austria, and I am personally proud that I was the first female civil service officer in Austria. I am also proud of the fact that our civil servants have had a medical rate of only 0.017 per mille. That is, whoever chooses civil service knows what he is doing and does it with commitment. This commitment of civil servants should finally be recognized. Civil servants simply have the right to receive the same financial benefits as the basic defence servants. [[Congratulations on the Greens as well as on representatives of the Liberal Forum.]] Minister! As to why the flat-rate compensation for civilians is lower than that for those responsible for military service, you still need explanation. It is not possible today that a civil servant with 2 222 s per month will secure his survival. A soldier is not required to secure his existence or survival with 2 222 S. They must be prepared to raise the remunerations so that civil servants also have the opportunity not only to perform their service but also to live decently and to have a decent existence. And they must receive at least so much flat-rate remuneration that they can afford at least the minimum expenses for personal use. Minister! Another thing: It is unimaginable to me why a civil servant, if he lives in a housing community, has no right to a rental refund. If he has his own apartment, then of course he gets it. How should a former student who has lived in a housing community ensure his living conditions if he does not get a single schilling for that? In this area too, a number of changes need to be made in order to improve the situation of civil servants. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I personally would like to thank all those who have or are doing civil service very much for the great work they do. Without the help of civil servants, we would look at the social dimension. We could never maintain the standard we now have in this area. The fact that in Austria disabled, elderly and in need of care can have a half-human existence is also due to the achievements of our civil servants in Austria! [[Congratulations on the Greens as well as on representatives of the SPÖ and the Liberal Forum.]] In view of this, I believe that the importance and importance of civil servants is far too low. We must not tighten the civil service laws! We need to loosen them, and we need to adjust them to those of the needy. Eight months are enough, both for civil service and for military service. Everything else is an imbalance and a blatant disadvantage for civilian servants, and we know that we need them very much! We should not make the big mistake and create even worse conditions for civil servants than we already have. If there are no more people in Austria reporting for civil service, then, ladies and gentlemen, you would suddenly have to think a lot of how you can ensure social standards in the old homes, in the nursing homes and in the rescue sector. I think such a situation would be inconceivable. That is why my request to you, Minister: Create conditions for the civilians where they are not worse than the soldiers! The civil servants do great work, and they deserve to be treated properly too! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e20772	Mr Scheibner referred to an actual correction. 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e20796	Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Haidlmayr, in her speech, has made the claim that the liberals demand a compulsory social service for women. This claim is incorrect. The free movement concept and the free movement of persons provide that both military service and civil protection, civil protection and social services should be organised on a voluntary basis in the medium term and therefore also made available to women on a voluntary basis.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e20834	Mrs Haidlmayr! I cannot allow a personal response because you were not personally addressed. You could speak for a second time. Mr Schlögl is now speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e20858	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to draw attention to what Mrs Haidlmayr and Mr Schwemlein said, namely the value and importance of civil service. I believe that there has been a marked turnaround in this area in recent years and that the civil servant in the population is much more recognized than it has been in the past. A recent study from October 1996, conducted by IMAS, shows that 77 percent of the Austrian population are very positive about civil service, 44 percent believe that civil service is a very good institution, and only 13 percent of the Austrian population are against civil service. In my opinion, the fact that civil servants are particularly motivated is also very important. The civil servants in their overwhelming majority are very involved in their activities and appreciate this activity very positively. I also believe that, in the course of his work, the civil servant has gained a very useful experience for his further life, that civil service provides a good insight into the social problems of our country and contributes to the fact that civil servants can better cope with future difficult situations in life. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Scheibner has raised a few points to which I would like to address briefly. First: I do not see the development of civil servants as problematic. The development was perhaps problematic for the Austrian federal army a few years ago, but now, as I think, there is a reasonable relationship. In 1990, there were some 41 000 suitable military servants, and I am always based only on adequate military officers and also on recognised civilian servants, not on those who apply. In 1990, we had 41 000 decent military officers and 2,500 recognized civilian servants. In 1993 and 1994 it looked quite different: As a result, the number of suitable military servants has fallen to 35 000 to 36 000, but the number of recognised civilian servants has increased to more than 13 000, i.e. the disproportionate relationship has been enormous. In 1996, we had 35 000 suitable military servants and 6,300 recognized civilian servants. – In my opinion, this relationship is also acceptable to the Austrian Federal Army and ensures that the Austrian Federal Army can continue to fulfil its obligations in the future. [[Abg. Scheibner: Fassleven says he needs 34,000 groundmen!]] The development in this year is similar. We will probably receive between 6 000 and 6 500 civil service applications this year, about 6 200 to 6 300 will be recognized. For me as an interior minister, of course, the problem is – I do not want to dispute – that we have received more and more civilian services in recent years – it is already over 700 – and that these civilian services also need more civilian services. This year alone, I believe, we could accommodate more than 9 200 civilians in the facilities. It is, of course, necessary and important that civil servants be more allocated in the future. We had 6 800 in the past year, 6 400 in the year before, 6 400 in this year we will allocate 6 400, and next year it will be almost 7 000, so the number will have increased. I must confirm the fear you have expressed, Mr Scheibner: According to my project, the civil service law will be amended again. It is already a change that I have made in my opinion, and this change takes into account my view that every civil service organisation should also make its financial contribution. At present, this is very, very different. There are organisations that do not have to pay any compensation at all, while others have to pay an amount of between 1 500 and 7 000 S. I do not think that this is justified, and I have therefore given an opinion on this subject, and I hope that you in Parliament will agree that every legal entity will have to make a minimum contribution in the future. The funds provided for this will be used, among other things, to enable more civil servants to be allocated to civil service facilities and to satisfy the needs of each institution. They have criticised the question of "Radio Mozambique/Foreign Service" – I do not necessarily want to defend this because I believe that this is without a doubt a border case. It is not necessarily the task of Austrian civil servants to take part in Radio Mozambique, although I do not consider this project to be so bad from the democratic point of view – I have asked myself. That is why, together with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, discussions will be held in the next few days so that the conditions for the recognition of civil servants abroad are made clearer and more precise. I would also like to maintain and defend that civil servants will continue to be used for road safety in the future. In any case, this is a very small number, to say it precisely: 3.1% of all civil servants are active in the field of transport safety, particularly in the field of school road safety. In view of the fact that we have increasing numbers of accidents and increasing numbers of fatalities and that many children are also killed in road transport, I think this is an important and necessary work. They have indirectly or directly referred to the falling number of volunteers in the various organizations as "evil evidence" for the government or for society as a whole. I mean, this is a social phenomenon that we are exposed to. Each one of us knows – there are a number of Members who are volunteering in various organizations – that there is no longer any access to organizations such as the Red Cross, to Blue Light organizations, to firearms and similar organizations to the extent that this was the case before. On this point, I believe, we are in common demand, not just the Federal Government. We must all achieve that more young people, but also adults, are willing to work for such organizations. I would like to say to what Mr Maitz said about the convocation: I see it just as you do. It is also a concern of us, not only to save costs, but also because I believe it makes more sense for young people to do their federal or civil service as soon as possible. After completing a higher education course, just before the start of the career course, this is always a problem. I would like to take the criticism of Mrs Haidlmayr very seriously. I am willing to work out common solutions in this regard, how these overlap periods can be changed. We currently have three convocation dates. It is certainly not a problem to create a fourth appointment date in addition, so that the overlap is very low for such organisations. I would ask Mrs Haidlmayr to talk to me about this so that we can find a common solution. The problem of housing communities is also clear to me. However, this applies not only to civilians, but also to federal soldiers. It is laid down by law that a person will receive compensation for an apartment only if, on the basis of a contract which he has concluded before the arrival of his Federal Army or civil service, he can prove that he has actual costs for an apartment, because the risk of manipulation and the risk of abuse is of course very strong if there is no written agreement. That is why I believe that we must press from the legislator for a corresponding regulation. If there is a clear written agreement and there is evidence that the costs involved are to be borne, this is not a problem either. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to say something about the comments made by Mr Kier: I would have liked it if he had said that, contrary to the security report, the civil service report had been properly and in time. For the civil service report is already available to Parliament in April 1997, even if it is unfortunately being dealt with only today. I hope that this will also be the case in the future in the Security Report. On the issue of the declining number of civil servants: I don't see a problem there. I think we can update the number of 14 000 over the next few years. The delay has significantly reduced the number of civil servants. In the next few years, however, I would like to call more civilians, but, as I believe, we will be able to achieve this number. No one should fall by rust against his will and not be able to support his civil service. I would like to give this right to everyone, since I believe that there is no problem in this regard. In this sense, I thank everyone for their comments and believe that civil service in Austria has become an institution that finds great recognition.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e20898	The next speaker is Mr Achs. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e20919	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The share of civilian servants has stabilised in recent years. On the one hand, the reasons for this are that the abolition of the examination of conscience has already achieved a high level, and on the other hand, clear legal frameworks have been created which have led to a stabilisation. This stabilisation means that human planning has become easier, both for the German army and for civil service institutions, which, of course, does not mean that all human wishes can be fulfilled in the short term. The extension of service areas should be assessed positively. New, socially important areas have been added to the original tasks such as rescue and old-age care. With the Civil Service Act Novelle 1994 the care of displaced persons or the provision for the security of public services was taken up. Another extension was made by the Novelle 1996. Since then, civil servants can also be used in areas of environmental protection and health care. The civil service report shows that the number of recognised bodies has also increased significantly in total. In addition, nearly 1 300 civil service places were created. Thus, the higher need has not been borne by traditional facilities. It is also gratifying that despite the greater number of recognized facilities, utilization has been slightly reduced. In practice, human structures have also changed in recent years due to the increasing number of allocations, both in the rescue sector and in the care sector or in other areas. These important social institutions today need civil servants to maintain their business properly. Today, the commitment of civil servants is no longer to be thought away from social life. Civil service is necessary for the social institutions and not least for those people among us who are sick or socially in need and need help. Ladies and gentlemen! That too is safety. It is the security that people in social distress do not feel left alone. It is certain that someone is there in difficult situations. This also applies to other areas: The subjective fears of people must also be taken seriously in the field of internal security. It is gratifying that a great deal has happened in recent years in this respect. The picture of civil service has changed considerably in recent years. He has an important role in our society today. The civil service report shows impressively that civil service is no longer a negative image, as may have been the case a few years ago. This is a sign, ladies and gentlemen, that the services of civil servants are recognized. This also shows that social engagement is a higher priority today. With the Civil Service Act Novelle 1996, the Conscience Review was finally abolished. This means, ladies and gentlemen, that young people will be able to choose freely in the future, in what form they are initiating their service to the general public: whether with the weapon in hand or as civil servants. We Social Democrats see both as an indispensable service to our society!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e20968	The next speaker is Mrs Haidlmayr: second word.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e20989	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I said that the liberals want women to be obliged to provide social services and that the executive club Ewald Stadler on the "Morgenjournal" on the radio on 5 May. He said September. I was corrected by Mr Scheibner that this was not the "F", but Mr Stadler. . I apologize for not knowing that Mr Stadler is no longer with the liberals. – Thank you
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e21019	The next speaker is Mr Dietachmayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e21041	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been very detailed about the advantages of the new Civil Service Act. I would just like to remind you: The review of conscience has been deleted, access and information has been improved, and the service areas have been expanded. I can therefore save myself this part. However, I would like to address a problem that has recently caused some vertebrae in Upper Austria, and therefore I would like to draw attention to particularly my colleagues from Upper Austria, namely those of the ÖVP. Perhaps it is the result of the election campaign in Upper Austria that has just been referred to several times in recent times in civil service. They have made it very easy: They know that the budget measures of the Federal Government also have an impact on civil service, and yet Minister Schlögl has succeeded in assigning nearly the same number of civil servants to Upper Austria as in recent years. If the ÖVP in Upper Austria proposes a higher amount for the organisations in question who request civil servants, because it is cheaper to hire than major employees, then the country of Upper Austria may also remember its competence. I particularly love the Red Cross, ladies and gentlemen. It does a lot for rescue every year and day. That is why I also support a preferred assignment of civil servants to this important organization. However, they should also remember that the rescue sector falls into national competence, and the country is therefore actually subsidized by civil servants. With financial demands to the Federation you are usually very fast, but when it comes to financial contributions from the country, you get much less to hear. In this way, you could prove that saving really means something to you. In election times, therefore, such a Vienna-Schelte is more than unnecessary! In this context, I would also like to remind you of the example of school road safety: The Upper Austrian Council of State Aichinger once accused the assignment of civil servants at some places of question. In this context, Aichinger referred to Vienna, where more than 250 civil servants are primarily used as school lotsen. - That's what was on the 21st. ==References====External links== ==References====External links== September, the same Mr. Landesrat Aichinger calls for "more civilians" for school way security in Upper Austria. – To this end, I would like to say: Perhaps you can consider what you really want! I do not think that the proposal to transfer the assignment of civil service from the Federal Government to the countries is a target, because there is enough contact between the Ministry and the countries in this area. It is also not known to me that a list of priorities from Upper Austria would have come to the Ministry of the Interior. If that were the case, the vote could have been easier. Ladies and gentlemen! I do not want to go further on the really sacrificing activity of civil servants, because that has already been sufficiently mentioned. I too would like to thank all those who have a civil service and who are often very sacrificing. I'm thinking about care stations in Altenheimen, for example: It is not quite easy for a young person when he is suddenly confronted with these difficult activities and also with the suffering of so many people. That is why I believe that all civil servants in Austria deserve our special thanks!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e21086	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur's wish for a final word is not present. We therefore come to the vote. We shall vote on the request of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of this report (III-83). I should like to ask that those ladies and gentlemen of the House who wish to vote in favour of the adoption of this report give a sign of approval. – This is decided by a majority. That is the point of the agenda. 13. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Dr. Heide Schmidtand comrades concerning a federal law with which the registration law 1991, BGBl. No. 9/1992, amended (775 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e21138	We're coming to the 13th. I'm sorry, but the deadline expired 2 days ago. Oral reporting has not been required. First speaker is Mr. Dr. Kier. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e21165	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The proposal from our group, which is here today, after passing the Committee on the Interior, to debate and vote, has a very simple, but not unimportant, reason for social policy. We still believe – and will be represented with endurance and patience – that the question of personal religious commitment is something that cannot necessarily be raised in the form of reporting data. That is why we have tabled this amendment. I would remind you of the debate in the Committee: I am already aware that there are certain interferences with regard to other obligations, in particular obligations under international law, but I wonder: Is it the only way to bring public services to the religious communities that reflect them at all – not all reflect on what we know – that we have a real right to report, in which there are, in fact, rules that are contrary to freedom of belief and conscience? I cannot help myself, but I believe that it is not really compatible with the freedom of faith and conscience if one forces people through such a law to entrust their respective positions to the administrative authority for any disposition and ultimately transfer. I recall other provisions of a similar kind that may still be employed on another occasion, such as the deep-seated records of personal data in Burgenland. I would therefore like to ask you very cordially: Before we vote, take another consideration of goods, and consider whether the argument is at all true that it is precisely this provision in the Reporting Act that is necessarily an implementing provision for the Concordat. I doubt that. I do not think that what is expressed in the concordat is necessarily the result of the fact that the registration law must look the way it looks here. However, if it is so, then – I am 100% sure of that – it is possible to enter into constructive discussions with the Holy See. For the people who really care about their faith have no joy with it as we do. They consider it practical for their financial administrations – that is something else – but if they could achieve the same purpose with other, more decent means, it would be better for them too. If someone is interested in facilitating the administration of the submission of his membership contributions, then, I believe, one can ask him to be creative in order to adopt a better method in which, if this is the case in the concordat, the public hand may be helpful, but not at the expense of the disclosure of all religious creeds of all citizens or of all people in that country who have to report policely. Because you have to consider the following: What happens if someone on the registration note – deliberately or inadvertently; I say now: intentionally or because he is afraid, not of the church contribution, but of anything else – has a false confession, something other than the true one. What happens then? Which penalty then enters? On and on, then, the full strictness of the law must be grasped. But with this we are exactly where we do not want to go, namely that someone makes himself punishable because he wanted to keep his religious confession hidden from whatever inner motives. I don't think we all need that. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e21211	The next speaker is Mr Deputie Gradwelt. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e21231	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Kier! At first glance or at first listening, you can get something from your request. However, if you question this matter more closely, you can see that some of the arguments you have made today may not be as solid and weighty anymore. As you have spoken of any disclosure of this personal data, I may refer you to the report of the Committee on the Interior of the Headquarters Act which you have certainly read. It precisely describes and regulates how and for what purpose these data are actually processed. Secondly, if you ask whether the police report is actually the only means of complying with this international agreement, I can do something about your argument. However, one thing has gone down to me: They offered no alternative. I can't mention an alternative here and today. With the end of the takeover, it was necessary to adopt a measure corresponding to the concordat. This is a international agreement, and we have to comply with it. I should also like to point out that, as one who is directly involved with the reporting agents in the implementation of the Act, I have not noticed any problems when someone has to indicate his religious confession. Since you have carried out, those who may give incorrect information about the religious confession meet the full power of state, I ask you to explain to me how this happens. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: Hard!]] For there is no reason, no legal regulations or any provision that obliges the reporting officer to support with a declaration of accession to a religious community which he submits to a religious profession. Therefore, it is not possible to punish a person for something that he must not prove before. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: So can he write in what he wants? Then it's for nothing! Then he can write in whatever he wants!]] Mr Kier! It is – with this I repeat – a way to satisfy the concordat after the recruitment of the staff. But it is not the case that the state would be fully affected, as you have pointed out, that state power and state power are meeting in such a way. In conclusion, once again: Since we do not notice in execution that the reporting officer has problems in stating his religious confession, I would ask you to support this request by stating where the problems are located. I do not think that the facts that I have learned from the execution have any reason to change this law. Moreover, for the protection of the reporting agent, only one copy of the registration note, namely the one remaining with the authority, appears to be the religious confession. It is not to be seen on all other copies. Therefore, there is no danger that third, non-official persons will be able to recognize the religious confession without access. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e21280	Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e21302	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say to my previous speakers that I share the concerns expressed by Mr Kier. However, I would like to find another solution to the problem. I would like to say to Mr Gradwelt: You have, I believe, thought that you do not need to change anything as long as the reporting officer has no problems, and I would like to know what the reporting officer's problem could be. I should like to remind you that we are all constantly concerned to require citizens to provide personal information or to share it. In all surveys, this is always a main topic: What do we include, what data do we take in? I think it is necessary to take into account that the mention of the religious confession is a matter of the highest personality and, in accordance with the Reporting Act, there is no reason at all to pass on this highest personal date. The reporting system is in place to provide security information which is subsequently also used in the security field. [[Intrusion of the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] Of course, indeed! The reporting system has been set up to carry out a security policy task. The indication of the religious commitment is something that does not at all fit into this security policy task and does not contribute to it. That is why I believe it is necessary to take this date into account. They also mentioned the concordat. The concordat only provides support from the State in order to obtain necessary data. This support can be granted in any other way; it does not necessarily have to be done in such a way as it is now carried out, namely by mentioning it on the notification note. Furthermore, the church has enough possibilities to get to the data. As I said, The statement on the registration note is not the only way to find out which religious community anyone belongs to. How sensitive the statement of religious confession is is also evidenced by the corresponding regulation in the Announcement Act. It is quite clear that there could be disadvantages for someone whose homeowners do not agree, for example, that the tenant is without a confession or belongs to another religious community. That is why the signature of the owner of the dwelling can be collected on the registration note first and only after that can the religious confession be registered. That is to say, one is fully aware that there can be difficulties in practice. This should therefore be taken into account if we are talking about making a legal amendment. I would also like to point out that the Act of Reporting on Religious Creed is contradictory in so far as it provides: If a person writes a false religious confession, he is not punishable, but if he makes no mention at all, he falls under the terms of punishment. – Needing to do so Don't shake your head. Look at this! I think it is urgent that we should first of all make a clean-up and also commit ourselves to collecting and passing on only those data that are absolutely necessary, but not such highly personal data as religious confession. As I said, I have only chosen a different way than that of Mr Kier. I believe that the person who wishes to volunteer the religious confession should have the opportunity to do so. This should also be announced in the explanatory statement, and I am therefore tabling the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] I believe that this would be an arrangement that could help to protect those who would like to render this service to the Church and those who do not want to give up their personal belonging to the religious community. I would ask you to agree to this request.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e21386	The motion for a resolution, which has just been referred to, will then be put to the vote and will be put to the vote. I give the floor to Mr Dr. Khol. The clock is set to 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e21410	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! This is a matter of principle. It is not a problem of the way citizens say that their sphere of freedom is restricted, and it is not a question of maladministration, but of a fundamental question raised by the Liberal Forum, which is directed against the religious confessions and the generally recognized churches in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: But go!]] This is completely legitimate, ladies and gentlemen of the Liberal Forum! [[Abg. Schaffenrath: A flat argument!]] Her kind of liberalism is just an anti-Clericalism. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: This is unworthy of you, Andreas!]] You have spoken against religious teaching, and you are advocating the release of drugs. They are therefore of a kind of liberalism that wants to weaken all the institutions that establish values. It is this liberalism – confess to it! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intercom calls at the Liberal Forum.]] It is the consistent continuation of that policy that we say: Religion and religious communities, that is private matter – they are supposed to move around in the silent chamber and do nothing at all to us! [[Abg. Schaffenrath: No, also public!]] Under the title of separation of church and state you hunt phantoms of the 19th century. After the 19th century! – Stay You just there, you won't find a majority for that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would be the first to say: If there is a climate in which people in this country find themselves exposed to convulsions, then one must help. I would be the first to say: If there are complaints that things are handled in such a way that freedom and personal design would be affected, one should be helped. But Mr Gradwelt has just confirmed what I know from practice. It is like the last request made here, because it is made at regular intervals by the Liberals. It's about a practice I know: There are no problems, there are no penalties, that all goes completely normal. I can tell you – I asked the bishops: Without the registration on the registration note, it is not possible for the churches to find their contributors in all their relocations. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: That's not true!]] We do not have the German system – which your colleague Barmüller, for example, always believes we had it – in which the church tax is deducted from the employer, but we have the system of voluntary church contribution, which is managed like an association contribution. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: We have a voluntary contribution!]] In order for the large churches and religious communities to know where their contributors are, the state helps them with the registration paper in a socially compatible way and in no way restricting freedom. Ladies and gentlemen! Without the church contributions, it would not be possible for evangelical deacony, for example, to develop its blessed activity to begin with. It would not be possible for the Caritas to pay their billions of budgets in Sunday's speeches by the Liberals. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: We don't give any Sunday speeches, we give our speeches every day!]] It would not be possible to maintain the cemeteries and the churches in our country without church contributions. Without these church contributions, it would not be possible for youth work, old age work and prison care to be carried out. It would not be possible for our children to receive religious instruction. All this is possible only because there are church contributions. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: You know that's not true!]] I believe that we must therefore be very clear about this – we believe that a society is based on values, on values that do not convey to the State the children, the people, the values, the free communities, churches, religious societies and others. [[Abg. Schaffenrath:... but only the Roman Catholic Church determines the values!]] For example, the scientist Böckenförde – that is the so-called Böckenförde-Paradoxon – says that state and society are based on the fact that there are others who base these values. The churches and religious societies are among the great values creators in all societies. When we destroy the churches and religious societies their material foundation, we destroy our society. But you will find us on the barricades, Mr Kier! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would also like to deal with the hypocrisy. By their fruits, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals, you shall know them! Nothing is useful in the party program for defensive Christianity, and now in a Christianity that is conscious of its values. Better than defensive is true, ladies and gentlemen! And it will be yours, yes, truly! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: The true values!]] If one wants to confess to Christianity, then one has to vote accordingly. By their fruits you shall know them. We will look at exactly how you will vote today when it comes to: Do we want to enable our churches and religious societies to continue their blessed works, or do we want to withdraw this basis from them? [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: This has nothing to do with the values!]] We of the People's Party know: There is no solidarity without values, there is no society without solidarity! We stand with this state, we stand for solidarity, and we are fundamental values.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e21611	Mrs Gredler has made a statement on an actual correction. I would draw attention to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e21635	Mr Khol said: Liberalism is anti-Clericalism. I am actually correcting that the only connection of these two words is actually in the last syllable: "-ism", as is Catholicism. I feel personally diffused as a member of the Catholic Church and as a member of the Liberal Forum by Dr. Khol.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e21671	I would like to make a further request for an actual correction by Mr Magn. Stadler ahead. - Here you go. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: A personal response, Mr President!]] Mr Khol, according to constant practice, the fact that one refers to a discussion contribution is not yet a cause for personal response. I just handled this 30 minutes ago. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That was no actual correction!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: No, that was a debate!]] As to whether this was an actual correction, I also had my doubts about that because content assessments are at least a limit. But I didn't intervene in time. It's my fault. The next speech is from Mrs Stoisits. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e21734	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr Klubobmann Dr. Khol, you have made a request from the Liberal Forum to amend the Reporting Act for a speech which, although I appreciate you as fellow Members of Parliament and have always appreciated as Roman Catholic Austrians so far, would be a model example of intolerant behaviour, for a dequalification of Dr. Kier's contribution to debate, which is just a matter of zeal. I am forwarding that I am not influenced by the Liberal Forum, nor by anti-Clericalism, nor by anything else you might fear. I belong to the same religion as you and I am a Roman Catholic Austrian, a Roman Catholic Croatian. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Is a Croatian not an Austrian? That's no contrast!]] Dear Dr. Khol! Is it true that those who, as it were, belong to the main religion of this state, are allowed to think here to explain to us that your values are the right ones, as you so salopp by the way in reply to a discussion contribution by Mr Kier, in which it was about the notification law and a concern of great importance which I consider to be absolutely dissatisfactionable? Dr. Khol! I am also of the opinion that youth work, the preservation of monuments – the contribution to the protection of monuments by the Church – is essential to the care of the elderly and the disabled, and that if it were not for all that Caritas in Austria as a whole in the social sector, the social state in this Republic would immediately collapse in a large area. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: That was explained!]] On the other hand, that this is financed by means of the so - called church contribution, no one has to object, nor does Mr. Dr. Kier. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: Sure!]] I'm not against values, either, as you called it now. That churches and religious communities are essential donors in our society: In this respect, no one will contradict you. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Only the liberals always contradict!]] But it is a question of forcing one in a country in which state and church are supposedly strictly separate, to state on the record one's religious confession. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: He explained the connection to you!]] This not only concerns the Roman Catholic, but there are still others that you have not mentioned – consciously or unconsciously. There are not only fellow citizens and fellow citizens in our country who are Roman Catholic or evangelical, just as there are not only the Caritas and the Protestant deaconies who do social work. There are also fellow citizens and fellow citizens who are Islamic or Mosaic faiths, there are fellow citizens and fellow citizens of at least eight other nationally recognized religious communities. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: They may also have their confession!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] The principle of stating the religious confession on the record applies to all. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In the discussion about noise attack and grid arrest, this very fact has played an essential role when one wanted to make us believe – and still wants – that there is no passing on of sensitive data. I am willing to believe in you that it is not too sensitive to be Roman Catholic or, perhaps, evangelical in Austria. But it is already a lot more sensitive not to belong to one of the two great religions, and it is not too pleasant for many to know that they are being forced into such a thing. This has nothing to do with the Church's contribution, but it is a general discussion that refers to the fact that there is this compulsion and this necessity with a criminal sanctions. This is a topic for all religious societies and religious communities. Mr Kier's concern relates to this, and I can absolutely support this concern, far from the suspicion of wanting to be anti-Clerical. If Mr. Dr. Kier goes a step further and refers to international obligations that oppose this, then it is absolutely legitimate, also in the sense of the values you preach for living together and dealing with each other, to encourage or demand such a discussion. This is absolutely appropriate in the sense of democratic co-existence. Ladies and gentlemen! If the first cases of abuse become known – it doesn't have to be misused at all, but it's enough that someone doesn't feel comfortable with them – then we'll talk to Mr. Dr. Khol here and ask him what consequences he's going to suffer, always in relation to his Christian-evenly values. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: Why do you always have to hide your values?]] I appreciate this with you, Dr. Khol, but they are not all to the same extent. That is why I very much regret, Dr Kier, that the majority of the House is not likely to join you and will take note of this negative report by the Committee on the Interior. I am not going to do so, and I am assuming this from those Members of my group who are still here.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e21863	The next speaker is Mr Mag. Steindl. He's got the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e21885	Mr President. Minister! Dear Teresa! [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Don't "love"!]] It is clear what this is to be said: First it was the crosses in the classes, then the abolition of religious teaching and now the registration law. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: No!]] It is clearly against the Church! This must be said here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intercom calls at the Liberal Forum.]] Let me also say my opinion. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schaffenrath.]] If we had only your problems, namely the problems of liberals, then there would probably be no problems in Austria. They are constantly dealing with peripheral topics – and this is your problem, not our problem! We stand by what we have decided in 1993 and we will therefore not amend this law. Formal has already been discussed: It is also about the fact that the concordat, concluded between the Republic and the Vatican, must also be fulfilled in this case. Mr Kier! For example, you have not told me how you would otherwise fulfil this contract. From this speaker's point of view, that has not yet been said. I believe that it is also a matter of material things – Mr Klubobmann Khol stressed this too – that the churches should collect contributions and finance a great deal with these contributions, from hospitals to old-age homes to monument protection and so on. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: We already heard that!]] Let me also say something to the Reporting Authority. There are no penalties for indicating incorrect data. The notifying authority shall only have the completeness, but not the correctness. I therefore see no reason to change this law. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e21965	The next speaker is Mrs Madl. She's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e21986	Mr President, Federal Minister! High house! Mr Khol! I can only make a connection very difficult if one speaks of the destruction of society in the light of the question of whether or not one has to write his religious confession on a record. I think that's a little thick applied! But perhaps this speech would be more appealing in a different place than here in Parliament! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Know the proverb: Principiis obsta – defend the beginnings!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] Mr Gradwelt looked, after his speech, very disbelief when Mrs Bablé made a few comments. He wasn't so wrong with his statement, he hit the nail on his head, but he meant it differently by saying: There is no need for a Member's ID to prove that the information is actually right. – He was right because he believed that this would not be checked at all. There is also no reason to review at all, and I can also tell you why: According to § 4, the report has to be completed in full, as the previous speaker said. If you look at the sanctions, you can see that it says that the reporting obligation is not fulfilled or that criminal sanctions are carried out if you do not complete this report. And in Abs. 4, three paragraphs, it says: "In the event of a check-in or re-submission, incorrect identity data are criminal." The identity data consist of names, date of birth, place of birth and nationality. Not even the indication of the sex, male or female, is subject to the truth. That means that everyone can tick what they want in the sex, because it is not punished. And it can ultimately cross everyone's religion as well, what he wants, because this does not involve criminal sanctions. That's what it looks like! At first and foremost, other members of the Federal Government are a little more loosely handled, with expressions that really do not make it easy for those officials who are to execute it. Mr. Federal Minister Edlinger, in his regulation amending the Consumer Tax Regulation, has published a Federal Law, which states under 3a: "... for tobacco products imported in the personal luggage of travellers who have their normal residence in the connecting area". – The passus "normal residence" cannot be found in the whole registration law at all! How is a customs official supposed to act at all with someone who introduces a rod of cigarettes and indicates a "normal residence" or says: There is no "normal residence" in the whole notification law at all. – I asked the heads of the reporting offices, and they asked me very much to make a request to Minister Edlinger, what I did, because for the first time unknown expressions are not used in Austrian legislation or the text of the law contains conflicting passages that make life very difficult for the executive officials!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e22030	The next speaker is Mr Dr Kier: the second speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e22051	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Klubobmann Khol! I have briefly considered making an actual correction, but I would like to take up the debate with Mr Klubobmann Khol and make a few comments now, because I like a lot, but not annihilations of this kind. It does not correspond to the normal intellectual fairness of a university professor, so to argue against his own level of knowledge as you did here. I'm very disappointed! They can only have been guided by what is called the opposite of charity, namely hatred. Something else can't have bothered your eyes like that! I'm saying that very clearly. For example, since in Vienna, for example, the second largest religious community is now those people who do not confess to a religion, we believe that religious teaching should not be alternatively left in space. We believe that values in a society are something very, very important, but they must rest in the person's conscience and develop them themselves. We believe that there can also be conflicts between different viewpoints and that the constitutional element of a human society is. But not the state is the constitutional element, and not the churches are the constitutional element, but the people, and sometimes they make it very bad, sometimes they make it better, sometimes called Mother Theresa, and sometimes they are called Khol. Do you understand me? There's a wide range! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on representatives of the SPÖ.]] Of course, the Caritas is a natural ally of people who act for charity because they consider them important to human beings, and of course there are conversation bridges far beyond the narrow limits of the confessional chair, Professor Khol, namely between tolerant Catholics, open evangelical people and tolerant Jews. All of this, across some breaks. – Mr Partik-Pablé brought here a very reasonable proposal for funding from her point of view and from our point of view, saying: Let us expressly declare that at least criminality must not be expressed until now! – That was not even taken up! On the contrary: It is charged with the accusation that this is a claim. I am the last one who solidifies himself in position issues with the Freedom Party, but that is a very bad assumption! My colleague, Mr Partik-Pablé, argued that there was not a hint of worship! Faith You're me! There can be someone in matters of the criminalisation of drug addicts – I am not talking about the release of drugs, as you call it so salopp – who believes that this cannot be the only means and that it must be done differently. If, however, it is claimed that the one, the alternative to the exclusive monopoly of the so-called values-makers, in this case the official values-positors, the values-positors, for example the ethic teaching, are a "valueless companion", then that is not fair! I have never claimed that people who represent false values for me are worthless. Bishop Krenn, whom I see very contradictorally, is not a worthless person. He's only acting for values I don't stand for, but I don't call him the dignity of human beings. That's the difference! - I don't like this discussion. To the beaker-paradoxone: That's not a paradox! It is only for someone paradox who believes that the state or the church is mother or father of all things. We certainly don't believe that! We believe in the self-responsibilities of the human being, in the commitment to stand up for his own opinion, to be able to justify them. And you can only do that if you derive it from values. Do you think the reasons fall into one of your own if you do not have any basic ethnic attitudes? Do you think that such a subject, which your group colleague has referred to as a "branch topic", can be presented with concerns if a value is not important? Perhaps other values are important to you! Be careful not to become intolerant! I wonder, Would it not be a great advantage and an administrative profit for the ÖGB if membership of the Trade Union Confederation were to be mentioned on the newsletter because otherwise it would not be possible to manage 1.6 million members? Faith You really do? – But this idea is not even an approach! Of course you'll say: What's the ÖGB? It's a club! And when he was founded at the time, he was still a fighting club, which cannot be compared to a religious community! I don't compare it! I just mentioned the administrative difficulties. Of course, we recognize the historical caregivers, the social, the charitable, the school and all the achievements that religious communities provide. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: Don't forget the cemetery!]] We fully acknowledge them, but with all religious communities. That's why I'm wondering: Why has the Republic of Austria never come up with the idea of at least attempting to rebuild some of the many synagogues in this city, which were burned down in 1938 tabula rasa. These were also God’s houses – but not Catholic!I admit that to you. That's why I'm wondering: How was what you said honestly meant? It was a need for me to say that – also to point to the danger that you think I am moralizing. But you don’t have to let everything happen, what others later say, just because you were the first speaker! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e22100	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Stadler. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e22121	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The Austrian People's Party makes us happy; Mr Schwarzenberger has already said that this polarization is good for the ÖVP. She is happy to have a little cultural struggle of the 19th century. ==References== This is not just what you meant by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), Mr Khol. One can stand on the proposals and the attitude of the Liberal Forum towards the Catholic Church and also on the other Christian denominations as one wants. I am also of your opinion that they basically show an anti-Clerical attitude. I was also annoyed at how the party president at the time treated Cardinal Groer. Mr Khol! But if you are talking about "sacrifice" – if only the colleague Khol speaks of "sacrifice", who would most like to show his own saint's light here! – then don’t miss a certain picacy, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Khol! Where were you when your fellow countryman and party friend Dinkhauser cut down a bishop of this country in the most blatant way? Where was the "saint Andreas" at that time? Has the "saint Andreas" behaved in the same way against the way in which Ms. Schmidt dealt with Cardinal Groer at the time? Where has the Austrian People's Party been during the last 25 years with the school policy you have contributed, partly even through your own teaching ministers? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Where have you been in foreign policy for the last 25 years – in view of the fact that we know today that the second largest religious community in our country is no longer a Christian, rather "saint Andreas", but now the Islamic religious community? That was your policy! For 25 years you have pursued this policy! But today You get out of here and say: Values are at risk because the reporting note is changed.- Oh, my God! Ladies and gentlemen! Values do not depend on registrations in this country! Values depend on the actual daily policy that you have truly not made over the past 25 years to the glory of your high "c" in your party name and your party name! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I understand your jealousy! Now you're scared! They are afraid because a party says that the cultural struggle is going on on a completely different level today, that the cultural struggle of the last century is a passé. Now you're afraid of your voters! That's quite clear! Therefore, jealousy is looked at whether there are "true" or "not true" Christians. It says ex cathedra "His Holiness", Andreas, his sign ÖVP-Klubobmann, who is true Christian and who is not true Christian. – Minister of State! Are you a true Christian? Have you brought your club chairman's resolution yet? I don't know how you're being estimated! He knows: He is a true Christian – and all the others who have not received the resolution from him are not Christians. Ladies and gentlemen! True Christians confess themselves on a recordboard. The principle of confession is the principle that characterizes our relationship between state and religious communities. It's the principle of confession! Whoever confesses to his religious community and to his church – this is a little more than a religious community – he also writes his confession on the record. And if this is not his concern and he no longer wants to confess to his religious community and to his church, then he does not write it on it. If you had read our party program carefully and by the way also your own, your true or false Christian colleague from the Austrian People's Party Fassleven... [[Federal Minister Dr. Fassleven: I am a warring Christian!]] You're a warring Christian? That does not mean that you are a true Christian yet! Remember that! [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] That's what your own clubman said! Watch out! They have written the party program, and in it is also about the institutional separation of state and church. The institutional separation is also set out in our Party Programme draft. And "institutional separation of state and church" means freeing people from confessing themselves, and not punishing them for not wanting to confess. That is what our request is aimed at! That is why I am not obliged, Mr Khol, to put Christianity and the country of the evening at risk, only if we propose today that in the future the report should be published voluntarily and with no penalty for its religious commitment and its church membership. The Catholic Church – I know that too, because I have been dealing with this question – has data in sufficient quantity to determine the membership of a Catholic Christian to the Church and to achieve the requirement for contributions and the intrusion of contributions. Thank God there is also the possibility – I say now – of dedicating his church contribution to what I think is a very reasonable innovation. If we had proposed this a few years ago, we would probably have negotiated "His Holiness", Andreas von Khol, the Bannfluch and the Excommunication! Ladies and gentlemen! The question is how to stand on the principle of confession, on the institutional separation of state and church, which must not be spiritual. I miss your attitude, Mr Khol. Here again and again a contribution to the debate, which can then be sent to certain circles, is the one side of politics. However, they have contributed to the developments that have occurred in recent decades, especially in the last ten years, also in day-to-day policy – I have already mentioned it: social policy, school-political, foreign-political. But if you are still playing brave Christians, I have to tell you: This is a little too much of the hypocrisy! – Don’t be angry with me, but that’s really a little too much of the hypocrisy! That's why I urge you: Go inside! Don't see the splitter in the eye of the other! Recognize the beam in your own eye!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e22180	No one is reporting on this. The debate is therefore closed. I do not have a wish for a final word on the part of the rapporteur. We therefore come to the vote. We shall vote on the request of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report in 775 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign on this. – The request was adopted by a majority. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Look, the speech has worked to agree with the liberals, they are afraid!]] We shall also vote on Mrs Partik-Pablé's motion for a resolution on the report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to the request for a Partik-Pablé sign in this regard. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. 14. Point Report by the National Defence Committee on the report of the Federal Minister for Defence (III-76 and III-76 of the Supplements) on the annual reports 1994 and 1995 of the Board of Appeal in military matters and the opinion of the Federal Minister for Defence (827 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e22233	We get to the 14th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First speaker is Mr Wabl. The speaking time of 5 minutes is not a voluntary one, but the one that is left for the Greens. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e22261	Thank you, Mr President. – Thank you, Minister of State, for the firings! Front: The establishment of a Board of Appeal is a very wise one, and according to my information it also works very well. Ladies and gentlemen! We have held a strong debate in the Committee on the very strange opinion of the Federal Minister for Defence, who clearly believes that the Commission on Appeal is an auxiliary body of the Ministry of State Defense. There has been a very intense discussion in Hiezu, and the Federal Minister has obviously not been willing to speak clear words. Ladies and gentlemen! I consider this to be a great manco of this Board of Appeal, which works in itself excellent, although it would be reasonable to elect the chairmen of the Board of Appeal in the future, similar to the People's Procuratorate. The fact that the liberals are also represented as chairman in this Board of Appeal has to do with the history of this Commission of Appeal: Similar to the People's Procuratorate, the Freeman was simply given a seat to involve her in this area. I would think that the right choice by this House is a democratic political one. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen! However, it is very difficult in connection with the Board of Appeal that the number of complaints is substantially increasing, although the absolute number of those present is falling. Of course, this may also have to do with the increase in the self-confidence of the soldiers and the increase in both the frequency and the possibilities for complaints and the improvement of access. But if I look at the two annual reports, I have to say: Mr. Federal Minister, in our federal army there are profoundly undemocratic states, especially in the city of Vienna, where there are numerous complaints about maltreatment, for example in connection with trainers who cry out to heaven. Many trainers obviously feel that they can act authoritarianally as they did 30, 40, or 50 years ago! Ladies and gentlemen! We can say that many states in the Federal Army do not change at all, although they are constantly being reported to the Federal Government about certain maladministrations and the Commission of Appeals in an annual report presents these complaints in a minutely manner. I would also like to say that these reports should actually be sent to Parliament every year. It would also be very useful if, on certain serious occasions, the Commission could go directly to Parliament and not always wait for an entire report. I'm sure that would be useful. This is done very successfully in Germany, for example. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to stress that the rejection of the two reports does not have to do with the preparation of the reports and with the work of the Board of Appeal, but rather with the rejection of the states themselves. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e22315	The next speaker is Mr Murauer. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e22336	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, the Commission's report from 1994 and 1995 is not very up-to-date. On this point, I am unfortunately right about God – or I would like – colleagues Wabl. What is more, the consequences that have been drawn out of these reports by the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs or by the Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs, and I will return to them. Of course, the report is not spectacular, but consists of a list of the complaints of the present-day servants, of the cadre staff. These complaints are listed, assigned, and we are put to the discussion of the form in which this account is taken. The Board of Appeal has the 350. Working session presented to the public. I think that should be mentioned on this occasion. Since 1993, it has been mandated by the National Council; it is an instrument which practically every army knows and has. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Our Complaints Commission – and I can say that with great satisfaction – will fulfil its task of dealing objectively and quickly with all extraordinary complaints, as I believe, with great commitment. These reports can be seen from the fact that the examination and complaints refer to both the domestic and, in particular, to the use of Austrian quotas for the United Nations. Of course, the basic defence servants are increasingly involved in the path of extraordinary complaint. This is certainly due to the fact that our basic defence servants are powerful, take their stand for the Wehr and find the way to the Com mission of Appeal across Austria easy. However, I would also like to point out that, especially in the case of basic defence servants, it is not always fully understood that there must be strict command structures, consistent compliance with the service and the orders. Therefore, in this area, then and when, there is a grate hike. Ladies and gentlemen! I also take this debate to the point that the Board of Appeal is acting in accordance with its legal mandate, but also on the basis of its practical exercise, independent of the Ministry and the Minister, entirely in the sense of its task. Mr Wabl! On the subject of occupation, I believe that this Commission has high political authority, since all parties, government parties and opposition are represented and decisions have been taken unanimously for decades. – This is clearly what this Commission is doing. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! They will have considered the statistical part of the reports, so I do not need to look at them more closely. But I would like to mention something: The reports highlight the complaints and analyse them for processing; however, nothing is said about the vast majority of correct procedures. In the sense of this report, I would therefore like to stress the achievements of our dedicated soldiers, officers and presenters. In this discussion, thanks to our house and to the public, all those who do this service for our state also apply! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Ofner.]] You will have read that there were 2,000 calls alone in the service office, and this office was able to handle these 2,000 calls correctly, immediately and consistently, in addition to the other complaints. If you correct the sum of the complaints and subtract those that are identical or similar, then from 1994 to 1995, you will notice an increase of 215 to 253 cases, i.e. an increase of 34 cases, and that is not spectacular. However, as mentioned above, this service office has also received another 2 000 calls. Each soldier – at the local rate – can complain unbureaucratically and directly under number 0660/5178. Ladies and gentlemen! There is a powerful organisation behind it with excellent professionals and great willingness to coordinate and cooperate with all those involved. I would like to thank the head of this office, Dr. Pietsch, and the head of Section II, Dr. Harasek, as well as the Disciplinary Department. You do excellent work! I would like to mention the consequences of this report: First of all, I would like to point out that there has been a significant improvement in the training of trainers at the Enns Army Subsidiary Academy. There special emphasis was placed on educational training. A 50 per cent extension of the teaching content was made. In addition, a practical semester is planned at the military academy, and teaching in military pedagogy and leadership behaviour is intensified. Inclusion of university courses at the University of Linz is particularly intended for the training of teachers. On this point we have consistently taken account of the report, ladies and gentlemen, and therefore the number of complaints concerning leadership and management weaknesses has also fallen. I would like to point out that between 1994 and 1995, the number of complaints about leadership has dropped from 410 to 213, 48 percent. This can be seen, and we note this development in a further series. It is not fair and does not correspond to the facts when some newspapers, in connection with the reports of the Board of Appeal, believe that there are only "sleepers" in the German army and that there is brutality there. These are more of the exceptions. The rule is to try to fulfil the tasks of the federal army and the national defence. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Finally, as a member of the Committee on Appeal, I would like to thank Mr Fassleven for the fact that he really understands our Commission and shows the willingness to change shown maladministration. I think that in this form we will continue to be able to work successfully for our federal army.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e22419	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Tychtl. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e22440	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The 1994 and 1995 annual reports, which are in the process of debate today, certainly do not contribute to the brightening of daily policy and are certainly not suitable to present something serious new. But they offer the opportunity to draw comparisons, from 1994 to 1995 and 1996 to part of 1997. Before I come to this, I should like to thank the Federal Minister and the President of the National Council, both of whom, in a very impressive and definite way, have presented the position of the Federal Committee on Complaints as a parliamentary body. That is why I assume that in the future, too, those who have so far been in doubt about whether this Commission is a parliamentary body or only, as has once been figured out, a "help body" by the Minister of State, that such doubts have been removed and that it is now clearly established that: The Board of Appeal is a parliamentary body. I would like to thank the Federal Minister for having done so in the 350. This Commission meeting has been very impressively clarified. Another thanksgiving is addressed to those who always support us in this activity. I know one thing with the Federal Minister, who does this in a special way whenever there is a man's need and when we turn to him with questions. Then the support from his side to date has always been very good, yes excellent, and I know he appreciates our work. I would also like to thank the head of Section II, Mr Mag. Harasek, including who is a very competent contact person for us and who participates in each meeting as an advisory body. I would not like to miss out on thanking the employees of his section for their cooperation, participation and cooperation. Our head of the office, Dr. Pietsch, and his staff, deserve a special tribute, who always support our work in an excellent way. When they prepare the meetings, they go far beyond the actual Pensum of their mission. They do not actually have a term of service, but they are always there when they are needed. I would like to thank them in every way on behalf of my group. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would now like to follow a few words on the reports under discussion and start by saying that it is striking that the number of complaints in 1994 and 1995 has increased. The complainants' heavy weight was mostly on poor management behaviour, on matters of training and service and, above all, on personnel matters. It is also interesting to note that almost 50 percent of cases were granted in 1994 in connection with the completion of the complaint, 40 percent of cases in 1995 and 70 percent in 1996. As it seems, the value is likely to be similar in 1997. Now you'll ask yourself: What are the main cases? - I've looked at some of them. It is always noticed – and my previous speaker rightly pointed out – that training has contributed a great deal to the fact that a lot of things have improved, yes, I would like to say very much. In spite of all of this, however, there are still some outsiders, and I am of the opinion that every outsider is too much. We must focus on this and act more strongly on training so that something can not happen. It is a question of not having the subofficials in the selection procedure for the course at the Sub-official Academy to let those things remain in custody, so to speak, in the long-term memory, and finally lead to the fact that, for example, one can read in the newspaper, that in the German army, "liegestütz-tages" are still possible, on which, for example, 100 lying support can be completed over the day, for example, or that a particularly "creative" trainer may tend to make the following consideration: What could you do if an indoor man with a plaster foot stood in front of one? – At the moment one has no use for him, but then one sees grass growing in the barracks yard between the stones and notes that the good man could plow grass lying down. I don't think it can be! [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Really not!]] I also notice that often, as I think, thoughtlessness really leads to certain results. There are interesting cases such as: A laundry exchange is not possible because there are no larger shirts than those with collar 37. Thank God no one thought to cut the soldiers' necks to 37. I am glad that this could have been the next step. A very up-to-date case: There is no fresh laundry available because the washing machine is broken and the laundry does not deliver. Or: There is no head pad because the head pads had to be provided for Albania's use and others were not available. But that's where I wonder: What about the storage? [[Abg. Nürnberger: Geri, that can't be all you say!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is a state of insanity!]] [[Call:This comes from the Gruselkabinett]] I said that these are outsiders, but they cannot be taken, but they must be shown, and I know one thing with the Federal Minister that he is concerned to stop this. It will also be stopped in the moment we get to know about it. If the Board of Appeal appears there, it is possible in a very short time to stop such things. I therefore believe that the establishment of the Com mission of Appeal is not only very important, but it is a link to the Minister of State in order to bring about changes very quickly. Because, obviously, it often takes the famous start to get something moving. I think we have a good setup and can move a lot. Federal Minister! What we still need is not only to maintain this good cooperation, but to further develop towards leadership and, above all, to monitor the service. Service supervision often seems to be very neglected, otherwise such things could not happen. Another proof of this is this: If you look at the statistics, you notice that a very high level of complaints, i.e. 60 percent, refers to officers. This only results from the supervision of the service, because subordinates speak out for the ultimate officer. That is why increased supervision is required, and I would ask you to continue, so to speak, to the extent that this activity can continue to be pursued. Moreover, we must strive to intervene very quickly and determinedly in the face of difficulties abroad, as in the past. It has been shown that there was no single case where we were going, in which a 100 per cent reconnaissance rate could not be achieved immediately and that things were finally stopped. Federal Minister! In this context, I would also like to thank you very much for the rapid support in the most recent case, in which we have once again undertaken to act very quickly. I am convinced that we will also bring a good result home. One last point: I would ask you to continue in the future to ensure that the German Parliamentary Commission on Complaints is made available to it by the legislator, both in the area of infrastructure and beyond, so that it is ensured at all times that, if there is a need for man, we can go to the barracks and on the spot. I believe that we are doing a good job for our soldiers, the Republic and our federal army. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: speaking time!]] I should like to invite everyone, including Mr Kukacka, to whom it burns under the nails. Perhaps he will be able to participate next time in the Board of Appeal and to act in this respect. - Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e22536	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Ofner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e22557	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! I have stayed 5 minutes of today's speaking time, and after me two more speakers of my group will speak. So I don't forget. First of all, I should like to begin by expressing my thanks to all those who have made themselves worthy in connection with the work of the Board of Appeal. The Commission and its activities in the area of the army naturally do not only concern friends and constituencies. The persons concerned react differently: In part, they take the view that the Board of Appeal is a foreign body – from the waiting of the state defense. That's right, and we don't see anything devaluing in it either. From this point of view, it is really a foreign body, but it is a parliamentary test facility. The others take the view that we are in fact part of the state defense, something like a sub-division of the Ministry of Defence. They can only be assumed that they have not read the law and the comments that exist and that they have not taken account of the processes which led to the Commission's being drawn up. The Commission is a Parliament's audit body, in which all commentators agree, and Neisser/Ermacora also clearly represents this position in the very important comment. The Commission will also be elected to the National Council as regards the chairmen. The remaining members will be appointed. We have just heard from President Fischer that this is one of the three test bodies in Parliament: Court of Auditors, Public Prosecutors and Complaints Commission. If I may wish for something from just this legislator – so to speak, our "father" – there are some things below which may appear to be minor from the point of view of the National Council, but which we urgently need in the Complaints Commission. This includes the introduction of a limitation provision into the relevant legislation. In fact, the law is strict today, even if, ten years after he has disarmed, a basic defender continues to complain about any action affecting him during his service. That is why a limitation period of about one year is included in this respect. It is also necessary, however, to create a border of luggage. We ourselves have become accustomed to speaking in the Judicature of the fact that there is a degree of inadequacy in the case of objects of appeal which lacks legal relevance. This means, as we all know, that, naturally, the army cannot always do the same because of its task and design as in a folk school – even if it is sometimes the same as in a folk school. It must be, however, that true bagatellan occasions are not actually answered with some sort of guilt. It must be so that one can go the narrow grate between schikane, injustice or injustice on the one hand, and ridiculous complaints dealing with small things, on the other hand, without slipping down on one side or the other. That is why my appeal, my request to the legislator, is: Please introduce, on the next occasion, when it comes to the Wehrgesetz, the limitation on the one hand, and on the other hand, a border of luggage into the relevant regulations, so that we do not need to shoot cannons in order to comply with the will of the legislator. A material detail as long as the light shines red here: It is still true that a full-length ground defense officer is liable if he is negligently – even if with a certain degree of negligence – something happens to him that causes a damage to an object, a weapon or a vehicle. The basic defender, who deserves virtually nothing, often has to do damage to tens of thousands of schilling. This cannot change the fact that sometimes the financial procuratorship on behalf of the Ministry of Finance closes comparisons, so that "only" - under quotation marks - 30 000 S or amounts can be paid in a similar amount. We represent the position: If someone serves the army – and doesn't always like it – and then something doesn't happen to him deafly, but negligently, it just happened and should pay the Republic – and not the affected person himself. That would also be a wish for the legislator.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e22610	Mrs Gredler has now come to speak. You still have 15 minutes of speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e22632	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! You may wonder why I now take the floor. I have been a member of the Federal Committee on Complaints since this time, and I think it is an extremely interesting task to be able to work there as a Member of Parliament with three people in the Bureau, whom I would like to thank now. The Federal Hero of Complaints Commission is really trying to do very fair. This is one of the insights I have gained without expecting it. This was my concern when I came to the Commission. I must say that my expectations have been exceeded. It is really true that complaints, from whomever they may come, are taken very seriously, discussed very fairly and treated equally. Complaints often deal with structural defects in barracks and shortcomings in medical care, the interests of the profession, inadequate equipment with clothing, illicit or harassing training methods, maladministrations in the exercise of troops and cadres or maladministrations and shortcomings in the course of foreign operations. We have recently noticed this when we had two deaths to complain about. I would like to say something about the lack of knowledge of the trainees on the training regulations as a physician. For example, there was the case of a ground defense minister who fell into powerlessness. Immediately, the trainer "acknowledged" that this soldier was a simulant – apparently in the possession of a gift that I could only wish for as a physician. When I see someone falling into powerlessness, I can't immediately differentiate whether it's a simulation, a diabetic event, an epileptic absence or something else. There is a wealth of events to consider. But no, this educator immediately "acknowledged" that this was a simulation, and he breathed life again to this person after a certain period of waiting, by ordering him to take care of him. But because the soldier could not stand up correctly, but became bad again and he fell over again, he was then punished. A really special event, I must say! However, in view of the fact that the training staff may really need to be trained in medical matters and first aid. Because some of the military abilities that I do not trust as a physician may be regarded as a sign of overestimation. Unfortunately, I have to say that the Federal Commission on Complaints is not really adequately equipped. To get 2,000 calls, if you have only one telephone line at your disposal, is already adjacent to a world miracle, since this telephone line is always occupied, and this is not surprising, since there is only one. I hope that if there will be about five to ten lines, then you will be able to satisfy the claim made to this Commission. There are very good employees who are used to react quickly, so surprisingly quickly that I cannot accompany any of their actions when they go to the review. Because if that happens from today to tomorrow, as it is often the case, I come across the cross with my other activities. I would also like to mention the procedure for selecting people for foreign use. It seems necessary to make this happen, because there are obviously problems with it in recent times. One finds no one with adequate training, therefore also takes such persons who have already become conspicuous about complaints, and rewards them by extending the employment in their posts. I believe that, as far as the Austrian federal army is concerned, we should in principle consider whether we can meet any call for foreign intervention if we no longer have staff, or if on the other hand, we might have adequate staff in the reserve to meet the demands that are obviously being made to us to an ever-increasing extent. Federal Minister! That's where you're required.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e22683	The next speaker is Mr Gaál. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e22704	Mr President. Federal Minister! The annual reports for 1994 and 1995 of the Federal Commission on Complaints show clearly and clearly that very good work has been done with a high level of responsibility. The Federal Army Complaint Commission is an institution that is rightly recognized and respected, an important institution with high reputation and importance. The need for this institution is demonstrated by increased use of the Board of Appeal. There is the possibility of telephone requests at the local rate throughout the country, offering excellent service. This claim is very welcome because it is possible to help quickly and unbureaucratically, so that in many cases complaints are no longer necessary. I do not wish to mention that, thanks to improvements in the service sector, a number of causes for complaints have been resolved compared to the previous years. This qualified, committed and highly responsible activity is consistent, but it will increase the motivation and therefore the willingness of the soldiers to use. Federal Minister! What is particularly striking is the number of complaints about structural defects in barracks. In 1994, 47 complaints were filed, and in 1995 it was already 59. This shows, again, that there is a need for action in the area of modernisation and improvement of soldier accommodation and training facilities. Federal Minister! So far, there is no German army's concept of location. In my view, the sale of the no longer needed properties and barracks could open up financial resources which could benefit, on the one hand, from the necessary modernisation of the soldiers' accommodation and training facilities, on the other hand, improve the military's investment opportunities, and thus facilitate long-term procurement for the protection and security of soldiers. I am thinking, above all, of the equipment required for international solidarity and peacekeeping. In doing so, the Federal Government could implement a procurement project decided upon by it which would benefit the local economy, the Austrian workforce and, above all, the protection and security of the soldiers. Federal Minister! Since its very existence, the Federal Heir Commission has been doing valuable work – in the interests of the members of the Federal Army and thus also in the interest of the Austrian state defense. It will continue and intensify this work in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e22748	Mr Fassleven, Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, was next reported. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e22769	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to express my heartfelt thanks to Mr Tychtl, Mr Ofner and Mr Senekovitsch for his work. It has become an indispensable component in the control and handling of incidents, in improving the quality and also in the recognition and processing of defects, e.g. in construction conditions. A warm thank you for this excellent activity! I hope that in the future, too, it will be possible to continue to reduce the number of real incidents by the activities of this Commission. It is not a question of quantity for me, although it is undoubtedly also a merit of this Commission that a very large part of the incidents can actually be handled, but it should succeed in creating a level of quality, as we all wish, and on which both the members of the Austrian federal army and the basic defence workers are entitled. That therefore seems to me of particular importance, because it is undoubtedly not easy to lead young people. They are in a difficult age and live under difficult conditions. Of course there are pressure and very special requirements. From a full demand that we all wish for, sometimes an overload arises, and from the desire to have a troop that is very different and difficult to deal with, there and there always a breach arises. In order to find the right way and the right measure, it is necessary to take a very good view, and this view has so far been applied by the Commission to a particular extent. Thank you! I am convinced that your work will in the future be successful in improving and improving the quality of training and service operations.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e22807	The next speaker is Mr Scheibner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e22829	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As chairman of the Committee, I would also like to thank the members and staff of the Committee on Appeals very much for the important and very labour-intensive activity, and I believe that it is also a very important help for us committee members to gain a greater insight into the operation of the German army, including what is happening in the malaise, and to remedy it there and there, as far as it is possible for us to do so. It has been said today that the number of complaints is increasing. I believe that the number of complaints, as measured by the number of basic defence officials, is relatively low, considering that only about 50 percent of these complaints are actually justified. It is always stressed that very much does not work in training. However, I think that if we first subtracte those complaints concerning matters which are infrastructure or system-related, we can certainly see training in the army. Minister! In connection with infrastructure related things – such as the expansion and renovation of the barracks or the renewal of the equipment – would be It calls for greater improvement in the future than in the past in order to achieve positive effects. Many complaints concern an excess of services, day-to-day services, security services, which are due to the reduction in the basic defence sector and also to the service sector. All these problems are homemade, Mr Federal Minister, and you could fix them relatively quickly and easily if you take them into consideration. The training reform implemented by Section III in recent years can really be positive. I believe that we have achieved world level both in terms of officer training and in terms of sub-official training. Something is interesting: I don't think I'm missing out on the claim that there's no complaint – or I'm just seeing that there's a single case, but that's still very good! – through an instructor who gives a sub-official who has been trained in accordance with the new training guidelines, according to which more attention is paid to psychology and pedagogy. Nevertheless, I think it is necessary for this rod to remain in the window, because – even if it is held – some things have still not been eradicated. The famous structure of the room on the barracks yard or the exercise PAR 2000, where you get various loads, including a wooden trunk, on the back, are always found in these reports. I believe that these things should be in the past slowly and that, in such individual cases, rigorous punishment should take place. It must be clear to everyone in the German army that the basic defense minister is now voluntarily serving with the weapon and that he can be an important promoter of the ideas of the state defense. But even if he has made a really bad experience, about being treated unjustly, this image can also be negatively reversed in the long run. Something else is important to me: This report shows that the number of complaints in the eastern region, especially in Vienna, is higher, so the problems seem to be greater. In view of this, I would like to take a little protection from my regiment, the hunter regiment 2, where I was able to make personal experiences. There are really good trainers there, which shows that it is possible, even in a difficult situation in the big city environment, to motivate basic defenses and to eliminate abuses as far as they are concerned. It should also be noted, however, that, of course, in the context of a large city with all the difficulties we have to struggle with there, perhaps the threshold for bringing a complaint is lower and, therefore, things that would be accepted elsewhere as self-evident will lead to a complaint in Vienna. Generalizations must be avoided anyway. There, where maladministration occurs, they are immediately to be eliminated, for it is really in the sense of the Austrian federal army that one is attacking the solution of problems with all power.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e22880	Mr Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry. The speaking time you still have is 15 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e22901	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is gratifying if, on such a sensitive issue as incidents in the Federal Government, there is uniformity in the House. As a member of the Commission on Appeal, I am pleased that our work is recognised by all political groups. I do not think it is quite natural that the members of five political groups will come to a unanimous decision in case of completely different complaints, some of which are also known to them personally, and find a decision on the matter. I would like to express my thanks to the members of the Board of Appeal, the Presidents and the staff, of course: The documents are good, the quality of the papers provided to us is excellent! The measures are comprehensible and, as a result of this perceptibility of the measures, questions arise. For me, for example, one question is that of disciplinary appreciation: I have the impression very often that, due to the multitude of commanders, the scope of punishment for similar incidents – from the fine to the teaching – is very high. I therefore believe that if we gave him a more concrete tool, for example, a book with instructions on how to punish him, we would do something good not only to the punished, but also to the superintendent. It has also been mentioned several times today that the Board of Appeal is very often called for help, from the Brigadier to the consignee. – I would like to focus on this briefly: Any Austrian, including the military officer, who was in the position, but has not yet received the order of convocation, or has not yet been invaded, has the opportunity to call on the Board of Appeal. There will be more and more such cases in the future. I therefore come to the debate we have held in the Civil Service Report. Mr Maitz, you mentioned that only in justified cases will a delay be granted. We have heard from the Federal Minister that the number of civil servants is stabilizing by about 6 200. – I think we shot at the target here. With this restrictive convocation, we have taken the opportunity to offer more flexibility to the additional command. Federal Minister! I would also like to thank you from this point of view for your efforts to meet young people. But the Federal Minister is also bound by the legal situation! In view of the experience we now have, as I believe, is the average of the right path: It must not be handled as restrictively as it is now, but it must not be done in such a way that upswings up to 35. years of life are granted, as the presence of the service is certainly problematic. It will probably be noted in the future that if we stick to this regulation, more and more young men will make a declaration of civil service in order to prevent the convocation at an date they believe they cannot. Then, as honourable Member Kier said, the impression could indeed be that civil service is a "parking space" for military technicians. Mr Kier, with all appreciation: I do not feel that those who are forced to do civil service, nor those who are in civil service, as military technicians! Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to mention a task that will be assigned to the Board of Appeal: We are seriously concerned with the issue of the admission of women to the army, and in this case the Commission of Appeal will also be required. Mr Gredler mentioned that women are already members of the Board of Appeal. I therefore believe that the Board of Appeal will also be able and able to fulfil these tasks. Finally, I bring a small example of a complaint that shows where to push for a reduction in privileges: In a case of complaint, a military soldier was first granted a winter alpine training from the economy, then refused: Only and only allowed are these winter alpine trainings for members of the resort. – The Board of Appeal, with the support of officials, has responded in this case and has stopped it. Finally, Mr Federal Minister, I would like to say that we must not consider such privileges in connection with women in the army. If there are proposals to set an age limit, except for members of the place of residence, then this proposal is right after complaint! I think we should think about it. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! It is not permitted to close from individual cases to the overall system, but certain individual cases must be eradicated in order to preserve and improve the overall system. The Board of Appeal shall be an appropriate body for this purpose. I like to work with that!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e22969	The last speaker in this debate is Mr Jung. – honourable Member, you only have a speaking time of 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e22990	I shall make the effort to take a short look, Mr President. I would like to mention three points. First: The staff sector is the main area of criticism, the number of complaints is rising. The subject-matter of the complaint is often the duration of service use. – The reason for this: too many services, too long additional training. It's not the military's fault, it's politics. Why? – The convening quotas are too weak, although the Minister has always promised higher numbers. The organization is bad. We are waiting for the military division, but it is only after the elections in Upper Austria. Finally, the longer services are to be mentioned: Of course, the people who are often two months in border guarding must at some point catch up with the training. Second area: Equipment and equipment. Complaints are right, in turn, the debt is not with the force, but with the policy that does not make the money available. And if we look at the budget for the next two years today, we see that it will not be better. The last section: Criticism against procedural questions, unjustified delay in treatment. I can fully agree with this from my own experience. Minister! I myself am waiting for the completion of three legitimate complaints, partly for eight months, and I hope that I will still experience this in your ministerial period, but I am not quite sure if it will last so long. The main challenge is therefore to make the policy, money and organization available in the form necessary to enable the force to meet the requirements laid down in it. Then many of the complaints that are currently justified fall away. But I do not think you will have this force of enforcement, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e23035	There is no more word message. The debate is closed. A final word on the part of reporting has not been required. I would ask you to take the seats, and we shall come to the vote. We shall vote on the request of the National Defence Committee to take note of this report III-76 and III-76 of the supplements. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask for a sign of approval. . This report is largely taken note of. The agenda is exhausted. Request for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e23082	We shall now proceed to the debate on the request of the honourable Members. Chamberlanders and comrades on the establishment of an investigative committee on the responsibility of members of the Federal Government in connection with the free exit of the perpetrators concerning the murder of Dr. Ghassemlou. This request has been distributed to all the Members of this House and there is therefore a lack of reading. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e23133	The debate has not been called for nor has it been decided. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on this request. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a corresponding sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_1997-09-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00084_d7e23169	I would also like to say that at today's sitting, the self-employed were brought in applications 555/A to 563/A. Questions 2902/J to 2924/J were also raised. Finally, a request from Mr Graf and Mr Comrade has been made to the President of the National Council. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for Friday, 19. September 1997, 9 a.m. This meeting will begin with a Question Time. The agenda can be found in the written communication distributed in the hall. The sitting is closed.
