ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e2262	Ladies and gentlemen! I welcome all of you to the most cordial. I also welcome the television audience, because this session is being broadcast live. I ask you to take the seats and open the 60. Meeting of the National Council. The official protocols of 57, 58 and 59. A meeting was held in an up-to-date, unconstrained manner and is therefore deemed approved. For today's sitting, as prevented, the Dkfm Members are reported. Holger Bauer, Dr. Povysil, Dr. Salzl, Dr. Preisinger, Hagenhofer, Großruck, Dr. Schwimmer and Hans Helmut Moser. Absence of mandate and fishing
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e2305	The Federal Electoral Authority has received the notification that Mrs Eleonora Hostaschop has waived her National Council mandate and that Mr Humsin has been appointed to the National Council in her place. Furthermore, in accordance with § 111 of the National Council's Rules of Procedure, Ms. Dr. Helga Konradda's mandate, which on the occasion of her appointment as a member of the Federal Government, was re-allocated, thus leaving the National Council. As there are electoral licences and there are representatives of Hums and Dr. Konrad in the House, I shall immediately make their fishing observation. After reading the vow formula and calling for her name by the female writer, the two mandates will have to do their fishing with the words "I promise". I should now like to ask Mrs Parfuss, as a writer, to read the vow formula and to call for the name.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e2344	"They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your duties."
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e2368	I very much welcome Mrs Konrad and Mr Hums in our midst. [[General condolences.]] Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e2396	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the resolution of the President of the Federal Government concerning the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following statement: The Minister for the Environment, Dr. Bartenstein is represented by Mr. Federal Minister Dr. Fassleven. I would ask you to take note of this. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e2427	I now send to the House the following letter from Mr. Last day's climate to know: "I am honoured to say that the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, with his resolution of 28. January 1997... in accordance with Article 74(l) 3 Federal Constitutional Act the Federal Minister for Women's Affairs Dr. Helga Konrad, Federal Minister for Health and Consumer Protection Dr. Christa Krammer, Federal Minister for Labour and Social Affairs Franz Hums, Federal Minister for Internal Affairs Dr. Caspar Einm, Federal Minister for Science, Transport and Arts Dr. Rudolf Scholten and the State Secretary at the Federal Chancellor's Office Mag. Karl Schlögl, Art. 78 para. 2 in conjunction with Article 74(1). 3 Federal Constitutional Law of its offices. With the same resolution, the President of the Federal Republic of Germany has, in accordance with Rule 74(1). 3 Federal Constitutional Law deposed me from the office as Federal Minister for Finance and in accordance with Article 70 para. 1 Federal Constitutional Act appointed Federal Chancellor. In addition, the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, in accordance with Rule 70, has adopted this resolution. 1 Federal Constitutional Act appointed on my proposal: Councillor Rudolf Edlingerto the Federal Minister for Finance, State Secretary, D. Mag. Karl Schlöglzum Federal Minister for the Interior, Federal Minister Dr Caspar The Federal Minister for Science, Transport and Art, the President of the Federal Chamber of Labour Eleonora Hostashzur Federal Minister for Labour and Social Affairs and in accordance with Article 70(1). 1 in conjunction with Article 78(1). 1 Federal Constitutional Act Landesratin Mag. Barbara Prammerzur Federal Minister without a portfolio. In addition, on my proposal, the President of the Federal Republic of Germany has, in accordance with Rule 70(1) of the Rules of Procedure. 1 in conjunction with Article 77(1). 4 Federal Constitutional Act until an amendment of the Federal Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs Act, the Federal Minister for Labour and Social Affairs Eleonora Hostasch is entrusted with the management of the Federal Ministry of Health and Consumer Protection. Finally, on my proposal, the President of the Federal Republic of Germany has, in accordance with Rule 70(1). 1 in conjunction with Article 78(1). 2 Federal Constitutional Act appointed: Mayor Dr. Peter Wittmannon behalf of the State Secretary and to support the management and parliamentary representation of the Federal Chancellor and Dr. Wolfgang Ruttenstorferto the State Secretary and for support in the management and parliamentary representation attached to the Federal Minister for Finance. Best regards Viktor Klima" This letter is for knowledge and is in accordance with § 21 para. 3 GOG after entry into the agenda for negotiation. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e2538	As regards the negotiating items and their allocations, I refer, pursuant to § 23 of the Rules of Procedure, to the written communication distributed in the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Aside from the 24 hour lead-in period
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e2637	In order to be able to negotiate item 2 of the agenda, it is according to § 44 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure required to waive the 24 hours of the term of office. This decision of the National Council requires a two-thirds majority. This is the report of the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 380/A by Dr Kostelka, Dr. Khol and Comrades on a federal law amending the Federal Ministry Act (579 of Supplements). I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to the withdrawal from the time-limit to give a sign of approval. – I note that this is so decided with the required two-thirds majority. Request for a debate pursuant to § 81 GOG
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e2669	There is a desire to hold a debate, based on § 81 of the Rules of Procedure, following the Federal Chancellor's statement, which will now be followed. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e2690	It is also proposed that the debate on points 1 and 2 of the agenda be held under one. I ask the House if there are any objections to this. - That's not the case. Then we're going to do this by common accord. Time limits for speaking time
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e2715	I shall now go into the agenda. In the presidential conference, consensus was reached on the following procedure with regard to the debate: A block speaking time of 7 "Vienna hours" has been agreed. This gives rise to the following speaking times: SPÖ Group 105 minutes, ÖVP 98 minutes, Freedom 91 minutes, Liberal Forum and Greens per 63 minutes speaking time. Then to the Federal Chancellor's statement, first of all, we have agreed to speak of each group as a speaker, then Mr Vice-Chancellor will speak. Finally, it has been agreed that if other members of the government report, their voluntary speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. However, if this is the case, this will be taken into account by the associated political groups. I also ask here: Is there any objections to this procedure? – That's not the case. Then we determined this by common accord. 1. Point Declaration by the Federal Chancellor 2. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 380/A by Dr Peter Kostelka, Dr. Andreas Kholund Comrades on a Federal Act amending the Federal Ministry's Act 1986 (579 of Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e2776	We are therefore going to the points 1 and 2 of today's agenda, which are being negotiated together. I can now see Mr. Federal Chancellor Mag. Climate to give the floor to his statement. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e2800	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! After the resignation of Federal Chancellor Dr. Vrannitzky, the President of the Federal Republic of Germany commissioned me with the formation of government and appointed the new members of the Federal Government according to my proposal. I stand here today in front of you, the elected representatives of the Austrians, to introduce this Federal Government to you. ==References== In December 1995, the Austrians of the Social Democratic Party and the Austrian People's Party gave a clear majority to form a government. These two parties, in a coalition agreement, adopted the guidelines for government work during the next legislative period. I have signed and signed this agreement. I recognise the cooperation of this coalition until the end of the legislative period, and it will be a successful cooperation, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I would ask you to understand that I am breaking up with an old tradition and today I am not addressing all the points that are usually addressed in a declaration of government, because it was only a few months ago that this House was given a declaration of government. I would rather like to deal with two issues in my declaration today: our challenges, the challenges of Austria that we face at the threshold to the new millennium, and the presentation of the key priorities of our government work. Ladies and gentlemen! We will consistently implement these priorities in this government and also address these challenges. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Let me begin with a few words on the government work of last year. This year, many things are not fast enough, some are also accompanied by criticism, but many have already been successfully implemented. We have jointly established a consolidation programme which will bring the budget deficit under control and, unlike other countries, this consolidation could be achieved without any danger to social peace in our country. It ensures that Austria will meet all the criteria for entry into the European Monetary Union, and this, ladies and gentlemen, is an internationally recognized achievement of all Austrians. Thank you for that! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] We have not only prepared budget programmes, we have also achieved this budget very consistently and very successfully. In 1996, ladies and gentlemen, we have achieved for the first time in five years that the federal deficit was below the estimated value. Furthermore, together with the countries, cities and communities, we have completed a financial compensation beyond the millennium. We have found through a consultation mechanism a new quality of financial cooperation between the federal, state and local authorities. This is not only necessary to ensure stability in the future, but also a strong step towards federalism. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This Federal Government has also put in place a number of concrete employment measures in the field of construction, waste disposal, water management and much more. We have created the legal framework for the important support of this sector, for better and more stable jobs, with a support law for small and medium-sized enterprises. In spite of the changes required by the accession of the EU, agricultural incomes could be secured. It has been created with the disseminating of the Federal Forests an exemplary project of marketable power units for the management of federal assets. Together with the countries, municipalities and social security institutions, we have ensured the financing of hospitals in our health system, knowing that this area outside the hospital needs further reforms. Ladies and gentlemen! We have increased the use of health care, rehabilitation and qualification measures together with legal measures to bring about the actual retirement age at the legal boundaries. Although we have not been able to provide the billions we want, 600 million schilling as support for childcare facilities in order to facilitate the work of women and men with children. In the school sector, the legal requirements were created to intensify and continue the integration of students with special educational needs. The autonomy of schools has been expanded. Ladies and gentlemen! The law against violence in the family is an important step towards protecting victims in particularly difficult situations. Intervention agencies against violence in the family ensure a corresponding supplement and implementation of legal measures. In good cooperation, however, we have also promoted the preparations for the international and national presidency of the European Union with all the members of the government and are on a good path here. This, Hohes Haus, was only possible through the cooperation of the two government parties, a cooperation that took place in the last decade under the leadership of Dr. Franz Vranitzky – a decade that will always be inseparably linked to his name in the history of the Second Republic! [[Lively applause with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] He had the courage and moral integrity to find clear and ambiguous words as the first head of government for the role of Austria in National Socialism. He has also demonstrated the strength to be careful in the European Union together with our government partner Austria. I hope that on your behalf – I am sure I can do so on behalf of the Federal Government – I can thank Mr Franz Vrannitzky for his work in the service of our Republic! [[Lively applause with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Thank you very much also to the members of the Federal Government, who have been expelled from their functions with the passing day. You've done a lot for our country! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We Austrians are rightly proud of what we achieved after the Second World War: from the reconstruction to the development of the modern industrial state to the full-fledged member in a new Europe. Austria is a successful country. Nevertheless, there are contradictions that we must recognize and recognize. We have great prosperity, we are the third most rich country in the European Union – but at the same time there are poverty and people who are approaching the border to poverty. We have an increasing absolute number of employees – nevertheless, there is an increasing number of unemployed people. [[Abg. May. Stadler: How long have you been ruling?]] The crime rate is falling – yet there is a subjective feeling of insecurity in the population. [[Abg. Scheibner: Mourning speech! Sad sitting!]] This is just a small selection of signs of fundamental upheavals that our world is currently experiencing. Lester Thurow describes this with a picture of tectonic plates, which hardly noticeably but unstoppably move on to each other and finally collide. [[Abg. Scheibner: And those who cause an earthquake!]] The subsequent changes lead to dislocations and outbreaks, which in their sudden occurrence are only understandable if one recognizes the slow but constant changes under them. Many things are moving, ladies and gentlemen, which have already led to an eruption. [[Abg. Discs: Plates cause changes!]] Communism in Europe, Cold War, two opposite superpowers are history. [[Abg. May. Stadler: It was once!]] [[Call the liberals: fairy tales!]] Our time is a time of differentiation of the international balance of forces, in which a new international order first develops. The rise of new economic powers, the increasing internationalisation – the "globalisation" keyword – and new automation technologies have created completely new economic conditions. We now live in an economic world where speed, adaptability and innovation count. No company and no country can rely on traditional competitive advantages anymore. Incessant liberalisation strengthens competition in our markets. In addition, as a result of the political changes in the east of our country, Austria is in a new situation, with new competitors but also new opportunities. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! New technologies, the information society not only change the economy and the working world, but also the everyday life of politics. The industrialized countries are in a profound change of social and political values. Individualization, autonomous lifestyle, decoupling of politics and economy as well as emancipation of states and parties are noticeable and noticeable for each of us. These upheavals will permanently change our lives, our working world, our political system and determine the future. It is only too human that these changes create uncertainty. Many people in Austria are afraid of the future, fear of this unknown change to the new millennium and fears of the post-war period. Ladies and gentlemen! These fears cannot be addressed with statistics, with objective data, but we must listen to these fears, take them seriously and offer prospects. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Values thrown overboard!]] These changes will come – whether we want or not. We can't escape! They will threaten us if we do not shape and do not ensure that economic and social change is not directed against people. I don't have a naïve future optimism. It is the fact that many people in our country are affected and threatened by these developments. The loss of the workplace, the devaluation of their own qualifications and isolation are real hazards. Speed and adaptability are good for those who have grown these requirements. But there is a danger that large parts of our population will be pushed out of society. Our natural resources are at risk in many ways. The experience of these diverse threats at the individual and social level creates the danger of the political interdependence of social groups. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Policy not only has the duty to address these dangers, but it also has the opportunity to do so if it gives the necessary will! Social cohesion and economic competitiveness are not contradictions. There is also no contradiction between diversity in unity. This applies to the common Europe as well as to society, in which individual development and the expansion of democracy must be possible. What we need, ladies and gentlemen, is the courage to change. We need this courage to break up obsolete structures which, through bureaucratic barriers, affect the creation of new jobs and new businesses; to be open to new developments, for example, to new technologies, but also to new forms of work; to win world openness, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. May. Stadler: The turn-on rates are falling, Mr. Federal Chancellor!]] This means going out actively, on the one hand, to conscious learning from others, to the comparison of one's own system, one's own habits and rules, with other countries and other institutions – in the Anglo-Saxon region, one often calls the "best practice" models – on the other hand, that is to say, active participation at international and European level. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is not a goal-setting policy to remove the obstacles to people and then leave them alone. It must support people, enable them and give them the ability to deal with these changes, this openness and the insecurity associated with them. Allow me to give you two examples. No one can guarantee that a person will have the same job throughout his working life. The fundamental structural change leads to job losses. We must ensure that training, the qualifications, the self-confidence and the strength needed to find a new job. We must teach mobility, mobility for new jobs, which is one of the central tasks of the Federal Government and of all of us. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] At the same time, however, ladies and gentlemen, we must ensure that the forecarnage, the acceptance of new challenges is possible without fear, without fear of losing existence in the event of a failure. This means that we have to adapt our social system in such a way as to allow mobility, to promote it and to fear it. Ladies and gentlemen! In summary, this means: Austria will change! We must all be open to the new millennium, and we must understand the change as an opportunity. High house! What are the central priorities of government work? – The fight against unemployment is undoubtedly the central question of the future! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] However, we know – and must say it openly – that there is no longer a patent recipe for it, especially in a world with open markets. Despite best efforts, we cannot in any case prevent the loss of businesses or jobs. What we can do, however, is to contribute, with a large number of coordinated measures, to the creation of new jobs and the reduction of unemployment. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We need a modern and efficient infrastructure that is attractive to Austria as an industrial location, for example in the field of telecommunications, transport and energy. We will need new ways of financing, cooperation between public and private sources of funding. We will ensure that employment-intensive projects take precedence, and we will have to take advantage of the role of the public hand as a demander of innovative products, for example in the field of information technology. However, we will also promote investment in private capital and competition through orderly liberalisation. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Federal employment policies will be geared towards sustainable development. For example, development and use of environmental technologies are not only necessary to maintain our quality of life, but can and will also be created new products and new markets. There are enough examples of this, I mention only the use of thermal insulation measures for the federal buildings and more. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Government has also set itself the goal of further increasing exports. The current export offensive will in future consider better coordination of existing possibilities. We have undertaken with the coalition partner to enable a new form of work on concrete projects. For example, in the field of export, a working group will be set up, not only members of the Federal Government, but also recognized, experienced experts from the economy, large businesses and small and medium-sized enterprises, in order to actually fulfil the important task of export support for the Austrian economy. We will ensure that Austrian companies in the export industry find the same conditions on the market as their competitors, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] We know that in the field of small and medium-sized enterprises most jobs are created. Therefore, we will have to support this sector very much: by removing unnecessary bureaucratic obstacles, but also by other measures, such as with regard to the equity sector and much more, which strengthens the survival and development of these companies. For example, the reform of the Industrial Code is a particularly important concern, to which a government template for administrative simplification in plant law has already been sent to the House in a first step. A government template to liberalise access rights will be completed shortly. This, ladies and gentlemen, is one of the measures we are convinced that it will bring new opportunities for small and medium-sized enterprises and therefore for jobs in small and medium-sized enterprises. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] The lack of equity of Austrian companies will be countered by further reforms in the capital market. Promotions will be – without casting can! – primarily focus on the ability to innovation, regional networking, cooperation with science and research and the development of new markets. High house! The investment of international companies in Austria is important for us. Foreign investors, whom we have been interested in through a comprehensive location policy for Austria, will continue to be actively addressed by a comprehensive location marketing in the future. But I say, without any kind of chauvinism, that the Federal Government will do everything within the framework of an Austrian strategy to ensure that decision-making centres of companies remain in important core areas in our country, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] – Only in this way can we preserve the scope of design and ensure the continuation of high-quality jobs. High house! The focus of labour market policy must not be on managing and providing unemployment. The focus must be on an active labour market policy that counters all the adverse effects of the loss of a job – from the loss of skills to the loss of self-esteem and motivation to the increasing difficulties in reintegration – and which constitutes an effective means of mediation. However, we also need openness to new forms of work and greater flexibility in the work organisation, making an important contribution to job security. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] But one must be clear: Such developments may not only go at the expense of one side. However, if the balance between workers' and employers' rights is maintained, flexibilisation will find the right acceptance, then it will be an active instrument of innovation and will provide additional jobs. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In the context of employment policy, I would also like to say quite deliberately a sentence on budgetary policy. With the consolidation programme last year, we took a large and sustainable step towards rehabilitating our state budget. We have not done this as a self-evident and not to meet any convergence criteria. Consolidation is necessary in order to maintain the attractiveness of our business location in Austria and to maintain or bring to Austria domestic and foreign investors who provide employment. This is also necessary in order to ensure the stability of our currency in order to regain the fiscal scope for action. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, consolidation means the possibility of maintaining and safeguarding employment. For this reason – and I say this clearly – it will continue in the future of the consolidation course. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] The budgets for 1998 and 1999 will be drawn up by the summer of this year on the basis of the budget programme. The tax and tax rate will tend to decline again in this programme. Expenditure growth will continue to be slowed down. Ladies and gentlemen! This consolidation will reduce the ever-increasing share of government debt interest on government expenditure, giving us again financial scope for long-term employment security. Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me to say that I believe that, in addition to what was possible in 1996 and 1997, we will no longer need, with consistent and disciplined implementation of the 1997 budget and corresponding reforms for the years 1998 and 1999, tax packages for the Austrian population. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! As I said earlier, we live – measured in statistical data – in a rich country. Nevertheless, there is poverty. And that makes me personally affected. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: The SPÖ has been in power for too long!]] Poverty can affect everyone: People who lose their jobs, single mothers or low-income families, sick or needy people. In addition to financial problems, this also often leads to social isolation. We must not individualise the problems of these people, we must not blame them individually. Ladies and gentlemen! We must not ban these people by means of abuse debates. We must fight poverty firmly! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] The Federal Government has the task of ensuring social cohesion in our society. Work, health, social security and education are essential cornerstones of our social policy, which is undisputed – and this is also to be said clearly and openly – that there is a need for modernisation, namely the need for modernisation in order to maintain our social state, the need for modernisation, because social development requires adaptations with increasingly freely chosen forms of life. For example, transfers should be concentrated on those people they really need. Ladies and gentlemen! I am convinced that this common social policy not only receives the status of the third country in Europe, but also will lead to a successful fight against poverty. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In our society, women still do not have the same opportunities in working life as men. Women have more burdens from work and family. But we cannot afford it – I emphasize: we cannot afford it! – to abandon the skills and talents of more than half of this society. [[Abg. May. Stoisits: (shown on the government bank) But this is not the case with this government!]] We need work and life forms that make it possible for women to develop fully. Women's social and economic equality is an important concern for this Federal Government. And we will be very successful in this, ladies and gentlemen, by the Federal Ministry for Women's Affairs, which will also take over other important areas of responsibility in the future. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Special attention must also be paid to youth. We know from our own experience, from our own children, that it is not easy for young people. Overwhelming curriculums, constant compulsion to success, short teaching courses, little leisure time and fear of the future affect their lives. We need people who enjoy life and learn for the next millennium. To this end, we need an educational policy which, as I believe, has already begun in substantial steps by Mrs Gehrer, the Federal Minister of Education, namely an educational policy that allows the personal development of young people as best as possible and promotes their willingness to do so and creativity. Let's scramble the curriculum! Let us use the use of new technologies in schools! Even in training, this necessary willingness to change, this necessary willingness to mobility, this flexible approach to new challenges must be shared. Youth unemployment in Austria is significantly below the European level – and yet we are confronted with increasing numbers of job seekers. It is important to jointly expand the range of courses offered by the economy. A bundle of measures by the Federal Government is intended to ensure the right of training for all young people. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] A modern policy must also train young people in new careers and in new occupations. Young people must also learn to claim themselves in the working world, in a working world that is constantly changing. Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Government will and must be able to maintain Austria's leading place of work in Europe with these measures. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] At universities, high drop-out rates and a long international study duration are the expression of non-optimal development. [[Call the Freeman:32 semesters!]] The new study law is intended to provide a faster adaptation of the study offer to new conditions and new needs. The legal framework conditions for new, more powerful and economical universities have been created and will improve the quality of student training. In addition to the good offer of higher schools, the successful way of promoting vocational education and training is to continue. In addition to the already existing economic and technical focus, the specialist universities will develop priority areas in social work, in non-medical medical professions. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! A bundle of measures thus ensures that well-trained and self-confident young people will secure the future of Austria. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] High house! We learn it daily and we know what the older generation has done to build our social state. But we also need to ensure its quality, and that means modernisation. Important reforms have already been adopted to increase the actual retirement age, which have already led to a financial discharge of the pension system. However, we will continue to have to deal with the gradual harmonisation of pension systems. We will quickly and carefully analyse the medium and long-term development of pension systems. We will also prepare measures to ensure the existence of the pension system in the new millennium. It is important to convey confidence and stability to pensioners, but it is also important to offer concrete models to young people today who finance the system, and to give concrete models confidence in future age assurance. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In a responsible society, the institutions for modern medicine must be available to anyone they need, regardless of their financial capacity. The Europe-wide debate, which is currently being held on the financing of the health system, must not be exhausted in regret and complaint, but we must make a concrete policy to ensure the financial viability of this health system! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we must act. [[Abg. Scheibner: No one has prevented you from doing so!]] The reform of the health system will result in success if hospitals and treatment services are coordinated outside hospitals, but also the work of the established doctors. The cost disadvantages, which Austria has today alone in the case of healing and cures, must be reduced, and we must also achieve a modern and efficient organisation of health system carriers through increased use of the savings potential in the administration. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! A modern health policy, however, means more than just ensuring that the health of the sick is restored, and a modern health policy must preserve healthy health. A modern health policy must ensure the prevention and early detection of diseases as well as the elimination of sickening factors in our working and living world. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It will therefore not only have the meaning of bringing together the competence of decision-making and financial responsibility, but also that we have the opportunity to close and speed up the broad arch of occupational medicine through preventive medicine. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Austria is one of the safest countries in Europe. We have a falling crime rate – and yet there is a widespread feeling of uncertainty in the Austrian population, which is not in line with the empirical facts. It will therefore be among the main tasks of the new management to complete the integration package, to strengthen confidence in the executive's capacity, to continue the training, training and organisational reform of the executive and to find answers to new forms of crime, and to make it clear that the Federal Government's commitment to the use of modern technology for security is to be understood in such a way that this use can only be carried out without restrictions on citizens' rights and without violations of human dignity. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We need new markets and new products for an active employment policy. Therefore, innovation and technology policy is one of the priorities of future government work. The comparison with other industrialized countries' research quotas shows, on the one hand, that Austria still has to open up in this field. It also shows, on the other hand, that we have an atypical distribution of the research rate, that, compared with other countries, the share of the public sector in Austria is disproportionately high compared to the research expenditure of the private industry. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In total, Austria is a technology-set importer. I believe that if we miss the connection in this increasingly technologicalized world, we will also lose jobs and will not be able to benefit from many new opportunities. Therefore, in order to counter this, the Austrian Federal Government has undertaken to activate the research and development activities. Research institutions will need to be streamlined, simplified and coordinated in a joint project. However, it will also make it possible to make easier use of small and medium-sized enterprises. Austria has many strengths in technology transfer. We cannot be at the forefront of basic research in all areas of the world. We will have to connect to international programmes. But we must strengthen the ability to implement basic research quickly, flexiblely and efficiently, to develop new products and to develop new markets. Ladies and gentlemen! We will therefore pay particular attention to economic research in addition to the additional three technology billions from the privatisation proceeds. It is important to build a bridge between this basic research and the application in companies, a bridge that leads to close cooperation and expansion of research activities between the university and the economy. Cooperative research institutes, the integration of non-university research institutes, technology parks and information highways will secure our future. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! An important way in this new millennium is the way of Austria into the information society. The aim is to use modern information and communication technologies as widely as possible in most areas of life, and I ask: Let's start by allowing new ones! We must not prevent anything from happening out of fear that there or there might be false things. We must allow developments, we must promote pilot projects, we must learn new technologies! But that also means: dare! The information society in particular offers a great opportunity to a country like Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! The comparison with the research quotas in this field and other foreign examples shows us how to create new markets and new jobs. Let us therefore try to quickly promote, develop and experience these diverse areas of application through concrete pilot projects. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] However, we will have to be very careful to ensure that these developments do not produce new groups of losers in our society. We will have to ensure that all the population groups can benefit from the benefits of this information society. We will have to ensure that, for example, the benefits of telemedicine, teleworking or teleworking, to name just a few examples, do not create new class differences. The typical internet user in the U.S. is 29 years old, male, white and comes from the elevated education class. We do not want to separate society from those who can use these new information technologies and those who cannot use them. We therefore need measures and systems for the broad application of these new technologies, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] The Federal Government will take very seriously the protection of the individual sphere, the protection of confidentiality, the protection of consumers, the protection of workers, and we will have to follow and consider pilot projects very closely in order to develop rules that ensure the necessary protection measures. Let us go this way into the information society quickly and together! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is not possible to suppress and deny government, but also political insanity. The relationship to administration is often experienced in the role of a bitter and not in the role of the citizen and taxpayer to whom a service is offered. It is also often felt that budget resources are not used efficiently enough and are also spent for wrong purposes. We have therefore undertaken to examine very carefully whether and where money may be spent unnecessaryly. We have to examine very carefully which tasks the State will continue to perform in the future and which services can be provided by a functioning market. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Now don't even clap the socialists with you again!]] But at the same time, I warn of dogmatic action and of scams. A blind "nothing can change" is just as wrong as a stereotype "market, market and again market". [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We have to analyse this very carefully without these dogmatic scams. The State should carry out its tasks where the market fails where the market is not capable of doing something. And the State is to carry out its tasks in the sense of a service offering that is geared towards the needs of citizens. It is important to ensure that, on the one hand, the change in life forms and, on the other hand, the increased prosperity has made these needs more differentiated in recent years. It is therefore necessary to increase not only the awareness of costs but also the quality of public service. We need – and we will tackle this – the conversion of the sovereign state into a service state. For this reason, I have suggested a shift of competence in matters of administrative management/public service to the Ministry of Finance, where a State Secretary will address these issues of intelligent change. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! There are, of course, areas where the role of the State cannot be limited to efficiency. The state also has a social-political mission to fulfil – and one of the most important of these areas is the field of art. There is public interest in art. The public hand has the obligation to provide the material basis for an exciting, controversial and also uncomfortable art creation in Austria. I recognize the need for art to be able to take place on purpose – and not to serve as a mere means for the purpose. We need balances, areas where imagination, creativity and creativity can also be self-evident, but also means of communication with others in these times when our lives are so much dominated by economy. It is undisputed that reforms are necessary, for example in the area of the Bundestheater, the film industry, but also in the field of new media. Because this area is so important and because it is so important to bring together in the field of art the possibilities of the new media that are related to the Federal Chancellery, I have decided to take the art into the Federal Chancellery and thus this new opportunity to allow art in the information society as well. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to make a few comments on Austria's role in the European Union. The European Union is the most successful project to ensure the economic and political stability of Europe. It is not yet perfect, but it is a future-oriented project to maintain peace on the basis of democratic values, human rights and social balance. One should keep in mind this dimension and this perspective in the assessment of the European Union and not just measure with the measure of money, promoters and material benefits. Europe's policy is now felt in all areas of policy and life. The bow extends from issues of the working world to the environment, infrastructure to the common foreign and security policy. As an EU member, Austria can make full use of these developments and decisions that lie ahead of us. Ladies and gentlemen! The conclusion of the Intergovernmental Conference at the European Council in Amsterdam in June will be another essential step towards integration. For Austria, issues such as a stronger anchoring of employment policy are a further step in the joint fight against unemployment. Our efforts at national level must also be complemented at European level. Other priorities for Austria include, for example, social policy, human rights, environmental protection and animal welfare. We must also make the decision-making mechanisms of the European Union more efficient and strengthen democratic structures. In any case, the Federal Government will be able to maintain the strong position of the small Member States, such as Austria, as I hope, in the future. Similarly, the common foreign and security policy must be made more effective with a view to new areas of threat. We will also strongly support efficient European structures to combat international crime effectively. The Austrian Presidency of the European Union in the second half of 1998 will benefit us to move forward with key issues of employment policy, the reform of the Community budget and the preparation of Easter enlargement. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me also to say a few words about the important political project of the third stage of economic and monetary union, the common European currency. ==References== In January 1999, this step is intended for the completion of the common European market and is on schedule. Austria can meet all the stability criteria due to its successful method of fiscal consolidation, and Austria will be with the first group of countries to participate in this common European monetary zone. This is not about sporty ambition, but about securing the economic location of Austria in international competition, thus also creating a major – and the greatest – contribution to ensuring jobs, while ensuring the stability of the currency not only through the stability criteria that ensure convergence criteria but also through the Pact for growth and stability. [[Congratulation with SPÖ and ÖVP]] The euro will be a strong currency for an economic area of 370 million people. But we will have to deal with the concerns and problems of individual sectors and also with the concerns of the Austrian population. Anxiety about money loss and inflation, which are unfounded, can not only be countered by information campaigns, but we will have to work out very concrete measures to give the Austrian population the certainty that the common European currency is good for Austria and good for Europe. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I have already mentioned that Austria is actively involved in all the policies of the European Union, particularly in the field of foreign policy. Therefore, our membership of third countries in other world regions and our cooperation in international organisations is of course also a factor. But Austria also shows a very independent, independent foreign policy profile. Bilateral relations with the neighbouring and eastern European reform states are and are being further developed. We do not want to forget those regions of the earth that are outside Europe, which are not yet the target of the major economic flows. In this context, Austria, together with international partner organisations, is committed to development, development cooperation – with a view to ensuring global future opportunities, combating poverty in these regions and reducing the impact of crises and emergencies. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The security landscape in Europe has changed considerably in a dynamic process of change. In today's world, security can be seen as a holistic concept. We are therefore committed to a comprehensive security policy which gives the same importance to the issues of economic, environmental and social security as to internal and external security. However, the new challenges corresponding to a comprehensive security understanding can only be solved through solidarity, European and international cooperation, with no one wanting the emergence of new dividing lines in Europe. Austria will therefore work towards a constructive pan-European security dialogue. The question is solidarity, and this has already proved Austria very active in the past. [[Congratulation with SPÖ and ÖVP]] I only recall all those Austrians who made an important contribution on behalf of the peace service every day and within the framework of international organisations in Bosnia, Cyprus, Cambodia, Angola, Golan and elsewhere in the world. Thank you all! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Austria will actively participate in the design and development of the common foreign and security policy of the European Union and in the construction of a European security structure. On the other hand, no one will dispute that this objective has not yet been achieved, that important developments are still ahead of us. It would therefore be unwise for this state of development to give up the scope for security policy on such an important issue and to set itself on a single institutional option. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Let me conclude by stressing the following: Austrian foreign and security policy has traditionally been borne by an Austrian consensus, and we will continue this line in this sense. Ladies and gentlemen! We see our country facing major challenges. Great challenges also require major changes, and big changes offer us a great opportunity. We will successfully meet these challenges if we set ourselves clear objectives if we have clear ideas about how to achieve these goals, because the Austrians have the ability and the strength to not suffer these changes but to actively shape them. The prerequisites for success are: teamwork in the government, dialogue between the government and Parliament, cooperation with the social partners and an open relationship between the institutions and the people. Ladies and gentlemen! We will take up the challenges of the new millennium. We will make our decisions consistently and quickly, and we will work – looking at the people – committed to reforms. Take advantage of this opportunity! Take advantage of the opportunity for change together! – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e3307	High house! I thank Mr. Federal Chancellor Mag. Climate for his explanation in front of the House, which is at the same time the 1. The agenda for today's sitting is on the agenda. ==References== The item on our agenda is the report of the Constitutional Committee in 579 of the Supplements. Both agenda items will be negotiated under one, as decided. A request for oral reporting on item 2 of the agenda is not available; it is therefore absent within the meaning of the Rules of Procedure. We are now going into the debate. The speaking times are known. Mr Dr. Haider spoke with a speaking time of 20 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e3342	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Federal Chancellor! It has been entrusted to you from the Constitution to rule Austria. They have taken on a high responsibility – in a situation where we in Austria have experienced rising unemployment, a declining supply of jobs and an unprecedented pleite wave in small and medium-sized enterprises, in which a rather respectable but also shocking sale of our economy to foreign countries takes place. In this situation your predecessor has resigned, has resigned. And there have been many locust berries with which you have already been warned before you have started to work politically as chancellors, because you have hoped that the big coalitionary drag-off of decisions will now belong to the past. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: I don't think after today!]] You made a government statement today. You could say, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, You have given a good speech, something simple – not to say: simple – few visions, but a lot of phrases – words that we already know about your predecessor. We would have expected you to say something more concrete that you are not trying to send us priestly here, but are beginning to reform this country. That would be the task of a new Federal Chancellor! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It has happened to me so much – do not be angry with me – as if it had been a kind of life confession of the Viktor climate in which he said: [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler]] It's terrible with jobs, and we don't have a patent recipe. It's poverty rising, and we don't actually have a recipe. We must become much more mobile because we must no longer stick to our jobs for a lifetime. The curriculum is overcrowded, the universities no longer function. Now I'm asking You really are: Who's been ruling for 27 years? Who, ladies and gentlemen, is ruling other than the Social Democracy, which has caused these maltreatments and states? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] And here you come and say, We have also made a budgetary contribution to improving the employment situation. – Mr Bundeskanzler! The latest OECD forecasts show you that you will again have a rise in government debt in the next and next year – rather than 71 percent as this year 74 percent in 1998. This explains why we have such low investment performance: Because the state uses too much money to borrow loans, the private sector remains too little air, too little room for manoeuvre, and the equipment investment for the domestic economy therefore accounts for only one third of what it would have to do with the economic situation that is now drawing on. – We would like to hear answers from you! How are you going to create more jobs with this budgetary policy? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This will, of course, not prevent the left half of the empire and the Pratorians of the writing Guards of links from spreading roses to you in the next few weeks. For a week now we have experienced the various "high offices" of ORF reports, ladies and gentlemen, in the light of which it must be said that it is respectful if a minister responsible for it has to go to the Constitutional Court because he has brought an unconstitutional tax on them, is now being pushed with the laurel of the Chancellor's office, while the Constitutional Court condemns him for having committed a breach of the constitution in the tax legislation. [[Abg. Koppler: Let yourself come up with something different!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Not long, I believe!]] This man is praised, he is cheered up – and the ÖVP still applauds it, instead of being embarrassingly touched by what happened here with the medium-sized economy! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The next pleas will come, Mr Puttinger! You will have to consider your applause if the Constitutional Court lifts up the government's actions – for example, in works contracts, in family taxation! What is the point of a government policy that is praised when it says: The climate is such a burger as it does! – and at the same time the Constitutional Court repeals one law after another because of constitutional illegality! Ladies and gentlemen! This is not a government policy, but it is an unsolid plundering of the Austrians to achieve a budget balance in the short term, but no responsible provision for the future, as the Austrians would expect! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Enjoy the moment of the new Chancellorship, Mr Mag. Climate! Enjoy That's what you're They will soon be caught up with reality, because the attempt to act here, as if everything were new now, simply cannot work! You're not a new man, you were the second most important man in the last phase of the government of Vranitzky. Without you as Minister of Finance, there could not have been a gift of money abroad! Without you as Minister of Finance, there could have been no subsidies to the lockers in Austria! Without you as Minister of Finance, no job destruction through the savings package! Without you as Minister of Finance, there is no subsidy for Austrian people in the field of culture! Without you as Minister of Finance, there is no shattering for the weak and the poor in this Republic by your burden policy! Without you as Minister of Finance, no pension reduction after decades of provision for the older generation in this country! Ladies and gentlemen! You don't have to count this as a great success, because when new beginnings are announced, I don't expect the continuation of old politics with new words, but with a new concept: More market economy, more attention to small and medium-sized enterprises, less tax burden on those who are industrious in this Republic! – I didn’t hear all this from you today! It's gone away from us all the time! Where's the line going? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The only thing that fills me with hope in this statement of government is the formulation that Mag. Climate has installed a State Secretary in the Ministry of Finance, which will enable "intelligent change" after apparently, as long as climate has been active in this institution, an unintelligent state! [[Interlocutory calls by Mr Marizzi and Mr Dietachmayr]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But on the one hand, to say that new technologies must be invented, new technologies must be advanced through pilot projects, and at the same time to prohibit the liberal, as a project to send Parliament meetings over the Internet, that shows how far you are from reality when someone really wants to be technologically progressive! [[Intrusions of the Abg. Copper]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In 1986 it was – I believe – still about competition between the two government parties, about which one of them has the nose! 1997, ten years later, it looks quite different: Now there are three equal parties, the political landscape has changed fundamentally, and the liberals have also become the party of working people, according to the opinion researchers. All those who have to work hard – tradesmen, farmers, workers, employees – have all migrated from red and black in recent years and are now in our electorate. I therefore believe that the change at the head of the government did not have to do with the question of government policy so much, but rather that it should be a sort of rescue action for the SPÖ, for Vrannitzky left a mess to his party, above all, politically. Therefore, even in the last few days, it has never been about what new ways the government will take, but the commentators in the newspapers – the left Pratorians in the writing sense – have had nothing else to do but think about it: How's the climate going? [[Abg. Grabner: Good!]] Is he a Jörg climate – or is he a red shark? [[Abg. Seidinger: An insult!]] Will he stop the haider? [[Abg. Grabner: Yes!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Federal Chancellor! I'm just telling you one thing: Look for your own profile, don't try to copy us, because the original is still better than the copy! Therefore, you should abandon the attempts to make us competitive here! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the liberals.]] It would be much more important to know: Where's the trip going? Where does the trip go with Viktor Klima and his government? [[Abg. Grabner: Without Haider!]] Ladies and gentlemen! For the first time, the "Börsenkurier" writes, climate leads the citizens to poverty! – This is the comment of an Austrian economic newspaper: Climate leads Austria to poverty. [[Vice chancellor Dr. Schüssel: You always have to see that relatively!]] I'll tell you: You, ladies and gentlemen, as far as the sale, unemployment and the development of poverty are concerned, Austrian social democracy has been severely damaged. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That's why he spoke so sad!]] This speech, we want to make a new employment policy now, and we also need to rethink the foreign question. Ladies and gentlemen! Just at the time when the Federal Chancellor formulates a great cultural commitment here in front of Parliament, we read in the newspaper that for example the Youth Orchestra of the Vienna Chamber Opera is dissolved for lack of money and now artists come from Bratislava to appear with us. – If this is your policy, then good night, dear "culture promoter" climate, for your new activity in this resort! In any case, it will be necessary not only to say: My name is like the great Victor Adler, and my parents called me Viktor after him! [[Abg. Dietachmayr: Don't play by name, otherwise something will come to my mind!]] You must not forget that Victor Adler was a millionaire who has used his millions to help the workers – while today it is reversed to you: The comrades benefit from millions of their political activities. That's the huge difference! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Prolonged calls of the Abg. Dietachmayr.]] It's not enough to say I'm Viktor, and I have a historical model with that. – Ladies and gentlemen! Victor Adler has fought to strengthen the rights of the working people. On the other hand, they disassemble the working people today! They create poverty in this country and say: Unfortunately, we do not have a patent recipe, you must just become more mobile, if it is worst to emigrate! That's where we'll take a proper line through the bill! It can't be like that! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] What do you stand for, Mr. Federal Chancellor? This has not been made clear to us from your very ardent government statement that you have made today. Do you have any convictions – or just interests that you want to represent within a coalition? On the one hand, your party says: Without employment union, there is no monetary union! On the other hand, they say: Without If and But into the euro, this is the greatest project in the united Europe! In 1994 you said: I'm proud of the hard schilling! - Now you want to get rid of him! What do you stand for? Her party says that the solidarity levy should be introduced. Mr Häupl asked us to decide with you a solidarity in Parliament. You, as Minister of Finance, say no, you do not want that, although you have previously represented it as a politician. What do you stand for in the savings package? – The Austrians, including small and medium-sized earners, have to take heavy loads! But they help themselves – without picking up the eyelashes – that money is being donated to foreign countries. What do you stand for? As Minister of Transport, they announce 30 000 new jobs in the field of telecoms. . Now, in the Government Declaration, you say only a little thermal insulation would be the public hand's contribution to employment policy. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] They said in the course of the Semperit crisis: We will immediately decide on a task force, a conference of the most important professionals who will save this company! The task force was not born, but is already asleep gently – and 1000 jobs are gone at Semperit. You say in your statement for the "Action SOS Mitmansch": Austria is an immigration country, the boat is not full! – Your new Minister of the Interior says: In fact, we should think more about FPÖ and perhaps make a more restrictive policy. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Bravo! Best man in the government!]] He runs "hazard" after Lösnak to become our best man in this new government, because he says exactly the opposite of what Mr. Klima represents. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This indecisiveness, this ambivalence of the Viktor climate, it is which ultimately makes the challenge of the liberals successful, ladies and gentlemen! Because we've been positioning ourselves. They say: Austria is an immigration country! – We say: Austria is not an immigration country! [[Abg. May. Posch: You are a despicable enemy!]] We want a temporary immigration stop to reduce unemployment in this country before further immigration, including family retirement, is made possible. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They say: Enter into the EU without If and But! – We say: Makes the homework and first protects small and medium-sized enterprises through better competitive conditions! You say today in your government statement: The Austrian SMEs have a lack of equity, so we will give you new subsidies! – We say: Substances are nonsense! Give you better tax laws according to which the unabsorbed profit is boned! Then I have the best investment incentive, then I don't need any state instruments. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They say: Introduction of the euro without If and But and without referendum! – We say: If the schilling is abandoned, then the people should be asked before! You say – even today in your article: The Easter enlargement is important! [[Abg. Koppler: Nutbaumer!]] – We say: Easter enlargement is not responsible because six to eight million people will travel to Western Europe and find jobs there. Do you want to intensify unemployment in this country by such a policy, Mr Bundeskanzler? – We want answers from you. They say: The burden policy for the population is reasonable! We say: First, destroy the privileges in this state, in all these protected ruins of red and black! Then you can discuss how burdens must be provided for the population. All these differences are the reason why we have been successfully challenged by the liberals. Between your words and deeds, worlds really clap! Mr. Federal Chancellor, you see it yourself: While you are for an east opening, we experience in these days how bad it is if an east opening is not prepared. Kästle relocates production to Slovenia. No word from your mouth to this debacle! The Federal Government agrees to the integration of Slovenia into the EU without if and but. First reaction: In Klagenfurt, Philips' household equipment plant closes and transports the machines to Slovenia! Hundreds of jobs have been eliminated. I'd like to have a little discussion with you. You don't have any opinion on this. Or: Subsidies to lockers. The company Leykam has received over 100 million schilling from the City of Styria. The company Leykam has received 300 million schilling from the federal government, plus a waste water promotion of 200 million schilling, and now it locks up. 500 jobs away! No one's talking about it! Finally, by means of a reasonable tax policy, promote the medium-sized economy, which the jobs here consider natural, hard work and is far too heavy to make further forward-looking investments. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] What is this policy, Mr Bundeskanzler, for which you were co-responsible as Minister of Finance? Lenzing is promoted because Bank Austria is the owner. In Burgenland, 120 new jobs are created, for which we lock up in Upper Austria – 500 jobs less! That subsidizes you! It's the same at the post office. They told me in a TV discussion: Mr Haider, the natural exit at the post office will solve the problems. Now say In turn: Due to the fluctuations it is necessary to decompose. In reality, you will have to cut down 8,000 people by 1998 – and that in a place where you have been responsible as a alleged job protector. As a supposed friend of the Postlers, 8 000 jobs are lost to you, leaving this post as a political and economic ruin and not as a powerful company that can develop on the market. You're not able to do that! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] No word on how you want to improve the situation of women in the labour market. To date, the government has not been able to get through with at least one measure, namely the ban on night work for women. Siemens Villach: Over 100 jobs are puddle because women are not allowed to work. – Do you believe that this is the policy that people expect from you? Tollpickerl keyword: This is commissioned abroad, instead of depositioning this order from good Austrian companies and thus securing corresponding jobs. But these are the things people expect from you. You have said that thermal insulation measures would help to improve the employment situation. 8.6 billion schilling have They provide the countries with a means of building housing to stop the budget holes, rather than investing this money in housing and thus maintaining 12 000 jobs in the construction industry. Nothing goes further with you – and that is very much different from you! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I'll tell you: You are also a little bit in Bredouille, because you have realized that our political positioning is the right offer for those diligent and discreet Austrians who used to choose you. Therefore, this is not a question of whether you are voluntarily changing the exclusion policy to Vrannitzky, but you must do it because you need to take over more and more positions from the liberals. You have to do it because you have seen that in foreign policy, on the issue of small man's policy, on employment security, the liberals are simply right. What do you think you're a woman? On the one hand, there should be flexible working hours in the trade, but on the other hand, the kindergartens lock up at 4 p.m. – and you don't have anyone for your children. – This is your policy, Federal Chancellor! They say: No more overtime for employees! But the officials also receive the lunch break as a working time. – Your policy, Mr. Federal Chancellor! The Austrians in the private sector are going to stamp, but cheap foreigners are coming in to Austria to replace the Austrians. – You can read this at the labour market administration. They reduce pocket money for the disabled, but increase political relations by millions. They order us today to have economic mobility, Mr. Federal Chancellor, while the number of pragmatized officials has never been as high as under your government responsibility. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They send older workers who do not receive work into the emergency situation, but in the field of state banks there are for 35-year-old administrative pensions, of which others can only dream. You will have to get used to making the decisions: Do you want to further protect the exposed sector in Austria and thus break down the private sector, or do you want to create equal opportunities in this country: for the skilled, for the hard-working people who are hurting by the competitive wind around the ears, who are at risk and who are doing an excellent job in small and medium-sized enterprises? So I'm telling you, first of all, it's about site security, that is, optimism in...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e3698	Please ask for the final sentence, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e3713	... to bring the economy. Secondly, we are talking about social democracy for those people who have suffered from the savings and burden package. Your Minister of Finance Edlinger...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e3734	Deputies! The Rules of Procedure shall apply to all.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e3750	... has said: The consolidation course of this federal government is simply wrong. Finally, take action after that, change your strategy, create more jobs and more economic efficiency!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e3780	The next item is the speech by Mr Kostelka. - Please. Same time of speech.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e3801	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Dr. Haider! [[Call the liberals: The defender of duty!]] You have just provided evidence that you are indeed the evil little spirit of this republic, who always refuses. [[Prolonged calls for interlocutors in the liberals and counter-calls at the SPÖ.]] What you have just offered is an immense mixture of falsehoods and misinterpretations. But I understand you're getting nervous. Recent polls show: They're running the voters, and I understand that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: In what carnival newspaper have you read this?]] You are neither willful nor capable of actually assessing ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party, the situation of Austria and your roommates. For the accusation of "indecisiveness": Viktor Klima has made a budget possible, as was possible in no other European state: without social outrages, without strikes, but with savings measures. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Whatever you said was hot air! You have not made any specific proposals at all. Ladies and gentlemen! This budget, which we decided last year, was a budgetary point landing. The forecast was a re-indebtedness of 89.9 billion schilling. – In fact, it was 89.4 billion schilling. We are proud of a Finance Minister and now Federal Chancellor who has made this possible! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Little mind, who always refuses: The Kiel Institute for World Economy, an internationally highly respected institute, has predicted an economic growth of 1.5 for 1996 and a 2.5 percent for 1997. Is that the valley ride you've been talking about? – It’s ridiculous if you just want to deny the facts, the success course. But I am also proud of the tax reform and the measures relating to the budget as a social democrat! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Look The first results are: The estimated income tax has increased by 24 percent, the corporate tax by 50 percent, the wage tax by 7 percent. That is the social balance that we have spoken about before, and we have realized it too! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They are also talking about mass unemployment. Ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party! In December 1996, we had around 6 205 unemployed people less than in December of the previous year! That's the reality! Talk about what they really are – and not about how you want Austria! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] An unemployment rate of 10.9 percent in the European Union is compared with the unemployment rate in Austria at 4.1 percent. But that doesn't come by itself: We have saved, but at the same time implemented an investment programme – with 30 billion schilling in the construction sector and 60 billion schilling in the infrastructure sector, and we are in the process of continuing this path. The 1997 budget alone contains 7 billion schilling for active labour market policies. – This is saving and investing at the same time. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is a success report that can be seen, a success report of the year 1996, but also of the ten years before, in which 270 000 jobs were created. While you claim to have been sold out at this time, only the reserves of currency have increased by 100 percent and savings have increased by almost 150 percent. Ladies and gentlemen! The "little, diligent Austrian" you always talk about has actually done great things. The Federal Government has contributed its part to the possibility of these successes. At last take note of this and do not make Austria into an "Albania" in your wishes, which it is by no means! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] One last comment: The economic location seems to be very close to your heart. Please note, therefore, that unit labour costs – an essential factor for an economic location – are 9 per cent higher than those of the Federal Republic of Germany in 1986; today they are already 14 per cent higher. This is a competitive advantage that we will also use under the government climate, which will enable an initiative to continue this success course – with determination, with determination, with openness and competence. We are all proud to be able to carry this government! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In the next few months, we should prepare for what should actually be an argument – and not a show story à la Haider. We should tackle working time flexibility together, the radio-reform, the reference pyramid that we will decide in this House before the summer, the consultation mechanism that will enable the local authorities to deal with each other, but also the creation of new, modern and civil rights-related monitoring instruments. But above all, we will have to secure jobs in the next three years and create new jobs in accordance with the labour agreement. As in the past ten years, where 270 000 jobs could be created in addition, the opportunities for Austria in Europe, for the Austrian economy, but above all for Austrian workers will continue to be safeguarded in the next three years. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Social security will be enhanced, but above all it will be secure, and we also need a competitive economy. This has also been done with concrete proposals. Ladies and gentlemen! However, it is also an essential point for me to ensure freedom and tolerance in society. This too, as the past proves, will bring a controversial discussion with a side of the opposition. I do not claim that in the past few months, in the last few weeks, the coalition ship has been running completely freely in every single phase. But, ladies and gentlemen: In the course of the discussions on the sale of a CA stock package, we have finally made a reasonable, good decision, which respects that the best bidder is given as much financial resources as possible to the budget. In addition, we have decided on a package of reform measures from the reorganisation of savings banks to the stock exchange. Ladies and gentlemen! The result of this discussion is a new will of common interest, which will lead to the legislative period until 1999 despite the support of the liberals, and will continue to be a success balance in three years. We feel bound to this Convention of Labour and will implement its measures for Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Without If and But!]] Dr. Haider! You have assumed that your positions are better and more intensive. I'm just wondering, with which? – 1992 She said: We should write to the European Union a letter consisting of only five words: Austria wants to join the EU. – At the 1994 referendum on accession, you opposed to say in 1995 in an interview in the "Standard" that you were – right before the Chamber of Commerce campaign – for the immediate introduction of the euro. Today, in turn, you are against European monetary union. In 1993 you requested the redundancies for the social state with less holidays, less unemployment benefit and a higher retirement age. – Set up today She was the savior and truer of the interests of the Importers. That's unbelievable! That's ridiculous! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] 1992 You are against NATO – today, on the other hand, you are a glowing advocate of NATO. Ladies and gentlemen! In this context, it is probably best to address the programmes you have decided in the course of your party session: Lower taxes, create jobs – obviously a precursor to the programme: Delete social security amounts, secure pensions. What is contained in it is nothing but a tired recast of Reaganics, with which conservative American politicians failed ten years ago. For example, it is proposed that the tax rate should be reduced to 35 percent. This means a reduction in the government's revenue by 200 billion schilling. Do you know what social welfare costs in Austria? – 210 billion schilling. It can't be a coincidence. Social reduction would be the answer to your action. Every schilling you supposedly take in your "famose" program, you spend three additional times. Taxation should be aligned to the international level, but at the same time create You are calling for an ecologicalisation of the tax system, a new eco-tax in the courageous single entry of Austria against the rest of Europe. They're supposed to create new jobs there. - But where? There you want to promote part-time jobs there, award house economic activities and telework. These are low-paid areas that do not require skills that create a dependency, as it has not been known so far. That's not our way! Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! Dr. Haider is very happy to quote. I would like to quote him today from an article of the newspaper "Die Presse". His great reference to principle, Andreas Mölzer, writes there literally: [[Abg. Scheibner: Kostelka quotes mills!]] "Sachpolitan have nothing to offer to the liberals, the right-wing populism offers only sayings and resentments. It is no wonder that some blue representative of the temptation was unable to make any particular effort in the political field. Those who think of the collection of public places, which was offered as a key application at the last FP party under the title 'Save taxes – create jobs', know what the talk is about. ... At some point, everyone beats the hour of truth. It is expected that these will now be started slowly for Jörg Haider’s Freeman.” – I have little to add to this quote of an intimus. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Austria has been on a successful course since 1945, under the joint responsibility of SPÖ and ÖVP since 1986. With German Chancellor climate, we will continue this success course in the interests of Austria, in the interest of our country.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e3981	The next item is Mrs Dr Schmidt's speech. Speech time: 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e4002	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Above all: Federal Chancellor! I already agree that it is very difficult to think of too many locust berries and in this way the expectation is very high, but it would have been no different to my disappointment even in the case of less expectation, because of what you have best done in the Government Declaration. Mr. Federal Chancellor's Climate! You can't replace the contents with a pathetic speech. I am afraid that the character of the key word, but also the beauty that has been expressed in your statement of Government, is the line of which you promise more voters. Faith Are you really – I just mentioning those examples that you yourself have cited – that the funding of the hospitals is guaranteed? Faith Are you really sure that agriculture's incomes are guaranteed? Do you also see this empty formula of the preparation of the EU Presidency, which you alleged to have progressed in the Federal Government, as a success? Is this your latte where you will measure successes in the future? – After this reconstitution of the Federal Government, this does not really make any good expectations. One thing I consider to be of benefit to you: You have at least left a word out of a sentence that we have in the written execution of your statement of Government, which speaks of "evident contradictions", but now you have to admit that they are not "evident", but "real": that on the one hand, wealth, but on the other hand, poverty is growing, that we have rising employment, but also rising unemployment. – So at least this knowledge has once fixed you here in front of the House. They conclude that we need courage to change. – These are empty formulas, Federal Chancellor, if they don’t follow them. These are mysticals. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] They then say that it is not a targeting policy to remove obstacles and then leave people alone. – That’s what everyone says, we don’t need to hear from you, even if it’s nice that you recognize it. Only: If you don't say how you want to support people, what you want to do, that people aren't left alone, it's useless. They then want to become concrete and formulate two examples – that is, apparently concrete, that is the joke; if you leave it, but then you want to become concrete and cite two examples – and this formulation cannot be repeated often enough, namely: "No one can give the guarantee that a person's working life has the same job for a long time." – No, I can only say that you have come on it too! "The fundamental structural change leads to this" – and so on. "We must teach mobility." – Is it all right, but how is it, Federal Chancellor? The second example: "But we also need to make sure that the "Vorwagen-Könn" can accept new challenges, without fear, is possible. Without fear of losing existence in the event of a failure... This means that we must adapt our social system in such a way as to allow more mobility." – Again I must say, Federal Chancellor: No, we know that. We expected from you that You're showing the ways you're thinking of. You didn't do anything about it. However, I believe that a declaration of government should in any case be used to show the handwriting of a Federal Chancellor. [[Acclaim at the Liberal Forum and Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen.]] I already admit that a declaration of government, which is held during a legislative period, cannot contain everything – that is undisputed. But it's interesting where you put the focus. And to that I must say: So far, you have left your manuscript only in a few points; however, a manuscript, which – from the point of view of the Liberals at least – is a pitiful and unappreciable one. Its manuscript can be found primarily in the reorganisation of competences. And in this respect, you have just done something that I regard as a negative contribution to the spirit life of Austria: They have abolished the ministerial responsibility for culture. If you are now saying that this area has been declared the main issue, you are starting your job as Federal Chancellor with a label flaw. And this is not a good thing to expect for the future. I still recall very closely the discussion in connection with the upgrading of the Women's State Secretariat to a ministerial office. In this context, however, I must say something to you, Mr Bundeskanzler: It seems to you that there is no women's ministry in accordance with the Ministry's law, as you wanted to make us know in writing in the Government Declaration. It is true that there is a woman's minister, but the Ministry is your own, namely the Federal Chancellery. Maybe you should take a look at this. Regardless of that, the argument was then taken in the direction of wanting to upgrade the Secretariat of State, because a State Secretary in the Council of Ministers has no right of vote and because, above all, he has no ministerial responsibility with all the political consequences arising from it, and because, from this weakness point of view, the enforcement capacity – regardless of which person has this function – is predisposed. And it has been said that women's issues are an area that provokes disputes, namely a balance of interests which must take place not only between different sectors, but also in society. That means: The one who has to provoke something to carry on needs the power of a minister's office, he cannot do that out of the situation of an auxiliary body. Don't tell me now that the Federal Chancellor is always right to do so, because it was exactly him – but it was your predecessor, Dr. Vranckky – who at the time meant that this was not well lifted by the Federal Chancellor, but that he needs his own ministerial responsibility. Now I'm asking: How do you apply this argumentation to art and culture? – Does that not apply to what your predecessor said? – It is your right to say: Vrannitzky had a different position, he estimated it wrong!Use custom fonts; You also have a different position on other questions, for example as regards your openness to the FPÖ. So it's your right to leave your handwriting here, but then you also stand by it, and then you don't run a label slip by saying that it's chief thing and you'd be worried about it in particular. – We will At least you're watching very closely. That you come to the meetings of the Committee on Culture as a contact person, I assume, because how else should I understand your "chef" thing? But I am curious about whether you will also be a contact person for the cultural scene, for all those who are not only concerned but also see the problems that have the proposals for which a minister has to do so. We'll see if you take it yourself or if you delegate it to your State Secretary. It only raises the question: If you take over all this yourself, what do you have a State Secretary for? - I guess the cat's biting in the tail. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum as well as on MEPs of the Greens.]] I therefore believe that your position was a very clear signal that you are saying: Culture and art are not so important!, and above all: Let's get her out of provocation, let's get to consensus! – I admit that this may serve to maximize voters in your sense, but it will not serve the spirit life of Austria. By the way: What is also a matter of yours – I have to say that right now, that is also the main thing; however, it has neglected your predecessor as much as I fear that you will neglect it, I get this impression especially when I look at your government statement – media policy is. You are talking about the new media, but you are not saying a word about press concentration, as if there were no need for action in this area at all – perhaps there is no need for action. You're saying this because it's from your predecessor. You're not saying a word about the ORF, you're not saying a word to the radio, to television, so you have They do not seem to feel that it is necessary to reorganise something here. That's what irritates me when you explain something to the chief, that things, because you're obviously used up with other things, are going to fall behind. – It is not even included in your written concept, in which you set your priorities, how should it become a focus in practice? Other topic: Reorganisation of skills, women. . I already know how newspaper articles come about, and therefore I do not know whether it is true that the announcement that you would abolish the role of a woman minister has led to you finally receiving the approval of the new women's minister. But even if it wasn't like that: It is significant that you are entrusted with this. It is significant that, at any rate, you would have thought of abolishing the role of a Minister of Women. But that doesn't surprise me, because after the allocation of the contents, no orderly hand is recognizable which may have thought of something. No one will know that, but it's so symptomatic, so I have to give you a few examples. I am now making a comparison – Minister of Women on the one hand, Minister for Labour, Health and Social Affairs on the other. The Minister for Women is associated with the issue of protection against ionising radiation, but the Ministry of Health is the medical assessment of the application of ionizing and non-ionizing radiations. - That's one. The Minister of Women is responsible for the matters of poison transport, the Ministry of Health for the Affairs of Drugs. Interestingly, the Minister of Women is responsible for the affairs of the veterinarians, the Minister of Health for the Affairs of the Doctors. [[Interference of the Federal Chancellor Mag. Climate.]] – Of course there is a difference. I am only asking where there are synergies, and what aspects do you share? Apparently, the Minister of Women for Veterinary Medicines is good enough – don't ask me what's behind it – and the other has to go to the health resort, which is a stronger establishment. Feed hygiene is the case with the Minister for Women's Health, the Minister for Health. I am very curious whether you will probably have the opportunity to explain to us in the future – today we will probably not have the opportunity – the guideline that was the father of this thought, tell us what was behind it. – All of this fits into the picture! I'll see you now. All of this was a Ho-ruck action, and in this context perhaps it was not possible to arrange everything precisely, but you have set up a working group, and I hope that Mr Bundeskanzler – my colleagues will make a motion for a resolution – that you will at least take those objections into account in this reorganisation of the competences – at least, I say – which are going in the direction that the cultural area needs to be re-equipped with ministerial responsibility. [[Acclaim at the Liberal Forum and Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen.]] Another word on the Ministry of Health and Social Affairs. With all the appreciation of the person of the new Minister of Health – that is not just what I am saying, but that is what I mean – one has to say: It is significant that the Ministry of Economic Affairs, on the SPÖ side, has been put on top of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health on both key sectors – on the ÖVP side as well as on the SPÖ side. However, I believe that it should have been recognized that it has so far been those interests which have torpeded and prevented any reform move. That is, they have so far seen it as their task to preserve the existing, to defend the existing – it is not easy to wipe away with a stroke of hands, it is so. . We also experience this in this House in every speech made by the relevant Members. The fact that we are putting a person at the forefront of this area, even though reforms are being called into question in the economic sector on the one hand and in the social sector on the other, on the other, shows that we are taking a step backwards. I hope, Madam Minister, that you will be able to get rid of your previous duties, I just think that is a lot of demand. If you make it: Respect!, but you will have to admit to me that my hope for it - just from the experience that we had to gather so far - cannot be very great. - Everyone should have a chance. However, I think it would have been more useful not to make someone who is burdened with such a past – in order to express it this way – the decision-maker, but someone who can turn to reform without this ballast. But that, Mr. Federal Chancellor climate, is obviously the manuscript you wanted to leave behind. You have already left a manuscript: as Minister of Finance. Today, as has often been the case, you have thanked citizens for continuing to consolidate the budget. I do not dispute that they have gone a step further, the question is only, at whose cost and at what price you have done so. They have done so on the back of citizens, so it is also justified to thank them specifically for having carried it. Only: Seeing this doesn't make things better. But you have also managed to do so by loosely passing over constitutional principles. They are substantially responsible for the fact that this tax package contains a number of retroactive provisions which would be unconstitutional, if they were not equipped by you with a constitutional provision. That is, you just turned the Constitution in your direction, I would like to say now. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Kostelka.]] They say: We just have the two-thirds majority. That's right! You can completely change the Constitution. But if you make it as creeping as it is now, then this is political unreasonableness, because you know very well: When it comes to the principles of the Constitution, when it comes to a total revision of the Constitution, you have to ask the people! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] They do this in a discordant manner with a salami tactics and just say: We have the majority. But in this way, Mr Kostelka, you will not be able to strengthen credibility in politics and, above all, credibility in this Parliament. Therefore, I assume that this is only a lip confession – because it sounds good – because otherwise you would stick to it and would also have held to it by the then Minister of Finance and the current Chancellor. Federal Chancellor! If you already have this mortgage in your backpack, if you already have this constitutional knowledge, which is already quoted today and in which the corporate tax has been recognized as unconstitutional, in your backpack, then you should not continue now, which I take from your government statement. What do you say is that it is already decided and will therefore already be applied? – The so-called consultation mechanism. I know that many Austrians have very little to do with this concept, but we are here in Parliament, and, Federal Chancellor, I can point out to you that this requires a parliamentary decision and that it is therefore incredible if you speak of it in your government statement as if you already had it in your pocket. How far do you want to demolish this Parliament? [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on Green MEPs.]] That means that we need a constitutional law. And this two-thirds majority will need you; hopefully not again Members of you are sick, that you must be careful that you decide on the "right" day. This two-thirds majority will have to be 'argued', including with regard to the population, if you continue to cut down on this Parliament and narrow the rights of this Parliament with your two-thirds majority. If you pretend that all of this is already a matter of course, then this leads to an disturbed relationship with Parliament. We are used to this by your predecessor – that is true already – only had we hoped that a new opportunity will be opened up with you. In this hope, you have greatly disappointed us. You have also disappointed us in another point: Federal Chancellor! It is about constitutional rights, it is about civil rights, and it is about human rights: It is macular if you only write it on paper and do not send clear signals for your personal positions and thus specify a direction and show a manuscript. Today, after all the arguments are on the table – still today! . to talk so smoothly about being in favour of the new methods of investigation, but without restrictions on citizens' rights, is an empty formula! You could say that maybe half a year ago, you could say that a year ago – as it was already in the government statement – but today you can't say that anymore, because today all the arguments are on the table, today you have color to confess, today you have to position yourself and say whether you think those designs that are on the table are correct or not. – If you think it is right, then you buy that citizens’ rights are more than limited, then define them according to your usefulness. We're used to that too, just to say it so you know what you're doing with you. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] But in this statement of government you have not made any specific point where you could somehow be taken to speak. If you now say that the social system needs to be rebuilt, if you say that only those who need it should get something, then I must say: We have heard that in your statement as Minister of Finance. They have said that the reliability of transfers for families will be increased. What did you do? – You have cut the transfer services. How much is your word worth, Minister? – If I look at what you said as Minister of Finance and what you did, I have to say: It is, in fact, relatively no matter what is now contained in this declaration of government. But in one thing, I'll give you the following: The major challenges are indeed our social system and employment policy. That's exactly the point. I just don't see the counterpole like you do by They say: either leave everything in the old market or market, but I believe that the opposite poles are: to treat all people like weak or to help the right of the stronger to break through. – Both are evil. I do not want to live in any society in which the law of the stronger is the guiding principle, but I do not want to be eroded in such a way that everyone is treated the same way, but as weak, according to the principle of foundry. It is about allowing more market, but also about equalizing the conditions for both the suppliers and the demanders. Everyone should have the same opportunity to get access to the market; then he can only work, and only in this way will you prevent the right of the stronger one from asserting. – That means you have to start before. I therefore deeply regret that there is no idea in your statement of Government that it will be necessary in the future to decouple social security from income, because otherwise it will no longer be manageable and because we need a society in which social security is not a bromale, not a monastery soup, but a right. [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign]] I see that as a social and political responsibility. – You have remained guilty to us of the answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e4229	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Khol. – Ladies and gentlemen, I shall give you the floor and, in accordance with your request, set the clock at 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e4251	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The new Federal Chancellor, Mag. Viktor Klima, introduced us today to his new members of the government and presented us with his interpretation and development of the joint government agreement. We of the People's Party state: What we did a year ago, namely to exchange part of our government team, has now been done by the Social Democrats. On behalf of the Austrian People's Party and our representatives in the National Council and the Federal Council, I would like to welcome the new members of the Federal Government and to assure them of their trusting, positive and dynamic cooperation with the ÖVP Group. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Federal Chancellor! In your very long government statement – but we also have a long part of the government period ahead of us – you have set accents, outline future challenges that are quite clear of our approval. – Mr Bundeskanzler, you will always find us at your side in the implementation of the Government Agreement. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Federal Chancellor! They are the first man in this federal government to know whether the Chancellorship of Climate Change will become an intermediate play à la Sinowatz or an era such as from the time of Franz Vrannitzky. This will be up to you, Mr Bundeskanzler, in the way you organize this cooperation. And I have heard with attention that at the beginning of your statement you have put the words "cooperation for the entire legislative period" – and that in full knowledge of the fact that this cooperation has been shadowed in recent months, the shadow of a breach of trust. Federal Chancellor! We don't look back. We have a memory, but we don't look back. It is up to you that there are no longer such crises, that you do not overwhelm us, just as we do not want to overwhelm you, but that we are working together confidently. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations with the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is for me the third new beginning of the coalition. I hope that with this new beginning we will be better able to cut off in the public sector than in the past. Because we achieved a lot in ten years of great coalition with Franz Vranitzky. I would like to expressly acknowledge this today and thank Franz Vranitzky, who is probably watching us in front of the TV screen, if he does not specifically order his wine cellar, for the work he has done. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] A tax reform has been introduced in this large coalition, which our neighbor Germany has achieved with five years of delay and for a long time not so profoundly. So that means there's a big throw we've been able to do. We have achieved EU accession, ladies and gentlemen, something that would have been absolutely unlikely ten years ago, and I count it particularly high on Franz Vrannitzky that at that time, when it came to the decision, he really led his hesitant party and was able to win it for EU accession. We have managed to change the EU in the economy and in agriculture. We have overcome the era Kreisky, the debt policy and the national policy of the era Kreisky, and we thank Franz Vranitzky for overcoming the shadows of the era Kreisky with the renovation of the state budget. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Today we read the reports about the so-called predator gold in Switzerland, and we see with regret that many of us do not learn from history, but we have dealt with this difficult time – with Federal President Waldheim at the top and Franz Vranitzky. [[Objection to the Liberal Forum and the Greens.]] We will not forget who triggered this difficult time for us. But we will not forget that we have over this time come with grace and honor. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Nevertheless, ladies and gentlemen: Despite these achievements, the public reputation of the coalition can be greatly improved. Where there's a lot of light, there's also shade. And I believe, Federal Chancellor, that it is up to you that a new style of these shadows should be removed. Federal Chancellor! Make a determined pack out of your predecessor's sawing and hesitation, and you will have us at your side! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Federal Chancellor! If you inform us in advance, involve us in the decisions everywhere, where it provides for the Government Convention! Make confidence, and we will return this trust too! Information is a carry-and-hold debt. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Federal Chancellor! They come from management, and you know that in the course of management there is planning, organizing, but also controlling. The controlling in the Federal Government has not worked so far. We have set our goals again and again, but have not implemented them here. [[Abg. Wabl: Which one?]] Federal Chancellor! It is important that the Coalition Committee be set up to eliminate the small difficulties which some major reforms threaten to fail. – Decision is requested, Federal Chancellor! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner.]] Federal Chancellor! We need powerful and good partners in the Federal Government, and the approach you have shown to a more logical and objective cabinet structure through a rounding of the areas of competence is correct. I ask you to continue these efforts and that we can really present results in three months' time. We need a powerful Ministry of Education for our youth! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: It must be a black one!]] We need a completed, more competent Ministry of Economic Affairs for our economy, and we also need a Ministry of Infrastructure, so that the areas of road and rail work together and are not seen in competition. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: It's rounded up, not rounded!]] Federal Chancellor! Cabinet reform is a priority. Federal Chancellor! What you said today about the external security of Austria – if you can read between the lines, and we can do that – showed remarkable openness, especially that you are calculating the changing circumstances and that by your commitment to change you also know that decisions are due during this year and next year. Federal Chancellor! We are with you and with us in this reorganisation of our security. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Fischer.]] That is how I would like to give you, Mr Bundeskanzler, and the entire government team, at the end of the day, a shot of optimism along the way. We hear we live in a culture of regret, from which "cogito, ergo sum" became: I'm sluggish and sorry, and that's why I'm. [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You can only be sorry if you hear something like that!]] Austria is a powerful country, and we can find comfort with our people in the country to shape the future. And so I call you, Federal Chancellor, and your ministers: Happy Up and God's Blessing!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e4428	The next speaker was Mrs Petrovic. Please, ladies and gentlemen. Voluntary time limit: 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e4450	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mein Ladies and gentlemen, ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! – Mr Bundeskanzler, I would like to say that you have also appreciated your predecessor in a short passage of your statements. And in the point where you said that German Chancellor Dr. Vrannitzky was the first Austrian statesman to find clear and open words about the role of Austria in National Socialism, I give you the right. I do not want to go further on this matter, but I think that his merits can be estimated in a very different way here, and I think it is missing to mention Mr Klubobmann Dr. Khol, here the names Waldheim and Vranitzky in one. [[Congratulations on the Greens as well as on representatives of the Liberal Forum.]] That's all I want to say. Federal Chancellor! The Greens have never acquitted that in some key points – the recent Austrian past – Federal Chancellor Dr. Vranitzky has shown his attitude. Not only did we blame him, but what was also part of a growing media criticism and what is now being expressed in an increase in the use of direct-democratic elements in Austria – more popular desires are taking place – was his non-agencies, his non-decision on essential issues that are important to the population, which are of existential importance to large groups in the population. I very much hope that the whole Green Club very much hoped that you would give an answer to these questions to which Dr. Vrannitzky has remained to us – to the very end – today at least in basic terms. But this hope has disappointed you. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Call the ÖVP: Which questions?]] I am still referring to these questions. [[Abg. Dkfm. May. Mühlbachler: No words, please!]] I ask you to consider the expression "words", ladies and gentlemen, which you so strongly call in, after a careful study of the speech of the Federal Chancellor's climate. I want to confront you again with some passages from that. You, Federal Chancellor, said, in connection with Austrian European policy, with Austrian integration into the European Union, that a common EU foreign and security policy has not yet been achieved and that important developments are still ahead of us. – Mr Bundeskanzler! Very soon they're in front of us. In June, decisions are made in Amsterdam, and I wonder: How does an Austrian Chancellor deal with these crucial negotiations when the word "neutrality" does not even occur in his statements on the Austrian position on security? Has You have already given up this position, Mr Bundeskanzler, in advance? If that is the case, then social democracy has also given up this position with you, and then no one will become strong in the negotiations for the next stage of integration for this whole, very important and modern security policy line. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I can still recall this advertising material, these blue brochures you distributed before the vote, in which you promised to maintain Austrian neutrality. – In January 1997, it will no longer be found in the new Federal Chancellor's speech on security policy in front of Parliament. [[Abg. Arbitrators: That's what's in the law anyway!]] - It's in the law anyway. – Mr deputies, other things are also in the law! But they are very consciously mentioned here. The new Federal Chancellor himself spoke of priorities – the neutrality apparently does not belong to them. Real politics, however, looks different. Climate has said here – it is about the future Austrian attitude – that it is unwise to give up the scope for security policy on such an important issue and to set itself in advance on a single institutional option. – This is NATO, we all know that. What, then, is Austrian neutrality? This is no longer, Mr Arbitrator, what is contained in this Constitutional Act, but, as climate has formulated here today, a wise tactical room for negotiation: If you give us a little bit of it, let us perhaps give a little bit of our neutrality again! The Austrian neutrality is the disposition. – This is the clear text of this speech. Federal Chancellor! There has already been a successful popular desire in this context. Obviously, these concerns are not worth much to you. Ladies and gentlemen! Policy looks different in this area. There is a list of priorities for the defence resort, and Mr Fassleven, the Federal Minister, is very ashamed of a plan of renunciation. So that doesn't look like mentality. 8.5 billion schilling for tanks, 20 to 30 billion schilling for interceptors and a few billion for aircraft defense missiles, helicopters and so on – and that in times of savings packages! We have four political groups here in this House – so far there have been three political groups – who are very clearly in favour of strengthening this area. The Social Democrats under Franz Vrannitzky have still hesitated. With Viktor Klima, they seem to be taking this clear step of the other three parties: High-level upgrade. And I'm asking you today, Federal Chancellor: At whose cost can this only go again? The answer is clear: This is at the expense of the social budgets, because you do not have so many available masses in this budget, and you know that as well as I do. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The savings packages that carry your handwriting have already impacted, you can't wipe from the table. Mr Bundeskanzler, you said in your statement that Austria has carried out this saving course without endangering social peace. Yes, there were no mass strikes in Austria, no mass protests – but that's why, Federal Chancellor, because those who are already very poor are completely excluded, no longer have the power and no chance to defend themselves. It is now God already thank others, like the Caritas, like numerous social institutions that raise their voices at poverty conferences for these people. And that's not a few. Mr Bundeskanzler, I also need to make this clear – it also concerns some of my previous speakers – that: We have in Austria – I say: unfortunately, unfortunately, unfortunately! – no more increasing employment. The big break goes hand in hand with the introduction of the savings packages. This initially began to hesitate from 1994 to 1995, as we lost 2 500 jobs on average under quotation marks. The last year is not fully evaluated until December. But there will be an average of 20,000 jobs that we have lost in absolute numbers, and that has happened for the first time. You know what's behind that? – That many people, especially women, women with care responsibilities, do not go to the employment office at all because they are out of chance. They can't be organized either. They can't strike, they don't have weight anymore and no voice. I want to bring you such a case. A number of such single-sicks have been presented in one of the latest issues of Eva Rossman's "profile", such as the case of a mother with a minor daughter who would be willing to accept half-day work. The Employment Office says: That is not enough, someone who wants to work only half a day is not willing to work in this country! A woman with caregivers will receive unemployment benefit, emergency aid will be removed, and the directives that the so-called social administration, Mrs Hostasch, has now sent out in this country, speak a clear language. I read it to you literally: "Even claiming the need for permanent care of a disabled child and the treatment-related journeys are capable of "do not show" this causality, namely, that unemployment benefit is not to be removed. – That is, even parents, mothers who have disabled children to care for and are willing to work half-days, they say: That's not enough anymore! They are unemployed, they are removed from the statistics, they are nowhere more. This is the cold that some in the Socialist Party have also spoken about. On these individual cases, Mr Bundeskanzler – not with general formulas, but personally as a vector climate, but also as a chancellor – must express your opinion! There will also be a popular desire in spring, and then the chancellor Viktor Klima will ask the answer to the question: Do you bring what these women demand, namely social security, especially for women with caregivers, into Parliament as a government template and help us in Parliament by actively supporting the government that we can make such laws, or will you not do so? This is your decision, and you must tell the Austrian population! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] A climate of the cold has widened, and now many people have the hope that something will change. It has always been my accusation to social democracy that it is not enough bollwerk against progressive stigmatization of social weakness. This has begun with the question of the refugees and the willingness to take part in Austria. I can remember, Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, that we were standing together at the "light sea" at Stephansplatz, and I was really pleased that you were there. I now ask you for your honest opinion: How do you appreciate the development that has taken place since then? How do you appreciate the many cases of broken families, of displaced people, of refugees who had no chance of really articulate themselves? How do you appreciate these cases? Don't you see a need for action? But this spiral has not stopped, but it has moved on: from the refugees to the unemployed. Keywords: Eligibility, women, a more difficult reference to unemployment benefit. This spiral has moved on to the students, to the artists. They have also begun stigmatizing students. It means: Students live at our expense! They have therefore been removed from the free movement, the reduction of child support dramatically, and the introduction of taxes gradually. Is this the modern state of performance you want - or something very, very old-fashioned? Federal Chancellor! At this point I appeal to you as a former work student: Admit your line to this, and once again admit that you have made a mistake with the savings packages, which urgently need to be corrected! The universities need more space and more money. [[Congratulations on the Greens as well as on representatives of the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! My predecessor has already said a lot about the situation of art and cultural artists in Austria. I also think that it is cynical to say that the conversion of a ministry into a state-dependent secretariat is an upgrading. You really can't do that to anyone in Austria! It means that the art is to be taken to the short line. [[Abg. Parnigoni: This is very boldly formulated!]] [[Abg. Schieder: "Quick Leine" means closer to the Herrl!]] That's the clear text! You already want to keep a little bit of an influence. Also wanting to sell the summaries with the giant sports and internal EU affairs as an upgrade is a strong piece. As a result, my colleagues will present resolutions on both the Ministry of Art and the ever-increasing neutrality of Austria, including saving 8.5 billion schilling for the purchase of tanks. One last thing, Mr. Bundeskanzler – Monika Langthaler will thus still confront you in detail –: the environmental sector. You, Federal Chancellor, have mentioned a few aspects of the environment in some passages of your Government statement. However, I was very shocked that, with ease, you presented the disassembly of civil rights in the commercial procedure as a location security measure. Federal Chancellor! I have drawn your attention at the outset to the fact that the Austrian population has become very, very active, very active. Some examples: Neutrality-populations, animal protection-populations, women's-populations, gene-populations. The population can no longer be liked by the government! If you believe that you can make the "station Austria attractive" – under quotation marks – by cutting down the citizen's rights, I must tell you: That will be the bitter resistance of the population! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] They can only make environmental protection with and against the population. They can also use market-compliant methods, such as eco-tax. But it is painful that in the debate on eco-tax, you are now dealing with a model of the liberals, although you have long had the opportunity to talk about more serious models, such as those of the Greens, in detail and to comment on them. You seem to be drawing it in the internal debate where you find a rivet tree, and then you can say that the model is not serious. Federal Chancellor! In all these questions you are required as both chancellor and man Viktor Klima. I say the following to you: The way you started in front of the House today to remain guilty to the central points just as your predecessor Vranitzky will not tolerate and honor this house or the Austrian population in the long term.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e4588	The next Mr. Vice-Chancellor, Dr. Schüssel, spoke. - Please, Mr. Vice-Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e4610	Mr President. High house! First of all, a few words about the simultaneous end of the ten-year period of cooperation between Social Democrats and Christian Democrats, which began in 1987 and which brought something to this country under the leadership of Dr. Franz Vrannitzky and ÖVP Vice-Cancellors, which cannot be estimated to be high enough, a time period in which – from the collapse of Communism to the opening of the East to the EU rail – incredible changes. This cooperation between social democrats and Christian Democrats has brought stability to our country, and that is important. This is more important than some might estimate today. As in other countries, you can see at a glance around us: The Italian system has been completely changed, broken down, rebuilt, even in Belgium, in the Scandinavian countries, wherever. This cooperation has been good for the country. That's what I'm saying! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] It's not a rumour, it's not a beautiful color. I believe that the most important things, the basics, as is said in the economic language, are still the best arguments. In these ten years, where the Social Democrats and Christian Democrats have been involved, sometimes with difficulties, with tensions, but always in the interest of our country, there has been a doubling of the gross domestic product – which other country in the world has shown this? – there were more 300 000 jobs and jobs, and thus employment and prosperity opportunities for hundreds of thousands and their family members. This is far more important than the basic feeling that perhaps there and there could have been even better that this or that would have been made too hesitant or not too committed. It is important that this cooperation has done our country well and has actually changed our country positively. [[Congratulation with ÖVP and SPÖ]] We can see today that there is no more nationalized industry. This is a departure from previous ideologies – jointly carried out. This has been a good thing for businesses, workers and the capital market, and that is important. Today, the Germans are implementing the tax reforms we made in Europe, for example, years ago. This one feels everyone. It is also sustainable that some years now the belt needs to be tightened. It has already been done socially prudent, fair and balanced, and I believe that we have basically succeeded. It is therefore possible to say: Overall, the balance sheet – with positives and negatives – is positive. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Social policy milestones have been set in these ten years – and this has so far fallen in the debates. Who is still talking about the families today every year – every year! – 16 billion Schillings are also available: thanks to the decisions of the National Council and the dedicated work of family ministers, mostly family ministers! Who is still talking about the fact that today's karenz opportunities in Austria are better developed than in any other country in the world? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Petrovic.]] That's a huge success! Who is still talking about having taken care of other countries today? It is expensive, but socially balanced, and its funding corresponds to our economy. It has therefore moved this cooperation of social democrats and Christian Democrats a lot, much secured, but also socially well-deserved to this country. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] We're starting a new start today. In fact, we are actually entering into a promise that we already made ten months ago, when we signed the coalition agreement together. It didn't work that well. We want – the SPÖ-designated party chairman and already appointed Federal Chancellor for SPÖ and I for the People's Party – to renew this cooperation, the style, and in this sense we also welcome the new colleagues in the Federal Government. We want to work in a partnership spirit for this country. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] It is clear to me that it cannot be the task of the opposition to scatter incense grains in addition today, that would not be necessary at all. The opposition parties should bring their critical view of things. [[Abg. Wabl: Thank you! Thank you very much!]] That's what I mean. This is my deep conviction as a long-standing parliamentarian. But it was also said: In this declaration of government, which lasted 70 minutes, there was a great deal of substance for change and for political action. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals and the Greens.]] I also say quite openly that we are taking this statement of Government. It has been jointly formulated and is also borne by us together. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: That explains a lot!]] In the discussions of the opposition leaders a lot of common things has been done: deep questions, yes, the most important question for all of us: How to make sure how to distribute work in the coming years and decades, at the beginning of the 21st century. - Century? Let's not make any illusions! The time when the wish was still helpful has long passed. Today, at a time of the global economy, when companies can move billions of dollars at the push of a button, investment decisions can be quickly deducted, for example, in which a work can be moved from Vorarlberg or from Carinthia or from anywhere to Slovenia or Asia, it is an illusion to believe that we are going through with the preservation of what is. We will simply have to think of it more than the recipes of the fifties, the 1960s or the 1970s. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] That is why this Declaration of Government contains some important guidelines for action. [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Why the excitement? I'm trying to get in touch with you. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] If we know that today, at good quality and much lower costs, work can be shifted, that in Asia or in Eastern Europe equally good things can be produced cheaper, then we have to reconsider the cost of work – but not the amount of wages, because that would be unsocial, and that is not wanted by anyone. Rather, we need to reconsider the costs of bureaucracy, and that means faster, more efficient plant law, means faster decisions in the offices, means a flexible use of work, which has become a very precious asset. I also share the view that this should not be done in favour of one side and at the expense of the other. That is why we want to invite the social partners to talk to them to hear their models of solving these problems. We must be honest: It will not be possible to provide a job at a lifetime, and it will also be necessary to increase part-time work. This is a trend that is not only there in Austria, but one that you already feel all over the world. We will also have to think about whether we should not go much more closely in the pension scheme on sliding models, which do not force the total departure from the work process to be made possible, but which will allow a transition from the working world to the pension world. So the work will certainly be a subject that will do us an infinite amount of work, but it does not make us afraid, because we are successful. I looked at how the challenge of globalisation is actually our main competitors compared to us. Despite globalisation, we have a trade surplus vis-à-vis Eastern Europe and now we have a balanced trade balance with the ASEAN countries for the first time, and we have achieved a balanced trade balance with Japan for the first time since 1945. Therefore: End of slugs, slugs of sleeves, work for the 21st century. It was the task of the new government in the 20th century! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] The second major issue we face – and some have taken a critical stand on this – is the question of solidarity or the de-olidarization of our society. I think there's a lot to it. We have a division today: Many believe that their own environment in Order is in the sense: I'm okay, it's not you! that your own family works, but all other families are in danger of slipping into poverty, that the school in which your own children are being taught is okay, but the school system in Austria is getting worse and worse overall, not being able to train the youth well, that the security in your own neighborhood, in the village, in the Grittel, in your own street is in order, but actually the advance of crime is not to stop. From this attitude: My personal environment is fine, but not everyone else, and the others are responsible for it! It is a very dangerous social tension, which can lead to a decline in the willingness to give solidarity. Mrs Petrovic! I am convinced that the State of Austria – State: Federal, Länder and Communities – doing a lot, more than most other countries in the world: social benefits to ensure protection from need, from financial risk or whatever. But what is needed is that the other areas, the family, the self-help and charitative organizations, be encouraged to participate, for otherwise the tendency to de-olidarization is increasing infinitely. Third point: Many today have talked about culture and have complained that this area of the former Ministry of Transport, Science and Arts should now be reorganised. – May I comment critically on this: This ministry was – openly stated – actually a somewhat strange creation from a year ago. [[Intercom calls at the Liberal Forum and the Greens.]] I know you criticized that at the time. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: Right!]] But many no longer remember that this is precisely what has been criticized. This area should therefore be reorganised. But I'm saying, Austria remains the world's cultural power – completely indifferent whether the art agendas are now located in the Federal Chancellery or in another resort. We can be proud that the best ambassadors of Austria are, for example, the Philharmonics or the thousands of other artists who offer their works, their products worldwide. This is the decisive – but not where the "competence castle" is now being relocated. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] What country of the world is there yet in which an economic or foreign minister or a German chancellor tries to align his timetable for his travel plans internationally according to the concert dates of the Philharmonics and derive from them common opportunities for art and economy? [[Abg. Dr. Fischer: And Moik!]] Where is there such a width that in every village house music, wind music and traditions, as well as the new ones are maintained? Therefore, I really ask: If so, then I demand as Peter Marboe – which we are proud of because he comes from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and today is the Council of Cultural Cities in Vienna –: Less politics in art and more culture and art into politics! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Therefore, every minister – that is, Viktor Klima and I – has to be in some way a small minister of culture and art; the Foreign Minister anyway, because he is responsible for foreign culture and is to be operated at every message of cultural communication and the Austrian image in this sense; the Minister of Education is also responsible for the training of young people, who should be not only intellectual but also musical, because this is ultimately for the whole personality and is indispensable; and also the Minister of Economic Affairs responsible for the maintenance of our cultural buildings. Every minister must therefore be Minister of Art, but under which place art is then in the official calendar, is – I mean at least – not so crucial. A few words on foreign policy: I feel very grateful and positive two sets of Viktor Klima on this: Foreign policy in a small country must be a common foreign policy. – And: We can only be audible if we speak with one voice. That is why we have defined three priorities – always in common. Firstly, European policy. Dear friends! We have to thank Franz Vrannitzky – and this is the only point in which I would like to correct the declaration of government – but we also have to thank Alois Mock, who has had the vision of leading Austria to the European Union. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] This European policy has always been and is always a deep Austrian task. In the past, Austria was a great power, as we know. Today we are a small, a medium-sized state, but therefore no less important. In this sense, the EU Presidency will again have a leadership role in this Europe for the first time since the Vienna Congress in 1815 in just over a year. It is therefore important that we actively participate in the Intergovernmental Conference and actively contribute to issues such as employment, higher environmental standards, animal welfare, human rights and the role of young people. We can say today with pride that many other central and small countries are already following us along this path. At the last European summit in Dublin, we have defined three very nice terms – in English they sound better – as a goal: "safe streets, secure jobs, sound money". – I see this as a very important issue for our European policy: Road safety: that is, fight at European level against organised crime, safe jobs: European responsibility, and a safe currency: if euro, then as safe and as hard as schilling. – This is our first priority. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The second priority is an active and friendly neighbourhood policy. There is no second country in the European Union, which has eight neighbouring countries as we do. Four of these neighbouring countries want to enter the European Union and a European security alliance. Three of these countries have minorities in Austria. It is therefore vital that Austria pursue an active and committed neighbourhood policy. That is why I also say a very clear yes to the integration of our neighbouring countries into the European Union. But this must be an extension that is responsible and a little more flexible and intelligent than a striking come-in of all. There will have to be longer transitional periods on the labour market, in agriculture and in other sensitive areas, but there should be no doubt about this yes, about Austria's willingness not to remain a peripheral state, but to move even more into the heart of Europe and bring others in. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The third focus of Austrian foreign policy is peace policy. That's the most important thing at all. Those who want to preserve prosperity must also be willing to give up a little of their wealth, so to share. If Viktor Klima today thanked the taxpayers for allowing us to distribute or consolidate the budget, I would also like to thank all those thousands and hundreds of thousands of Austrians who, for example, have spent billions of schilling on Caritas and other institutions for their prosperity. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I also say: Those who are rightly concerned about the rainforest, those who are rightly concerned about the extinction of species of animals, must also be concerned about whether, for example, the need in Palestine can be reduced, must be careful to ensure that human rights are protected in Bosnia, and that his voice must also be ambiguous and clear about the protection of minorities, of people in general, where they are threatened in the world. – This is Austrian peace policy! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Peace policy is always disarmament policy! It is nonsense when it is claimed that we are upgrading in Austria. On the contrary: The Austrian federal army has one of the smallest budgets in the world. But, Mrs Petrovic: A powerful, credible federal army, which can guarantee security even in the event of an emergency, should actually be outside the party-political dispute! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Disarmament is therefore needed – and we do this disarmament. [[Abg. Wabl: Where?]] The fact that two thirds of the nuclear warheads have already disappeared today that we are limiting conventional arms – the negotiations on it will begin in the next few days in Vienna – that all parties are fighting together for a ban on landmines, for an aggressment of chemical weapons, that Vienna is the "world capital" in the fight against the nuclear bomb and that from here the nuclear test stop is controlled is a huge success of our peace policy, our disarmament policy! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Whoever wants peace must also be willing to give security. In this sense I also underline the sentence that Viktor Klima said at the end of his speech: To give solidarity means: Give peace, offer security and act in solidarity. We do not want to participate in any instrument of the Cold War, that is clear. But a coalition, a European coalition for peace and disarmament is all, as I believe, an Austrian priority. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] In this sense, I would like to thank you for your attention and assure the listening Austrian people that we are serious about this commitment to cooperation. We want to demonstrate in the full length of the legislative period what joint work for Austria means in our sense: the joint work of the government parties, with the invitation of the three opposition parties, together with the social partners and in a dialogue with the Austrian people! [[Abg. Wabl: Just like in the past?]]
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e4875	I would like to thank Mr Vice-Chancellor for his statement. The next speaker is Mr Nürnberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e4899	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! Appreciate High House! Let me wish the new ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government much success in dealing with their forthcoming tasks! You'll certainly need it. If you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have declared in the first place that you are not presenting the entire government programme here, I understand it. However, I am very pleased that you have devoted the priorities of your statement of Government to employment, to unemployment, to poverty, to social security and to the very important questions of training, particularly vocational training. The most important thing will be to fight unemployment and poverty even more strongly than before. There should be as many people as possible with work they feed on as they can live, and as few as possible at the edge of the minimum of existence – that is, ladies and gentlemen, what we need in our country. I would like to draw up three points which you have dealt with in the Government Declaration, which are very closely related to the issues of employment and unemployment. They have dealt very thoroughly with the complex of working time and the issues of flexibility. Let me once again explain the position of the trade unions in our country: The trade unions are therefore committed to further flexibility of working time, because it is useful and necessary if we want to maintain the industrial location of Austria competitive in the future. We want to help businesses because we believe that flexibilization, if it is used properly, can secure jobs and even create new jobs. Ladies and gentlemen! But unlike some employers, who are only concerned with cost reduction on the backs of workers, about more "work on call" for less money, we want to make a real flexibilization. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What do we mean by "real flexibilization"? – We want to make it possible to use the plants better and increase productivity. Plants are available to produce around the clock, if possible, and to handle incoming orders as soon as possible. However, the crucial point in this debate is that we believe that workers must also benefit from flexible working hours and have benefits. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This can happen in a very diverse way. This can be a real reduction in working time, that can take place in the form of a lifetime, that can be a job guarantee, that can be educational leave, that can be longer leisure blocks. There are no limits to imagination. Federal Chancellor! I underline your sentence – I have written it literally; I can also take on this wording in the future –: The balance between workers' and employers' rights must be maintained, because only then will flexibility find the necessary acceptance. – I have always formulated it this way: Flexibility must not be a one-way road, there must also be counter-traffic traffic, but I can befriend your formulation. I would like to stress again clearly and clearly: A flexibilization at zero rate, coupled with disadvantages for thousands of workers in our country, will not exist with the Austrian trade unions and the Social Democratic Members in this House! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In this context, the question is as follows: How should we solve the flexibilization? Should we resolve them through the instruments of the collective agreement or through individual operating agreements? – I can only say: Both are necessary and meaningful. The collective agreement is intended to provide the framework. We do not have the intention – I stress this for the time being – to state to each operation exactly what he may do and what is useful. Instead, the collective agreement is intended to conclude a business agreement tailored to the individual business. Ladies and gentlemen! The collective agreement does not mean a premise of the individual worker, as one occasionally hears it, but the collective agreement has a very important protection function for hundreds of thousands of people who work in our country as employees. There must therefore be no flexibility without a collective agreement, because only the collective agreement is the guarantee that the balance you spoke of, Mr Chancellor, can be guaranteed in the future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In the last few days there have been discussions at the social partners level. I personally am very optimistic and confident that we will come to a solution acceptable to both sides. Let me make a few comments from my point of view on a second subject, which is very closely related to employment, to unemployment issues, namely vocational training, in particular education and training. I am very glad that you, Mr Bundeskanzler, have devoted very wide passages to your statement of Government on this subject. Many who cannot find a job today have the problem or the fate that they do not have the necessary skills required in the economy today. For the time being, I call for our full strength to be given to these people the necessary training, the skills that the economy needs. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We must also note that many young people are still being trained in false occupations today, in professions we know today that they will no longer have a future in economic life in two, three or four years. The economy itself says – and I stress that –: All in all, we will only be able to claim ourselves in the great global economic fabric of Europe if we have well-trained professionals. – The economy demands this, but it is not willing to rethink and create modern, forward-looking land professions with us – in an ideal combination of practical and theoretical training. Those young people who are willing to learn a teaching profession in our country must give us a new motivation, confidence and hope that, when they go into teaching, they will learn something with which they can simply put their husband or wife in the coming decades in professional life. In addition, good, solid training is also a guarantee that you are more mobile, and if you can bring mobility, it also protects against unemployment. In this context, there is also a very important question which you, Mr Bundeskanzler, have not raised. I'd like to remind them. Within the framework of all the complex issues of education and training, funding is very important. We should, as the whole economy needs professionals, not only take a few to bear the training financially, but we should come to a fair balance – whether in the course of a fund solution or otherwise. In any case, it is no matter what name this design will have, but it is important that the enterprises do not wait, as the financing will ultimately look like. For this reason, many do not currently train apprentices. There must be a proper financing system, with all those who are interested in good professionals who need to help you resolve the financial problem. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Leave As a trade unionist, you will address me briefly to a third subject, which is to a great extent a social policy issue for me. The 14 trade unions in the Austrian Trade Union Confederation and the ÖGB just months ago, as a result of the Fairneß action, handed over 300 000 signatures to the Federal Chancellor and thus to the entire Federal Government, calling for some 1.3 million workers to finally remove the differences in social law which still exist today, especially in the field of termination periods, in the case of sickness or in other cases of prevention. The Federal Chancellor, together with the former Minister for Social Affairs Franz Humszuge, assured us to take very quick initiatives to discuss this issue and to find a solution. We know that is a complex question, which cannot be resolved from today to tomorrow for financial reasons. But, as with many other questions, we have prepared a stage plan which has already been successfully implemented by many individual trade unions. We should finally start, ladies and gentlemen, taking this path! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I am therefore of firm conviction and would like to express my hope that you, Federal Chancellor Magistrate. Climate, and our new Minister, Mr Hostasch, will take this objective along with and take steps to ensure that this major social policy issue, which is an injustice to 1.3 million workers, is brought to a solution. In addition, I wish the entire Federal Government to be successful in solving the problems of the future in the interests of the people of our country through teamwork.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e5057	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Stadler. – Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor. They want a 10 minute volunteer time limit. So I'll set the clock after that.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e5079	Mr President. High house! Both the Federal Chancellor and the Vice Chancellor considered it necessary today to celebrate "Ten years of great coalition" or, as this coalition is no longer so large, thus a coalition of losers, i.e. "Ten years of loser coalition" in front of this house. The Austrian People's Party has been the only party to this end. The Social Democrats were at least so honest to say that it was enough for them to shrink from 43.12 percent to 30 percent. The ÖVP is still celebrating, although it is on the best way to occupy three political places in Austria. We will do everything, ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party, to help you! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But one thing should not be overlooked in all this ceremony mood, ladies and gentlemen on the government bank and the government parties: There was a sign of government policy, and that was the exclusion policy of the new Federal Chancellor – I say: Thank God – now we want to continue, as we can see today's media reports. This exclusion policy was pursued by Vrannitzky and Busek, but see: Both gentlemen have disappeared in the political diaspora – Mr. Dr. Haider, on the other hand, is still in political office and dignity, and he will continue to win! You can rely on that, Mr. Klima! Join this legacy that Erblasser Franz Vranitzky left behind! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Become a good student and a will interpreter! I can guarantee you that you will end just as the Federal Chancellor before you, Mr Franz Vrannitzky. And I say something to you, Chancellor of the Federal Republic, that I tell you in full self-confidence of what is liberal: If you believe that there can be a coalition with the FPÖ, where you can choose who is there, then you are wrong with that! That's what you're saying today. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They can choose from the members of the Austrian People's Party, but not from the liberals. That's what you can write in the main book! [[New condolences with the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The exclusion policy is now being defined differently. The SPÖ has now announced that it wants to have a sharp discussion. A sharp dispute! Would you like a taste sample of one and a half hours of sharp issues? Federal Chancellor! Is this your "smart dispute" with the FPÖ: a collection of plateaus? They have indeed endeavored honestly not to let out any words in the political language. You have endeavored honestly to include in a single government declaration all the places your predecessor has packed into several government declarations. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They have made a fair effort – with the undertone of a political monastery brother; an undertone that has even noticed every television viewer who has torn the ÖVP for certain psychological reasons for enthusiasmal storms. This undertone of a political monastery brother also took over the vice-channer in his "statement number two". For 70 minutes, you and the Austrian public served only plates, banalities and words. Apart from the insulation of federal buildings with insulation devices, there is no measure to be found in the entire declaration of government, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] So if this is your new issue with us, then we can continue to be proud as we have worked so far. And we will do the same, rely on it, Federal Chancellor! I now have to pay tribute to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany out of service Franz Vranitzky. [[Abg. Koppler: He didn't deserve that!]] He has never presented such a declaration of government to Parliament! His government proposals were also not exactly the epitome of concreteness, Mr Koppler, it was not exactly what Mr. Federal Chancellor Vranitzky has provided us. But in comparison to what you have allowed to present yourself to Parliament today, Mr. Federal Chancellor Climate, what Mr. Federal Chancellor Vranitzky offered us was an intellectual high-speed act. Ladies and gentlemen! Anneliese Rohr was right. It was a "patted general sample", she wrote yesterday in the "Presse". That press conference, in which you presented your government team, was the "badest press conference": surprisingly many empty words, contrary to all expectations hardly any concrete answers. And she went on to say: "Indistinctly he even made so many words that even one of his numerous Du-Friends" – a sign of his government policy that he showered everyone – "was probably trying to say: 'Oh, vickerl, don't chat.' Ladies and gentlemen! This is also the mark of today's government declaration. "'Go, Vickerl, play net'," Anneliese Rohner told you. And since Mrs. Rohrer was close to the hope that a patched general sample might lead to the fact that her government statement was still going on on Wednesday, she probably has to write in her comment tomorrow: Go, Vickerl, you've been peeping too long! You've been peeping again! Not only the general sample, but also the premiere, Mr. Federal Chancellor, has been patched! She's gone! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It was also an opportunity to realize your own announcements, namely to create arronded ministerial competences. We just need to look at what my colleague Haller is going to do – what women have to do. The Minister of Women has just disappeared. The government has designed this area of competence on the basis of the foreign exchange: The rest that nobody wants and the animals to the women! That was obviously the foreign exchange in the new Ministry Act! What the women have to please, every Johanna Dohnal, ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Dohnal will probably rotate at home today. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] One thing you have to say: Mrs Dohnal would not have liked her only to be able to take care of animal welfare, animal vaccination and veterinary medicinal products, just because she was not able to start with her ministry. Ladies and gentlemen! This is not the women's policy that Austrian women deserve. This is not the policy that the European Union gives you. Ladies and gentlemen! The European Union complains in the BSE study report that precisely those divisions of competence you, Mr Bundeskanzler, spoke of last week only enabled the BSE scandal. I would remind you that the Minister for Health said: The meat scandal is only possible because there are so many divisions of competence. Look You are now in your own ministry law: It only stems from division of competence in the health sector! I am sorry for Mrs Hostasch today if you have to explain to the public at the next meat scandal that you are not again responsible for the fact that Mrs Prammer or Mr Molterer are actually responsible and that the Austrians are still unable to rely on the government to do something against poor meat quality. I come back to the history of this change in government. The history is the CA deal. Ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party! A first victim has already requested this CA deal from the Socialists – you can say this with pride – namely, the victim Franz Vranitzky, who fell by his own party for suspicion, for if Raiffeisen had entered, he would have almost given them the award for the CA-Bundes Shares, he would have been forced to resign. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] His own party has taken care of this and now it is noble. Mr Klima, however, pulls you over the table. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] – Of course, you can read that, even your own ÖVP people tell you today. Mr. Klima pulls you over the table. Mr. Klima humbles you. You announce a motion of censure against Mr Klima, and two weeks later you scatter him roses. He has not yet made a confession to you in matters of subject matter, already scatter roses and cheer him up, give him blank powers and say – freely after the foreign exchange of Andreas Khol –: If we have already been told sluts and regrets, at least the Socialists should have joy! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The foreign exchange of Andreas Khol is indeed how he has presented us with words: I'm saying, I'm sorry, so I'm with the ÖVP. – Ladies and gentlemen! This is a party with "future", which is on its way to the political third force in this country. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Compared to what Obmann Schüssel did and did, his predecessor, Mr. Busek, is a true political world champion. Believe me, Mr. Vice-Chancellor's bowl! He never needed to have his own party called "students" due to his own failure. He's gone before! Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, do you know what you are? – Your own supervisor says you're a staunch hacker because he's not able to stand up to the socialists. Well, if so. They are constantly trying to be better socialists! Today, in the ÖVP of the joke, the best central secretary at the SPÖ has been hot since Fritz Marsch Wolfgang Schüssel. Because in his own party, no one believes anything anymore. You don't take him seriously there either. He is still believed by the socialists, takes him quite seriously or uses him. Mr. Jellasitz directed him: Don't question what you want in Vienna! The President of the Federal Republic of Germany has also tried to get into party politics and put pressure on Mr Jellasitz. His own party now shows him the cold shoulder. For this, he is told, he should hold himself unblemished by the socialists, which he also does with exaggeration and great praise. Ladies and gentlemen! This government is a transitional government. This government has no future. This is what every journalist who has listened today knows when the Federal Chancellor dried down his empty government statement here when the Vice-Cancellor tried to play the political monastery brother as well. [[Complaints with the liberals]] This government has no future. It will lead to a dispute between this government, led by the SPÖ, and the liberals. The conflict between climate and shark will take place. The ÖVP will be a quantité impregnable, a negligible size. She took care of it herself. [[New condolences with the liberals.]] High house! Only one party in this country will be able to cancel the reform stand which you have complained about in the last two weeks: This will be the Freedom Party when it comes to government responsibility!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e5223	The next speaker is Mrs Tichy-Schreder. - Please. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e5250	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Mag. Stadler, I think you should confuse this plenary room with a cabaret. As a young cabaretist, you are still a little weak. Our cabaretists in Austria are much better than what you have offered here. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to deal with the future aspects that the Austrian Federal Government has in mind, especially those that will now come to the new finance ministers. I see three points. The first point is the urgent need for further fiscal consolidation. I would like to ask the Minister of Finance that he first of all carry out an evaluation of the budget after the first measures taken by the Government last year, in order to see what the future will look like. I am grateful to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany for the unanimous view that the next budgets should now be negotiated so that appropriate work can be done in a certain time frame. The second point I would like to ask Mr Finanzminister is to focus more attention on a healthy or active establishment of a capital market, a capital market, which is also intended to bring the so-called medium-sized stock exchange, so that small and medium-sized enterprises have the opportunity to obtain funds on the stock exchange. This should be done throughout Austria. The Minister of Finance has not been very easy as Wiener vis-à-vis the federal states. But I give him one thing: He knows the financial representatives from the federal states, he has very good contacts, and I hope that he will benefit from them in the future in the common interest of Austria's finances. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] The third point I would like to address is the euro. The Austrian economy needs the euro, the common currency. As a representative of small and medium-sized enterprises, I have even experienced in my company how bad it is to work with four or five currency accounts, with depreciations, upgrades, how necessary it is to be competitive that one has a corresponding common stable currency. It is up to the government, under the direction of the Minister of Finance, to inform the people of our fellow citizens how stable the single currency should be in the future. However, in order to ensure this stability of the Austrian currency in the future, we need to step up our involvement in the field of education and research. I am very glad that two further research billions are now available in the course of the sale of the Creditanstalt Bank. The aim is to develop programmes, not just to complain that businesses are not spending enough on research. It is important not only to provide more resources from the State, but also to set the framework conditions that allow the private sector to spend research resources, because it is very expensive to go into research and development. It is urgently necessary to develop joint projects between science, the economy and the Ministry of Finance. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As far as training is concerned, Mr Nürnberger – my colleague, Drinkl, will come to speak on dual vocational training – I would like to tell you the following: It's about high-quality training, it's about related occupations, it's not just a job. For I have experienced that people who are good in a special profession often also have the necessary flexibility to move into other professions. If I have a good education, with which I can create more opportunities, I also manage to move to other professions. I think that is necessary, and in this direction we should do something more. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is also a question of considering the length of study periods as regards university education. They are too long in European comparison. We need to reduce study hours. We have already taken a step by setting up the technical universities. But it is also in the interest of our young people to shorten study times so that they have opportunities in other areas. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Perhaps the Minister of Finance is also called for with the stronger hand of the financial resources. We will continue to have more creativity everywhere in the future. I hope that this new team will be able to get faster and more concrete to successful laws and ways and that this will soon be implemented so that the population can experience these positive changes around the economic and labour location of Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e5340	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please. Voluntary time limit: 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e5362	Federal Chancellor! [[Abg. Dr Schmidt: He's not here!]] Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Last Wednesday we debated with the then Minister of Finance on the "heaviest heritage", as we have baptized it, and I think we have agreed on why the task of this new government in the coming years will not be simple. I would like to sum up once again: It's right, Mr. Schüssel, what you said: Austria is a wealthy country, and we have stability. This will not be disputed, it is also recognised as one of the achievements of this government, but the criticism goes in the direction: At what price have you reached this state of affairs? In this regard, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, even though the government parties and the members of the government do not want to say ten times, the economic data speak a clear, alarming language, as I believe. It is now true that in the meantime we are no longer growth leaders, but growth is closing. It is now true that, unlike other European countries, the trend in public debt is pointing in the wrong direction. It is now true that the total number of persons employed has fallen and the employment rate – especially those of women – is alarming. Ladies and gentlemen! This has nothing to do with sick-jammering; that's just your defense reflex. If you criticize, it says: For God's sake, he wants to suffer! – I don’t want to be sick, but I don’t want to have this health surgery either. I do not just want to see one side of the medal, I want both sides to be sober. Only then will we move on. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I believe that it has been no different to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany in this short period than to present a striking statement of government here. I think that there are keywords and that there are many formulas, is right, but it was probably not different to expect either. But one thing we should say positively: He has recognized the signs of time and also formulated them. I am particularly pleased that, as I see it, there have also been reflections which, since we have been a Liberal Forum in this House, we have always made our own essential point of view. The issues of the reconstruction of the state, the flexibility of working time and industrial regulations, the issues of social networks and the reliability of transfers are now identified in this paper. You've been answered. The question for me is: Will they also be implemented? I have already read some government declarations and many budget speeches due to various times of preparation, and I find basically the same – and this has been going on for many years: In the analysis of the situation, this House has always agreed – even three years ago, even five years ago, even ten years ago when this coalition came to power – but in the implementation of the necessary measures to achieve a certain defined goal, opinions have been dissociated. This is, in my view, also the problem of this government climate I. Let me give some examples of this: [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] It is clear that we have the biggest problem – that cannot be said often enough – in the development of unemployment numbers. We have various instruments that we have already heard in this and in another government statement, such as the ecologicalisation of our tax system, the relief of the labour cost factor and the burden on non-renewable resources. Mr Schüssel said today that there was a need to do something in the cost of work, but of course not in the sense that work as a whole is getting cheaper and people less deserved. – Yes, Mr Schüssel, you have said that several times, but it has not been implemented so far. And why hasn't it been implemented? - Because you failed in your own ranks. They have not failed in the opposition, they have not failed because the population did not want such a change, but they have failed to have bearings in your government groups that reflectly prevent a renewal, a reform shift of the other camp. This leads to the paralysis of politics as we can observe it. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] If you, Mr Schüssel, say today – which has made me particularly horrified – you will again address the social partners with the question of working time flexibility, then I must say: For God's sake! Mr Schüssel and Mr Klima, I ask you to rule for yourself and do not let the social partners rule continuously! Solution You yourself are the problems! Come with a solution to this House, then you will even receive applause from the opposition! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Mr Vergestnich, we will see. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nürnberger.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We know the difficult situation and we know that Austria's economic location is at risk. It is hard to see, you only need to hit the economic side, then you know who moves down, who locks up, who gets into insolvency. These companies do not do so voluntarily, and we all know the consequences. That would be one of the starting points where we need to intervene. But in this regard, Federal Chancellor, your government statement has electrified me, because you say what we need is a location marketing. The only thing I want to benefit you is that you have not written this sentence yourself, because as an experienced man of the economy you need to know that marketing can only sell a good product. What we need is a basis to produce the product accordingly. We must shape the economic location of Austria in such a way that it is adopted, then it is a self-runner, then the investments and the enterprises will come. I do not want to argue that we have had some success in the past, but we also have the opposite trend. We need to do much more. We need to improve the location of Austria in quality and not just market it. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Another aspect of this debate is that we are always putting ourselves in the chest and saying that we have a tax system that is exemplary in Europe. I would like to admit - and I have often acknowledged it from this pult - that we have actually made progress in the corporate tax system with the second tax reform. However, I would like to point out, ladies and gentlemen, that, unlike Germany, we have 20 percent VAT. In Germany it is 16 percent, and these 4 percentage points should not make us proud. We also bought our tax reform, which we have to admit, with a high consumption tax. One can be of different opinion, in particular you, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democratic Party, who always place special emphasis on social balance and always lead it in the mouth. This must not be forgotten if we are discussing the current problems of poverty, the problems of social compensation. I am saying this here because my group and I are very often opposed to the social cold, as if it were not our concern as well as yours, that we should achieve corresponding progress in these essential areas, which are the basis for everything, even for the economy. We Liberals believe that the social component is irreplaceable to a flourishing economy – and not vice versa. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] But let me come back to the Government Declaration. The Federal Chancellor, for example, has taken up something important in his statement of government, which we have long called for, namely the subject of reconstruction of the state. It says that the administrative state is transformed into a service state. This, Mr President-in-Office of the Council and Mr Vice-Chancellor, is truly an urgent concern that we have always felt to be such. Why? – Austria has 22 out of 100 employees in the public service, Germany – they are not yet world champions yet – has 16 out of 100 employees in the public service, Switzerland – and it is not yet the leader – has only half of Austria, 11 of 100 people in public service. In Japan, six out of 100 people are in the public service. With this comparison, ladies and gentlemen, you can see in what grip we are in. We'd kill the central director, say an entrepreneur. We have to intervene in the central direction, there we have a potential for savings! And now, in his government statement, the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany has said exactly that: Yes, we must come from the administrative state to the service state. He's done even more. He has provided a State Secretary for this under the Change of Competence Act. I remember very well: I made a visit to a prominent minister of the ÖVP in his ministry, and he was a minister of administrative reform at the time, and before him there were some others, and everyone in this party survived only one man, and that is Mr Dohr. Now, Federal Chancellor, the big question is: How to become Do you really recognize and analyze these ideas against the resistance of affected groups, of affected strong groups, of groups with political power? How to become You break this resistance, and how will you implement the right ideas that you present to us here? – You will be measured by this, Federal Chancellor. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] In no way can we defend the Pragmatization with teeth and claws, that we defend ridicules such as lunch breaks for officials – I mean, as an economic operator, there will be no doubt about which topics there are in this country – and it cannot be that we are always talking about long procedural periods and that we have closed offices if people have time to deal with their obligations or their administrative ways. These are the wrong approaches. This has nothing to do with the extreme couples – one says nothing can be changed, and the other says to do market, market, market – as you have called them in a different context. These are not the opposites, as Dr Schmidt has already noted. They are also misused! – Lord Dohr fears: Yes, if we do that, that's market, market, market, and that's bad! And someone else who has a radical desire to change says: Nothing's moving! – In this way we only block ourselves. You, Federal Chancellor, are following the idea of – you say “outsourcing”, because you love this word, as I know; I have no problem with it – outsourcing of state services into other forms of organization, for example in private. Of course, I am a follower of such a course and have always said: The State must once become aware of what it must necessarily do in its own administration and what can be outsourced. The question cannot be asked the other way round: What can the state do, but it has to say: What must he do, and to that he must be limited. All that another, a private, can do is do it, because, ladies and gentlemen, he makes it better, he makes it cheaper, he does it with another driver, and this driver is his own interest and his own responsibility. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Koppler: Then there are no bankruptcys!]] If you say, Mr Schüssel, that it is one of the great I should like to say, Mr President, that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to turnover taxes is a matter for the Member States of the European Parliament and of the Council. Yes, but say yes. At least this was done at the expense of taxpayers and accompanied by a 120-billion schilling gift. This simply corresponds to fairness, and political hygiene requires that you at least mention this second side. Not you, not the coalition government has this merit, but the Austrians who have baffled 120 billion schilling for this game. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Koppler: Then you have to say fairly what these companies have done for the construction of Austria!]] I'll do it, Mr. Koppler. I'll do it, you know that. [[Abg. Koppler: Tell us what these businesses have done!]] Mr Koppler, give S’Ruh’! [[Abg. Koppler: But it is true!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! But let us return to these ideas again. We've been privatizing a lot. Our Minister for Economic Affairs has privatized, but – I am sorry to have to say this – it is really unbearable for me if I am received abroad with a smiling face and hear: Aha, you're from the country of the Vignette! Or: They come from the country of contract of work! Or: They come from the land of Sowieso. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: They come from the land of the Goldeck cable car!]] Ladies and gentlemen! This has to be mentioned: By incompetence, you ruin a right and important principle from the ÖVP. We have to run outsourcing, but we have to be able to do it too! We must outsource and also take responsibility for it – but not deliver it as it has been proved in this case. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] This puss – that must be said, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP – does not exist only there: They also have other things in store in this respect. Unfortunately, Mr. Stummvoll is not present, but a keyword is called Workers' Protection Act. [[Many calls to the ÖVP.]] This, ladies and gentlemen, is not laws or measures that strengthen Austria's economic location and bring a solution to the essentials! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Finally, Mr Bundeskanzler, of course I would also like to congratulate you and the newly mentioned members of the government, but also the old ones. We will continue our previous, material and even very exciting cooperation from my side – if I may say so – and we will measure you, Federal Chancellor, by how you break these resistances in your own party and at your coalition partner. It's entirely up to you whether you're going with the sugar bread or with the whip – in order to take on a symbol –: You'll need both; one side might be a little bit more whipping, that might be already. In any case, I wish you every success! And because I'm out of construction, I also allow myself to express this beautiful building and mining word that Mr. Klubobmann has already predicted: Federal Chancellor, good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e5570	The next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Mertel. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e5591	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen of the government! In its declaration of government, Viktor Klima has highlighted the priorities, namely the absolute priority for employment and the fight against unemployment. Mr. Hazelsteiner! This is important to us Social Democrats. – Do not flirt with our Social Minister now, for she is responsible for work contracts and for the provisions of the Workers' Protection Act, which are so thorns in your mind, but suddenly you will find contacts with her. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: I'm flirting with you too!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: I congratulated you!]] Mr. Hazelsteiner! Of course, we are in favour of social compensation, and we not only lead it in our mouths, but also strive to enforce it. But your economic glasses are very heavily colored on the economy, and I find this very unfortunate. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] You have also lost sight of the fact that Mr Federal Chancellor Viktor Klima has repeatedly thanked the Austrians. That is to say, he is well aware of who has achieved this achievement of 120 billion schilling. He also thanked himself again and again for coming along with the Austrians in the savings package. There is a fundamental structural change in the labour market – as Viktor Klima mentioned – and he means – that is also reflected in his written paper – that we must learn and teach mobility. – Yes, learning and teaching mobility, but, Federal Chancellor, we must also avoid one thing: the polarization on the labour market of the internal community between well-earned, mobile and constantly continuing workers and that group of non-mobiles – these are mostly women. In addition, one might have to add that this is one thing, because one has to say: Live the single! It is very mobile and can continue to develop. The best way to ensure the social standards is to achieve the best possible employment situation, as the Federal Chancellor has sought and – I am convinced of this – will also be achieved. A well-developed social state is an important factor for justice, stability and purchasing power in a highly developed industrial society. But social solidarity, as it was called for, can only work, ladies and gentlemen, if all people have work and therefore income. Contrary to all the opinions that constantly call into question the financial viability of the social state, we social democrats make a clear commitment to the social state, to financial security and to safeguard the rights of workers. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The focus of an offensive social policy is, of course, the situation of women in the working world, and the development and safeguarding of their rights. Mrs Schmidt! If you thought that the intention was to abolish the women's ministry, then you probably heard the grass grow – and that can't grow now in winter. As you judge the competence of women and the competence assigned to them by the Federal Minister for Women's Affairs and Consumer Protection, it is only the conclusion that you consider women to be low-ranking beings. [[Abg. Mag Barmüller: Unfortunately she has been gone for a long time!]] In any case, I would like to wish the Minister of Women much strength and great success in the implementation of her concerns, which are also ours. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: She's gone a long time ago!]] She will probably have allowed herself to go to dinner at two o'clock in the afternoon. It is certainly a paradox that women are on the one hand in the world of work, on the other hand in a family world, but these two worlds must unite women. In fact, the role of women has changed significantly. Women's participation in education has increased, the employment rate has increased, women now have greater economic independence. It is a fact that in recent years, in this House, positive laws have been created for women, laws within the meaning of women. Let's just think about the equal treatment package. Or do we remember that we have also created retirement periods for women in the form of child rearing periods. Nevertheless, we must repeatedly point out that women in the family, women in society, women in the economy are disadvantaged, and that, although they have a higher employment rate and have greater economic independence, women are almost alone in family work. For women, the world of work still means lower income and lower bases on social security, interrupted employment because of family work, resulting in lower periods of insurance and higher unemployment, including long-term unemployment. The consequences can be read, for example, in the 1995 Social Report: lower pensions, lower social benefits, such as emergency aid, unemployment benefit and sickness benefit. Inconsistencies: high prosperity and at the same time poverty. Poverty keyword: Poverty can befall anyone, says the Federal Chancellor rightly, but especially vulnerable are single parents and low-income families in terms of unemployment, indebtedness et cetera. Factors that lead to more poverty in women are, for example, forms of part-time work, work on demand, employment under the.... [[the speaker hesitates briefly]] [[Call the SPÖ:Lowness limit!]] Now I almost had a movie tear. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Hopefully you didn't catch the wrong speech!]] Here the existence is not secured. Ladies and gentlemen, I unfortunately did not understand you. But that's probably not bad. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Hopefully you don't have the wrong talk!]] No, I checked that before. Because I don't have the problem you have: You always use the same text. I am therefore also taking along documents. [[Cheerfulness and applause with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] The situation of women in the family world also means – I have already mentioned this – the sole responsibility for family work. This gives women a longer total working time and most of the unpaid work, which remains for them. Here too, we make a clear commitment, and here too we have a concept to be able to take appropriate measures. [[Intercession with the liberals.]] - Do you join us? Some of these measures mentioned only briefly: Special programmes for returnees after retirement, special promotions for girls and women with regard to the expansion of the professional spectrum and promotion of occupational education and training, but also for workers-friendly – and that should also mean: family-friendly – flexibilization of working time at collective contract level. So we confess to the openness of new forms of work. Today, there is a trend towards working time forms that do not fall within the ruling insurance system. That is why, if we already want to flexibilisation, we will have to secure it. Because of the particular situation of women, these working hours are mostly female and family-responsive today. The real solution of flexibilization must benefit both sides. It is therefore necessary to prevent flexibilization from becoming a synonym for wage reduction programmes and job reduction programmes. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] When we talk about equal treatment and equality between social democrats, we mean the social and economic equality of women. We therefore need forms of life and work which guarantee women equal access to employment, equal access to training, equal access to career opportunities, equal pay and equal conditions at work for the self-employed, but also self-employed. But in order not to fail at the border of the private – often one has the impression that the private is only touching the family, the woman, the man, the children – by protecting the benefits of the smaller part of the population, namely the men, and by concealing the disadvantages of the others, namely the women, and then being classified as being highly private, there must be a further development, a process of change of consciousness and a further development of marriage and family law. Another focus is on our positions on family promotion. In the first place, there is still the expansion of benefits in kind, such as childcare facilities in a wide variety of forms and the safeguarding of existing benefits – I emphasize: Benefits in kind; the Federal Minister for Family Affairs is not there – but not a transformation into cash benefits, such as in school book action or school-free travel. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We also want to maintain the principle of individual taxation and not only to reduce family support to tax policy. We see family support comprehensively: a catalogue of measures of transfers, tax measures, services of municipalities and countries, benefits in kind and benefits of social security schemes. The focus of any reform of family support must therefore be on low-income families, child families and single parents with low incomes – and not on the best-earning families. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] We therefore have to repaint within our total volume of 200 billion schilling. We Socialists want the transfer services to be especially beneficial to those whom they really need. These are mainly multi-child families with low incomes and single parents. We know that these groups are particularly vulnerable. We must therefore effectively address all forms of so-called new poverty, which we unfortunately face despite the high use of public funds. This includes a bundle of measures as presented by Federal Chancellor Viktor Klima today: To secure employment, to create new jobs, particularly for women, to secure the social state, to further reform: In order for us to succeed, it is important to meet the challenges of the future.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e5767	The next word is spoken by Mrs Ing. Langthaler. Please, ladies and gentlemen. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e5789	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen of the new Federal Government! High house! If one considers the government bank as it has been presenting itself to one for two hours, one must again regret that it is not, as in many other parliaments, also with us, that a new Federal Government must have something like a vote of confidence in Parliament. Then, attention to the government bank – especially with the new members of the government – might be somewhat greater in the various debates. I am glad that the new Minister for Finance is still here on the Government Bank. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The new Minister of Social Affairs! The new Minister of the Interior!]] Of course, it would be interesting to deal with the new Minister for Women, who left the hall at the time when the first woman took the floor here. I hope that's not a bad omen. [[Objection to the SPÖ.]] I've paid attention, please! That was so! First of all, very briefly on the subject of art and culture, which my predecessor Petrovic has already mentioned. We have been criticizing for days that this area is being integrated into the Federal Chancellery, as it is obvious that the new Federal Chancellor has just taken those two ministers out of the shooting line, which in recent times, especially on the part of the Boulevard press, were extremely controversial. It was obviously a huge provocation for many in this country that a former social worker can be and is an interior minister, and that an intellectual Schöngeist is a minister of art, who has allowed a lot of things to be done in open art and also in a corresponding discussion – and also for this, of course, was beaten by the boulevard press. I very much hope that the Federal Chancellor will not be "excellent" in the future, in order to make himself known to the powerful media, and therefore to refrain from all critical areas, especially in art. That is why we are bringing forward the following motion for a resolution, which is precisely because of this concern: [[Quoted print version removed]] But now to a second and, of course, central area, which is a future area and which the Federal Chancellor did not at all address in his statement of government: the environment. Environmental policy has unfortunately become a very underrepresented area in internal policy for years since, as admittedly, problems in the labour market, although it is detectable – not only in many studies, but also in concrete experiences – that it is possible to secure jobs, on the one hand, and on the other hand, to benefit from modern technologies and research facilities, on the other hand. We discussed an ecological tax reform very intensively years ago. There are very, very good, formulated models of different pages. The Greens have already submitted an appropriate legislative proposal here three years ago. There were then negotiations, but there has never been a result, although one agrees on and for itself that the future must be called in tax law: Reduce labour costs, increase taxes on resources as a whole and, of course, as a first step, focus on fossil energy sources, i.e. classical energy taxes. We very much hope, Minister of Finance, that you will be ready for discussion in this area. There were many initiatives, then still under your predecessor Lacina, all in the sand. Europe has overtaken us far. We are now the final light in this area in the European environment, as in many other environmental areas. And the Federal Government still believes that Austria is a pioneer in the environmental field because of two events: One reason is still the vote on Zwentendorf, the other is the occupation of Hainburg and the prevention of a power plant. A modern environmental policy is no longer being worked on at all, and it is a fact that in this regard all the other countries in Europe have long overtaken us. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This does not apply to the ecologicalisation of the tax systems, where it really has to be done to introduce energy taxes, wastewater taxes, pesticides taxes, but there is a range of examples that have already been successfully tried out in other countries and where there has been a very concrete reduction in environmental pollution. A second area: An environmental liability law was always included as a fixed component in the last government declarations by Federal Chancellor Vranitzky. This is a very important measure in relation to which we have been trying to achieve something in Austria for years. It was the then Minister and current Federal Chancellor climate, who in July 1993 prevented a corresponding vote in the Council of Ministers on a draft Council of Ministers by Minister Michalek from becoming an environmental liability law in Austria. At the time, it unfortunately also appealed with the Federal Minister for Climate Change. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Perhaps it is possible that a law, which would be important not only in the field of today's prominent genetic technology, but in the whole of the environment, would help to break through. Who really assumes liability for resulting damage? How can it finally be achieved that those who suffer concrete damage due to environmental damage are also compensated accordingly? The debate is completely torn off; the current Chancellor has not even mentioned this issue in his statement of government. A third important area in environmental law was cited, but unfortunately in a completely wrong context. The Federal Chancellor meant, in environmental investment law, that there is now an acceleration in the trade order. – That’s basic falsity! I know the draft of Minister Farnleitner and I have been really busy with environmental plant law for ten years now. It has once again failed to integrate something meaningful, something that we Greens are also calling for, into a uniform environmental plant law, namely that there is a process and a control concentration. That sounds very complicated now, but would be very simple. You know, every entrepreneur who wants to build an investment in Austria needs a sum of approvals: according to water law, according to energy law, according to the air law, according to the waste law, according to the commercial regulations and according to many other legal forms. We've been saying for years: There is no human being at all known, neither the entrepreneurs, who need all the highly paid lawyers and lawyers, nor the arrants, who no longer know what procedures they can take, where they have a party position and where they do not. It would therefore be important for all parties involved – for entrepreneurs, but also for the arrants – to have a simple, streamlined system law with clear administrative procedures, where it is regulated that all environmental media are really negotiated in one, with a clearly competent authority at the same time. This would save incredibly much administrative costs, of course, would also save a lot of officials in this area, but would mean planning security and control security. We have also discussed with people from the ministries in many, many working groups, and everyone knows that. What is now being presented in the new trade regulation? – It basically remains everything with the old with the approvals. The only thing that is changed is: They simply cut the rights of the people. There time limits are reduced, there opposition opportunities are simply eliminated, and it is not at all possible to create a modern plant law that has long been in place in other European countries. You will not speed up the procedures, you will only potentiate and increase the civilian resistance. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] A third area, which is very important, is an area in which a great deal is happening in Europe: energy policy. There are huge challenges in this respect, but there has been no response from the Federal Chancellor at all. A central area for us is genetic engineering, which has previously been established in Austria at the Ministry of Health. – Also a curiosum. It is the rule throughout Europe that this area is located in the Ministry of the Environment – and now it is subject to a woman's minister! I do not know why the Minister for Women is now responsible for genetic engineering or consumer protection. The only explanation seems to be that, as far as consumer protection is concerned, women are still the only ones who go shopping and care about whether products are good or not. Otherwise, I can't see a scientific connection. But, well, genetic engineering is coming to the Minister of Women. We very much hope that the SPÖ will succeed in finally finding a contact person who is really interested in this issue. However, for political, internal and political reasons, I consider the following – and if you look at the allocation of competence of the Minister of Women, you can see that this is really in the eye: The new Minister for Women is responsible not only for consumer policy and food control, but also for the whole of the toxic right and the nuclear sector, for general protection against ionising and non-ionizing radiation, and of course for genetic engineering. In the Federal Government, a kind of counterweight to the EIA Environment Minister Bartenstein was created, so to speak, a small Minister for the Environment on the side of the SPÖ. I welcome this, as a start perhaps, that the SPÖ Group has succeeded in raising overall environmental interest. Unfortunately, they no longer have an environmental speaker in the SPÖ – and that has not been the case for years. [[Objection to the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Koppler: What do you have against Deputies Doppelmüller?]] You have an industrial speaker, but you don't have an environmental speaker. The Minister may indeed be able to say that SPÖ is a little more concerned with environmental policy. The new Minister of Women will probably no longer have much to do with women's policy, but she will be very much involved in some areas of environmental policy, because consumer policy and, above all, genetic engineering – nuclear policy anyway – are, of course, a central environmental issue. We offer serious cooperation. There is much to do, even in connection with the popular desire that it will be thank God, because the fears and fears of the population have not been included in the current Austrian laws on genetic engineering. There must be a strong signal from the population in April, and we very much hope that, in advance and afterwards, a new contact person will be better able to work together than before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e5884	The motion for a resolution that has just been read has been properly tabled, is supported accordingly and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Schwarzenberger is now on the floor. - Please. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e5908	Mr President. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Mrs Langthaler, during the negotiations on EU accession, concerns were repeatedly expressed by the Green Group that we could not keep the high environmental standard, which Austria has in many things, when it comes to accession to the EU. This is going to be the opposite, now we have to be imitators at once. This is not possible in two years. In addition, the Austrian farmers are world champions, so to speak, as far as the number of organic farmers is concerned. There are more than 20 000 organic farmers in Austria, and only about 17 000 in the other 14 EU countries. This is the attitude that our people have towards the environment and nature. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Niederwieser.]] Unfortunately, Mr Haselsteiner is not in the hall right now. In his speech, he presented Austria as ridiculous abroad. – Austria is seen abroad as a highly developed and powerful state! If you find something ridiculous abroad, then at most that the country sells a cable car by 1 s with stock guarantee, but this cable car is then laundered in such a way that serious accidents occur. It's not supposed to make you laugh at the state! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Nearly half of the Austrian population lives in rural areas, and it is our job to maintain this rural area functionally and healthyly. I am glad that the new finance minister is still sitting here on the government bank, and I ask him to lend my ear briefly, because I think he should jump over his shadow on this question. In the meantime, all small rural communities in the rural area offer the same services as the cities. In the original explanation of the graded population key, it is said that there are many war damage in the cities and therefore the cities need to be better considered by the common tax cake. In the meantime, however, every small community that needs a kindergarten must have facilities for small children, playgrounds, sports courts, a water supply and disposal facility – all the services that need to be provided. That is why we should gradually change this graded population key in favour of small communities. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Meisinger.]] The recent years have been a huge challenge for the Austrian peasantry. It was important to give up a market protected by market rules and to enter into free European competition in a single market in which other countries already have a much longer control over the rules of free competition. For this reason, we need four main priorities: First: We should try to ensure that the Austrian farmers can take advantage of the market opportunities. In this respect, a call for consumers in Austria: Never before have our farmers covered the table of the people with food so good quality and in such a lush way. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's right!]] You just need to grab it. In many areas the goods are better than foreign products. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Secondly, Our farmers, because their farms are so small, need a combined income, which also includes a non-agricultural income. However, market opportunities need to be used where market niches are still available. That is why, in the future revision of the trade regulation, we must also have the opportunity to promote a market economy, namely direct sales, by putting it on a legal footing. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Thirdly, We also need European prices in terms of operating resources. It is not possible for us to place ourselves in competition with European products and, despite better quality, our prices are partly below the European average, but we must take up much higher prices in operating resources. Fourth: Farmers too have invested a lot in recent years in order to be Europe mature. In the case of flatrates, the ratio of the pre-tax to the VAT to be charged is no longer correct. The Treaty of Europe lays down adaptation, and this adjustment is overdue. I hope and I am confident that the current coalition government will be mastering these tasks in the next few years.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e5977	Mr Magistrate has now been reported to speak. Chief. - Please. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e5998	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Dear Members of the Government! High house! First of all, I would like to correct my previous speaker, Mr Schwarzenberger. He referred to the Goldeck cable car and to Mr. Hazelsteiner. – It's not as simple as you've done, it's not. There are two of them to put such abuses into the world. Only a country's exclusion agreement allows an entrepreneur who is at least on the brink of Manchester-Liberism to take this facility, and thus an entire region, into hostages. Secondly, it should also be pointed out that such exclusion contracts, i.e. the privatisation of the Austrian advertising and of the transport office, were in place with this Federal Government or with its predecessors on the government bank. Therefore, such contracts on privatisation and dissemination can only be assessed if the dissemination has taken place. In the past, not all distributions should be pushed into the wrong light. However, I would also like to look at your comments on agriculture, Mr Schwarzenberger, because some things should already be added: It is not only about production prices, but it will also be a question in two years that, if the degressive payments are lost, our farms will finally be in a fair competition – you have rightly said, the organically producing world champions are in Austria – in a fair competition. As a matter of fact, it will be important to ensure that the obligation to label products produced in a natural and organic way provides the consumer with a fair basis of comparison – or whether, as in the past, organic farmers in Austria have to compete in an uneven competition with products that are falsely or misleadingly labeled on the market, or whether they have to deal with a few novices. The Styrian nuclear scandal in the last few days has shown that the efforts of our organic farmers have been thrown back for years with a blow. I therefore believe that the division of competence of the former Ministry of Health is very difficult. The fact that the veterinary sector, consumer protection and the field of food research institutes, as well as the veterinary research institutes are now attached to the Ministry of Women, seems to me to be very problematic. We liberals were always of the opinion that the Ministry of Health could reasonably be converted into a Ministry of Life. We were also always of the opinion that health skills, such as those of social security, can be established in the Social Ministry. But how we have now divided the competences – in my opinion arbitrary – certainly does not find the consent of our liberals. In the future, this confusion of competence will continue to lead consumers to abuses both in the food market and in the field of veterinary medicine and public health. I think this division is very bad. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In principle, there is nothing to say about the redistribution of competences, but very probably against those measures set out in the Qualifications Change Act. I also believe that the analysis that the Federal Chancellor has presented today – and other speakers have already said that – is quite correct. This Federal Government will create political framework conditions in the economic field for the future, which will not be satisfactory for the Austrians. If you look at the 1997 study of the labour market service, you can see from point 3 that the wage round will not compensate for inflation and the increase in taxation – a forecast which is not exactly reassuring for the population who are being shaken by the climate change saving package of Mr. Klima. If one sees that a net decline of 14 000 jobs has been forecast in jobs and employment and that we already have an unemployment rate this year, which is the "tip" - in a negative way - nothing positive can be expected for the future situation. There is also nothing positive about officials in Austria. Since the introduction in the monarchy of a structural commission on civil service reform and economy in the administration, my previous speakers have also said that the situation has only worsened. I would like to correct the new Chancellor in so far as the positive balance sheet of last year, which he has drawn, is very questionable on many points. The abolition of the 50 000 S-Mindest-Köst by the Constitutional Court has already been mentioned. The contract regulations will soon be repealed, as the eyes are right. Horizontal injustice in family taxation is no longer a question, that will be solved. The increased access to early pensions – something that has not been brought into the discussion today – has to be the responsibility of this Federal Government or the Vranitzky Climate Cabinet. The long-term debate on early retirement has led to more early pensioners in Austria now than ever was the case. The current figures from October 1996: 20.3% early pensioners, alone last year had an increase of 15.2 percent to 20.3%. The effects will be evident in the future. These early pensioners will eat us away between 0.5 and 0.8 percent of the growth of gross domestic product in the coming years – and that in the truest sense of the word. [[Abg. Kopper: Language control!]] We will therefore have to have a gross domestic product of 0.8% higher in the next few years, only to be able to secure early pensioners in the appropriate form. And there is no positive economic effect, Mr Koppler. [[Abg. Koppler: "early pensioners will eat it away"! Language control!]] Mr Koppler, the increase in early pensions will take away 0.8% of the increase in gross domestic product. That will not be disputed. There are no relevant social experts in this Republic who put other figures on the table. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Only with an increase in growth will it be possible to create new jobs in this Republic, Mr Koppler. Take notice 0.8 percent are obvious, and this will not be changed. [[Abg. Koppler: It's about the language scheme!]] [[Abg. May. Guggenberger: It is about the word "eating away"!]] No matter what you call it, whether you call it a loss, as a need, or whatever: We'll need this 0.8 percent. Only with what goes beyond that can we create new jobs. The forecasts are 1.3 to 1.5 percent for the next year. The economic situation is saddened, and we will all have to try to make the most of these bad economic data for the population and employment. Mr Koppler, I am grateful to you for being able to nod and make friends with the facts I have shown here, because you should also note that the situation regarding unemployment is by no means as positive as that of the government. As a member of the Committee, you know very well that the better data from December are due to the following effects: more employment of men in the construction industry, the weather situation and the changes at the building workers' compensation fund – nothing else. There are 10 000 employees in women and 3 600 in men. This situation is not exactly reassuring. We liberals have been right: Women's employment has not been facilitated by the measures taken last year, but will, on the contrary, worsen. The situation of women in Austria is not as bad as it has been for years. Mrs Mertel was quite right with the words she addressed here from the speaker's desk to the Austrians and to this Federal Government. Only one thing she has forgotten is that this bad situation for women in Austria is also the "success" of ten years of great coalition. They shall be responsible for these measures. The Ministry of Women has moved a lot in the psychological field in Austria, but what the current working situation, which is the result of the payment, is very little. These are the facts that the former minister Dohnal had to admit recently in a television discussion. Federal Chancellor! I would have liked you to make a government statement today, as you made party friends in New Zealand three years ago. They have actually changed the state radically. In a short time, what we want for Austria was achieved: a prosperous country with low unemployment, high economic growth and thus corresponding social security. – After your statement of Government, Federal Chancellor, I mean: We are further away from these goals than we were five or six years ago. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e6089	Mr Parnigoni has now been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e6111	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mr President, I think we should talk briefly about why there was excitement in your remarks here. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not that one cannot discuss facts, a matter of subject matter, but it is about how to put it in a language. It's just a difference when you say the early pensioners take something away from us – or: they "eat" us something away. That, Mr President, is what has excited us: this division that you have used in this sensitive question. I'd like to tell you: We cannot accept that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Let me get in with a personal experience in my actual statements. A few days after Mag. The climate as a transport minister was an important decision for my region, the forest district, in the house, whether the Franz-Josefs-Bahn should be electrified. That was a wish borne by all the parties, by the entire population. There was, of course, the support of the freshly baked transport minister for this legitimate request. However, if I remember correctly, Finance Minister Lacina was concerned at the time, and this led to a decisive discussion under the chairmanship of the then Federal Chancellor Vrannitzky. In this debate with the representatives of the region, Transport Minister Klima implemented himself with the support of the then Federal Chancellor. We have been able to meet this wish and this modernisation shift in the transport infrastructure of the forest district. For this reason, I would like to join the former Federal Chancellor Dr. Vranitzky and the new Federal Chancellor Mag. Climate, above all, for their regional policy commitment, which they have shown here, thank you very much. As a Lower Austrian, I am pleased that now someone from Lower Austria who knows the diversity of our country will guide and guide the abilities of our Republic. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Is it already electrified?]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Federal Chancellor Mag. Climate has shown in its statement that the world is on the move that there will be new markets and that we will experience new conditions and conditions of competition. Globalisation and liberalisation have become a key element in politics, new technologies are changing the economy and thus also the working world. If we note, for example in the European Union, that Austria has the second lowest unemployment rate, it must be noted that employment policy has absolute priority and must be a central focus of policy. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that the basis for Austria's remaining an investment site is a modern, efficient infrastructure, particularly in the field of transport and telecommunications. Transport policy will play an important role in this ever-changing world. There is no question that the accession of Austria to the European Union and the planned enlargements of this market will greatly strengthen both the exchange of goods and the human relations. It has been important for Austria to be integrated into the trans-European networks. Through our country there are important transversals: for example, the Pontebana axis with the Semmering base tunnel, the Danube axis with the four-track extension or the Brenner axis, which concerns the construction of the Brenner Base Tunnel. All of these rail transversals will be of great importance to us in order to ensure the quality of Austria's location. High house! With the Rail Infrastructure Finance Act, we have laid the financial basis. It is now about implementing, treating and finishing, in cooperation with the local authorities, many of the projects that have already been planned, which can also produce high job creation effects. To that end, all of us have to put a stop to selfish particular interests of the countries, and the administrative procedures need to be dealt with quickly and efficiently. We must ensure that these projects can be implemented quickly by improving project management and that tax schilling is used sparingly but also at work. I would therefore ask the country representatives, such as the head of state in Lower Austria, to withdraw from the deceleration policy which leads to jobs being threatened and to an increase in the cost of such important infrastructure projects. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is equally important that there is a functioning communication, a telecommunications system in that country. In this particular case, In addition to greatly improving the location quality of our country, the increase and quality improvement of the offer will also bring about job-creating effects. The granting of a second and a forthcoming third mobile licence and the liberalisation of the telephone network and telecommunications services will enable new providers to create new jobs in this growing market. Dynamically growing industries mean more jobs and thus bread for people. But we have another access to these changes that challenge us all. It is about trying to make use of the technological possibilities that are offered to us in order to pursue employment policy. The statements of the liberals, for example, recently on the subject of postal and telecommunications, were merely used to stir up emotions and create uncertainty. On the part of the FPÖ, it was announced that in the context of these structural changes about 8,000 posters would lose their job. Ladies and gentlemen! To this day, no single poster has lost his job. I would like to say this in public and with all the clarity. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: You explained this differently at the last session!]] I am convinced that the Members of this House will take advantage of the opportunity they have given them. Post and Telekom AG will ensure that it can claim its offer at Austria's site accordingly and that in the future, jobs will still be available in sufficient quantity or that no one will lose his job for this reason. High house! Mr Bundeskanzler Klima mentioned that mobility is a requirement in a changing working society. It will therefore be necessary to find a common responsibility of the local authorities, the federal authorities, the Länder and the local authorities in order to make the offer of local transport even more efficient and high-quality by reorganising the alliances. It will also be necessary, in a joint effort, to ensure that this important area is financed. A comment on road transport. I believe that it must be the objective of transport policy to operate transport policy to protect the weaker and, as far as possible, to save human life every day. This is a requirement that I believe they can support all parties' parliamentarians. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Gatterer.]] In discussing the transport safety package, which will be working on us in the near future, I therefore also hope for the support of colleagues from all political camps. The aim will be to reduce the level of alcohol in the road traffic regulations, to impose more stringent sanctions in the event of higher alcoholisation, to introduce the point driver's licence and EU driving licence, and also to reach an agreement on whether driving by light on the day is not, after all, a transport policy important measure. I am convinced that if we have an objective discussion, we will jointly reach a majority to protect people in the transport sector. A word on a comment by Mr Klubobmann Stadler in his speech. He meant that this government didn't have a future. – Ladies and gentlemen! I understand the trouble of the liberals. I am aware that, according to the statements made by German Chancellor Klima and by Vice-Chancellor Schüssel, both of them said that they would jointly shape this legislative period by the end of 1999, they would be embarrassed as to their claims such as: in 2000 they will take over power in that state, in 1994 they will manage it, in 1995 they will be the first, in 1998 they will put the government. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] You explained this to me. These explanations, even if you add a fourth now, are naturally in danger of becoming declarations with a long beard. Ladies and gentlemen! You can rely on it – and you can point out to Mr Stadler – that we will make great efforts to ensure that after the year 2000, he will be able to hold this speech again, if he is still in this House. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: You were very successful with these efforts! But we take responsibility!]] [[Abg. Rossmann: Is that your concept of democracy?]] High house! Ladies and gentlemen! We wish the Climate I Cabinet much success, for the benefit of the people in this Republic, and we wish after the year 1999 a continuation with a Climate II cabinet. Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] 14.5 1
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e6222	Mrs Aumayr has made a statement on an actual correction. - Please. Speech time: 2 minutes. The Rules of Procedure are known.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e6247	Mr President. Dear Federal Government! High house! Mr Parnigoni said that no single postal officer will be released. – Mr Parnigoni, that is wrong! This year, all post staff born in 1943 will be sent to their early retirement pension with a discount of 6 percent. That's 8,000 people! In 2000, all post staff born in 1946 will be sent to early retirement, that is to say forced retirement, and an additional 8,000 will be released. [[Abg. Koppler: Is that a discharge?]]
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e6282	Mrs Schaffenrath is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e6324	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen of the government! High house! Two weeks ago, in the German weekly newspaper "Die Zeit", I read a comment by Robert Eicht about the current situation in Germany. This article actually fits exactly the Austrian conditions – you only need to replace the word "Germany" with the word "Austria". I quote from it: "Germany" – I am now saying Austria – "is economically and socially in the most severe strain since the war. But politics is pointless. Public budgets are overburdened to stop financing social promises. In the meantime, cynical or inadvertently, the parties are driving their mikado game: Whoever moves has already lost. What had the whole year 1996 already brought?" [[Abg. Kiss: That's a hairthrowing nonsense!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In the last episode, the only really substantial movement has taken place on the seats of the ministers, with movements that we Liberals certainly do not approve of. That is why I would like to put forward two Liberal motions for resolutions before I go into the declaration of government. Unfortunately, nobody went to the chair of former Minister Scholten. The reorganisation of the Federal Ministries led to a complete fragmentation of the art and cultural agendas, which means a degradation of this area, as an independent State Secretary cannot replace an independent minister with voting rights in the Council of Ministers. The Liberals are therefore proposing the following resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] This motion for a resolution belongs to item 2 of the agenda. I would like to put another motion for a resolution on item 1 of the agenda, which we believe is absolutely necessary. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Then you should have submitted an amendment!]] We need a concept for a federal cultural foundation because the development of art and culture in Austria is crucial. It is not a question of making much of the funding and funding decisions at official level as before. We present ourselves to independent experts and therefore submit the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mr. Federal Chancellor! In the run-up to this reform of the government, I thought it was not entirely unfounded, that you also wanted to dissociate the Ministry of Women. You have not done so and in your statement of Government you have recognized the basic need for action in this area. In order to implement these problems in the field of social and economic equality of women, you have commissioned the Minister of Women. If you have said today within the framework of your statement of Government that many things have been successfully implemented, some of them perhaps not sufficiently quickly, you cannot have meant the urgent problem areas, particularly those relating to women. So far, it has been promised, guaranteed, reformed for government declarations. There have been standings which unfortunately can also be found in your government statement. However, when I recall the Federal Government's report on the reduction of the disadvantage of women, I see that, despite many other promises, there is a clear reflection of the government's ignorance, because concrete measures to improve the situation of women have not been taken. On the contrary: The situation of women has worsened considerably as a result of savings packages I and II. Ladies and gentlemen! The new Minister for Women is facing a broad field of activity: Women's discrimination is omnipresent. I very much hope that the new Minister will put all her political weight on the scale and make use of her veto right, of her right of vote in the Council of Ministers, when it comes to discrimination against women in various fields of policy. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Thank you, Mrs. Minister! I have to say, unfortunately, that your statement in the press interview of 29. It was not particularly optimistic in January 1997. They said: "I don't know if I can do better either." We need women's political accents, especially in the field of education. Austria has the second highest level of discrimination, i.e. the second highest level of training between men and women. 25 per cent of all 20 to 25-year-old women do not have a degree beyond compulsory school. In the future, especially in the fields of engineering, engineering and engineering, we have minimal final rates for women. Unfortunately, the gender trends in education are not counteracted. This leads to one-sided choice of profession, to gender segmentation of the labour market, with all the associated negative consequences for women in terms of payment, promotion opportunities and opportunities in the labour market. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Also, put emphasis on education policy when it comes to educational opportunities that serve to raise women's qualifications. Please, look more closely at the EU Social Fund with its possibilities, and use it better for women than did the former Social Minister Hums. There is also a gender segmentation of the labour market in Austria in the field of full-time and part-time work. The figures speak for themselves. There is an over-dimensional increase in the number of part-time workers, but part-time work associated with rising opportunities is almost impossible, not even in the Federal Service it is different. Especially in the area of minor employees – at least nine tenths of women affected by this – there is no social security scheme. Therefore, it is not surprising if the poverty of old age seems to be a female domain, one of the few female domains. Women are still considered to be the "reserve army of the labour market". As it corresponds to the respective needs, they can either be called in or released again. I believe that the development of the unemployment rate shows this very clearly. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! If you say in your interview that you want women's policy to go towards an employment offensive, I would like to assure you today from this point of view of our support. We are also very pleased to present our liberal proposals for a women's employment offensive. It is embarrassing for Austria that, in comparison with our employment rate in Europe, we are in the lowest third and this already under-average rate is still in decline. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Federal Chancellor! I would like to address you once again to the 600 million schilling promised by you in the field of childcare. That's where you need action! There have been unacceptable delays in this area due to ideological play between the Minister of Women and the Minister for Family Affairs. There is an obvious need for childcare facilities. I believe that now, at the end of February, the expiry date for upcoming projects is now, and I do not even dare to think about when to expect their implementation. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Just a few more thoughts: I do not necessarily want to conclude why you have addressed the new Minister for Women's Rights to the new Minister of Women, but it repeatedly urges me to address the question of your access to women's policy, since you have assigned it precisely to those matters which are largely determined by the "protection and control" behavioural component. This may be because you believe that women are responsible for protection as they are in the care of children and old people and in the nursing sector – of course without any cost replacement! – or that you believe women have a special need for protection. I would certainly like you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, to know that the mechanisms of protection which have come into existence have a counter-productive effect on women. On the current occasion, I can remind you of the ban on night work for women. How little equal treatment is actually anchored in the new Chancellor's thinking world is shown to me alone by the fact that he left out equal treatment in the focus of the Austrian tasks in the EU. This, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, was so striking that it is quite depressing for us women.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e6425	The two selected motions for resolutions have been properly put in place, are supported accordingly and are therefore under negotiation. Mr Feurstein has now spoken. Please, honourable Member. Voluntary limit of speaking time: 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e6449	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The main focus of the Government Declaration, but also today's debate on the Government Declaration, was on social issues and concerns. There is no doubt that there are no problems in social policy, but I must say one thing: In recent months, it has been possible to bring about substantial changes that we can say to ensure social security in the future. I consider this to be a very important statement on the occasion of today's declaration of government. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I do not think that this is an essential merit of the former Minister for Social Affairs, Franz Hums, of whom a substantial contribution has been made. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] In contrast to previous social ministers, he was unable to announce and enforce new benefits, but he had to propose measures for socially sound savings that will secure the good Austrian system in the future. I would like to give you some very specific examples. First: unemployment insurance. Ladies and gentlemen! It is simply wrong what honourable Members have said here in terms of unemployment insurance. Before the summer, the construction worker's leave and handling law was amended, and flexibilization provisions for the construction workers were introduced. In connection with the good construction economy, these flexibilization provisions, according to which working time can now be distributed in the construction sector, have led to the fact that at the end of 1996 the number of unemployed construction workers was 27.8 percent lower than at the end of 1995! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] This, ladies and gentlemen, is the consequences of working time flexibility, but they have not been approved by the liberals. I would like to expressly say that. Second point: It is true that in the first months of 1996, there was a further increase in the number of early retirement pensions and incapacity for work. ==References== The reform measures adopted against the votes of the liberals are effective on September 1996. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Aha!]] The result of the months of September to December 1996 shows a decrease in the number of new entrants in the early retirement pension by 22 percent and in the incapacity pension by 15 percent! [[Abg. Dr. Leiner: And the liberals have prevented this!]] Ladies and gentlemen! These are measures that will bring a recovery success of some billion schilling in pension insurance in 1997. You voted against! You voted against it because you did not realize that something has to be changed. If we had gone the way of the opposition, there would be a deficit in the next few years, a federal grant requirement in pension insurance, which would be unfinancing! [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: At the corporate tax!]] The way we went was right, and we want to continue this path, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The main concern is job security. I am very glad that the Federal Chancellor has found that no further sale may be made. In your ranks, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals, is one who is responsible for the sale of companies in Vorarlberg. It is a scandal that has happened there in the last days and weeks by the union of Kästle and HTM in my federal state, ladies and gentlemen. You have to represent this sale and this scandal with loss of jobs as well! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: The FPÖ is always to blame!]] Don't always talk about the others, but come in to yourself and change your policy, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusions of the Abg. Scheibner.]] We will continue to pursue three important concerns: Worktime flexibility to prevent unemployment and to secure jobs, less bureaucracy, therefore the introduction of the chip card, and – third point – opportunities for apprentices. These are the points that we will deal with in February. I hope that, at the end of February, we will also be able to make concrete decisions on this.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e6587	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member. They have announced a voluntary restriction on the speaking time of 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e6608	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Mr. Federal Chancellor's Climate! The government statement didn't surprise me. She didn't particularly delight me, nor was she particularly sad. A declaration of government is a declaration of government. So we obviously have to take note of them. There are some nice things inside, but much more was it not in the past and it has not now become in this declaration of government. I would like to take one point. In December we discussed a urgent question on "Poverty in Austria". At the time, I have pointed out that there has never been a statement of government in the High House or a parliamentary debate on poverty in Austria. Federal Chancellor! I already think that the issue of poverty is at least in the Declaration of Government and has been recognized as a problem, but only to mention the subject and not to talk about the causes of or the measures against poverty, that is not enough. As early as December, there were two requests from the Greens, in which we called for a poverty and wealth report to be drawn up. You have rejected this, ladies and gentlemen, here in this House. We do not like to talk about poverty, especially if we do not want to be reported on it. We also obviously do not like to talk about the wealth in this country, which there must be, otherwise the accumulation of wealth, of money and property worth 6 000 billion in that country would not be explained. We'd rather not talk about it. It is clear that we are keeping it as described by Mr Lacina, the Minister of Finance, at the time: We prefer fruit trees, but we do not want to spread about the real things, about the wealth and poverty in this country. The government is not interested either. I hope, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that you will take a different course and that you will be able to take a step further in the parliamentary treatment of poverty. I hope that this will be an issue – if not from the government side, at least from Parliament. And perhaps you take seriously the suggestion that has now come from the poverty conference, namely to produce a poverty and wealth report and not either to leave out the one – poverty – or the other – of wealth. Federal Chancellor! I would have liked you to point out the causes of poverty more clearly than it did in this statement. However, they should not only mention the causes but also suggest the consequences for policy. I'm missing everything. That is why you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, should have put something into government policy. If, in this country, an emergency aid beneficiary, whether male or female, through the savings package of the Federal Government has to take a reduction in income – this is also addressed to your address, Mr. Hums – from 11 000 S or 12 000 S to 7 800 S – and there are these cases, we have already documented such cases here – if there is a reduction in income by 2 000, 3 000 or 4000 S in this area, then poverty will result. This is a poverty problem, and you, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, have also contributed to this through your government policy! I am not talking about the other reasons for poverty, I am not talking about unemployment, I also want to blame not only the government for unemployment, but also the link between the measures you have put in relation to unemployment or not, and what we now have in Austria about problems with poverty, which must be named. This must also be done. How, Mr Bundeskanzler, do you want to explain to an emergency aid beneficiary that it was necessary to reduce their income by 3,000 or 4,000 s in the context of this savings package, while the Federal Government is obviously of the opinion that it is necessary to buy tanks by 8 billion schilling, i.e. the exact amount saved in the savings package in the social field? How do you explain this? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But above all, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Bundeskanzler: How do you want to help these people now? It was her party that made the issue of the reconciliation of work and family a central issue in the election campaign – even in the last election campaign. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, from the government parties and from the government, it was also those who have incorporated a provision into the unemployment insurance law, namely the availability provision, which, Mr Feurstein, leads to the loss of unemployment benefit and emergency aid for women with care obligations, that is to say. This is a scandal, Mr Feurstein. You won't get over that. That's your policy that you're responsible for! You know, there are women affected! You know, there are those judgments! Do something about it! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mrs. Hostasch is not in the hall now. Nevertheless, it is addressed to their address: I am not entirely of the opinion of Mrs Schmidt that she already has a puncture because she comes from the Chamber or the union. That wouldn't be what bothers me. I am disturbed by what Mrs Hostasch has done in the past as a Member of Parliament, only that what she represented in the Chamber did not agree with what she represented here in the National Council. I am interested in this. I wish Mrs Hostasch much success in managing this giant resort, although I have my problems with this giant resort, because I think that the date of merger is set at least one to two years too late. One to two years ago, ladies and gentlemen, that would have made sense. In fact, the social security system was still different from that of today's hospital financing. Now the responsibility for health care has migrated to the countries. And now the resorts are being assembled? – That doesn't make sense, that doesn't make any perspective. I mean, in this concrete context in which the merger is now taking place, it is wrong. At that time one should have talked about it, but already at the time it was the Odium that it was a giant resort, the largest resort with considerable problems, if I only look at the wealth of the social problems that have been solved! Ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to remind you of the pension problem, not the ASVG, which does not necessarily fall within the competence of Mrs Hostasch, but rather of the pension problem in general, and the fact that we still have divergent pension systems which are becoming increasingly diverse. On the one hand, there are the ASVG-pensionists who have to live by minimum rates, on the other hand, there are pension systems, such as some in the public service and the National Council, which are completely disconnected from what can be purchased at average pension here in Austria. I can't do that anymore! It is necessary to drive a clear line too! On the other hand, we have the problem of poverty in old age. It would have been necessary, therefore, to say something more in the Government statement on this subject, for example, to say that you intend to give basic protection to all of you at age, whether it was a housewife, whether it was an artist or not, from the point of view of social security, from a certain age limit, from the point of view of which society agreed and from which it accepted that someone was no longer working. Federal Chancellor! This basic guarantee can also be financed. It's possible. We've calculated a pension model. It's okay. Of course you can do it. Of course, the restriction in other pension systems means, but I think it is socially acceptable and necessary. [[Congratulations to the Greens and Members of the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: National Bank!]] What we expect from the Federal Government and the Minister for Social Affairs in particular is a clear position in the trade agreement system. In my opinion, it is not a question of the Federal Government waiting for the Constitutional Court to decide – we all, including the members of the government parties, know how it will decide – and that will somehow fix it. Detto at the health certificate fee: You've been manoeuvring yourself into something nobody understands, and even less can it be administered. I would like to speak on further comments from you, Mr Bundeskanzler. You have used a picture for your technology policy that has disturbed and irritated me enormously. You're wrong with this picture! You have spoken about the information highway that we should drive up on, and you have also spoken of the Internet users in America who are 29, male, white and wealthy. If you are talking about the Information Highway, Mr. Federal Chancellor, you must be aware that a "highway" – whether in Austria or in the USA – requires a car, a means of moving forward. "Highway", which means also only driving over long distances. Everything that lies between them remains unscathed. When you think in pictures, it is important to characterise that too. In Austria you also need a pickerl to be able to use the highway at all. In this picture, there would be a lot of stuff to explain the problems of the Information Highway. "Highway", that is, not that everyone can use it, and it doesn't mean that all of him have results to expect. Motorways are built not only to provide regions but also to transport wealth from regions. Motorways serve to overcome long distances and are not so much for the proximity, for the local supply. This is a problem we have with the image of the information society you are designing. Of course there is a great potential in this and is a lot possible for Austria, but we should also be aware of the problems of this "highway". I would like to say to the picture of the EU that you have brought, Mr Chancellor, of the great acts you want to take: I have missed the honest mention of your statement on the EU that a few years ago we decided to take care of social conditions in the EU. The old Federal Government first deleted the social chapter from its declaration for the Intergovernmental Conference. What we need, Mr Bundeskanzler, are not only beautiful words as you have sometimes found them, but also deeds. But sometimes you even miss the words to describe what you should actually do.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e6666	Mr Dr. Niederwieser is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e6687	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! High house! A brief comment on the comments made by Mr Oellinger and his criticism that the social chapter had been deleted. Dear colleague Oillinger! You know that the Austrian initiatives have been enormous from the very beginning, especially in the field of environmental and social policy. We have been very active in all the conferences and conferences on bringing in our social standards, and Federal Minister Hums has contributed a lot to this with his department. The draft directive has been the last example, that is, the directive on the payment of workers under our regulations and collective agreements, a great success for which Austria has done and achieved a great deal. It is certainly wrong to distinguish from what is actually being done, whether this word is found in the Declaration of Government or not. If in the Government Declaration all that was done and done had been mentioned, it would have lasted much longer. One goal is the broad application of modern information and communication technologies. – I would like to start with this quote from the government statement because you have stopped using the reference to the "information highway". Bill Gates writes in his book "The way forward", which is certainly not our position as a whole, that in a house all rooms should be equipped with technical equipment for participation in information technology. I am referring to a crucial problem of our future policy, to networking. Once you visit several new buildings in Austria – you can almost go wherever you want – you can see how these new buildings are equipped or prepared for the new communication technologies, and you will find deficits so that we have to say: The political commitment is there – we want it – but the practical implementation is not yet sufficient, because what is wanted is not so much a matter of politics, but is the matter of those who plan these buildings and offer these apartments, it is theirs whether the technical conditions for them are actually present in the various spaces. Very well equipped and in international comparison excellent in connection with these new technologies are the Austrian schools, the Austrian universities and the Austrian universities. They can compare with almost any other country and will hardly find one in which in principle every student has access to the Internet and to all databases, at the expense of almost, if not zero. It is important to note that Austria's universities and schools are on a very, very good path with regard to new technologies. In the field of universities and research, the government statement also mentioned the long study periods and described them as a problem to be solved. We're very close to it. The University Study Act, which will soon reach this House as a government template, serves, among other things, the goal of shortening study times, and it shows how much this government statement and what we have proposed in accordance with the Coalition Agreement are in the plan and how much we are interested in continuing to work in this field: the University Organization Act, last agreed, is already being implemented; the Higher Education Law or the Arsenal Law, which allows our research institutions to be concentrated. What is next in the field of science and research? The Government Declaration shows that the proportion of research in the field of research is too low. I would add that the federal states could become more involved. As a Tyrolean, I say that for many federal states the Styria could be an example of how technology and research policy can be supported by a federal state. Industrial research must be strengthened. Over the last few weeks, it has been said that the ÖMV – now OMV – is a company that produces many members of the government. The ÖMV is a company that researches a lot. He will probably have to look for a new explanation for his name in the future, because ÖMV is called "Austrian with responsibility", if I have that right in mind, and in the future that will mean: [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Research for politicians?]] "Austrian with Viktor Klima" if we define it a little bit. To sum up Arsenal and Seibersdorf as a powerful non-university research institution is another point. A decision on large research institutions is currently under way. It is urgent to decide in the next few months – and that will happen – whether there will be a large research facility, and if so, which one. We hope that Austria will be chosen as a location for EUROCRYST. In any case, it is important that a decision be taken on this matter. As far as research is concerned, I make a clear commitment to the fact that, in our group's view, research in biotechnology is as important as, for example, poverty research or research in the field of fascism and fascism development. All of this belongs together. We can and will not focus on purely technical matters. The prizes for outstanding research, such as the Wittgenstein Prize, are an important impulse. In this direction, we must continue to think and develop incentives. A device plan on the equipment of the research institutions is also something that will be necessary immediately. I would like to add one more point because this is something that could put Austria at risk as a scientific and research location. We urgently need to change the rules on foreigners – and I hope that we can come to a solution very quickly with our partners in the People's Party – that participants in international congresses coming to Austria will find conditions for entry as they are European standards. This is a very important concern. A new institution structure, the universities as open and modern service companies for students, graduates and external partners, an open university access – I think these are things we must try to achieve. It's a credo! I believe that this coalition agrees that the parents' wallet must not be decisive and will not be decisive in the future in terms of whether anyone can study with us or not. One of the speakers of the liberals, who is not present at the moment and, I would say, is not missing, namely, the well-known clubman or deputy or executive clubman Stadler has called this government a "transitional government". Once again, the wishful thinking hit through. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Provisional leave!]] Please read this, ladies and gentlemen, read your great sayings, the speeches you made on this pult in late autumn of 1995! [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Leaving Government!]] That's what it said: When this National Council election is over, only small sectors will be left here; at least we are the strongest, you mean, and the others will have to be satisfied with the rest. [[Further calls to the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: What is it like, after the European elections?]] That was a very thick expectation then, and you will also be able to do so with this "transitionary government" that will last for a long time. Just as you went down for the first time at the 1995 National Council election and gave you a bend for the first time, this Federal Government and this coalition will ensure that your path will continue down! [[Abg. Böhacker: 1995 1 060 000!]]
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e6792	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn. Please, honourable Member. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e6813	Mr President. High house! Federal Chancellor! I don't envy you at the seven hours you've been sitting here on the government bank, but I have to tell you: Their declaration of government was so poor that these seven hours are still a mild punishment. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Chancellor! Don't be angry when I say, That was a late sympathetic Christmas speech. With the precision of a financial controller, you have avoided all concrete statements. I appreciate this precision, you have eventually shown it in your profession in the ÖMV. They write headlines such as "opportunity of change" – I sign it – and they don't define the state of the state, nor do they. That's not how you can be measured. This is an old trick that balance sheet experts and should-be comparison experts use and I know very well. We will, however, take you to the floor and give you clear confessions and goals, Federal Chancellor! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Yes!]] They write very nice, social cohesion is not contrary to economic competitiveness. – No, Mr. Federal Chancellor! [[Federal Chancellor Mag. Climate: In some countries already!]] They should have said that it is a symbiosis, because, ultimately, social cohesion is only to be achieved with economic competitiveness and in a healthy economy. [[Federal Chancellor Mag. Climate: There is a difference!]] The OECD considers this to be different, Mr. Bundeskanzler. In its report from the last days, the OECD says: Austria is in the final analysis, growth forecasts are poor – just over 1 percent – and new debt is rising by more than 3 percent. Also there is a smart controller to help: You calculate the shadow economy, you already have a new scenario! You have a specialist at your side, the new Secretary of State, which will certainly help you. Federal Chancellor! You should have pointed out the weaknesses in our structural and economic policies. Economic Policy Comes In Your Don't go ahead! I agree you'll do something smart if you travel to Holland in the near future. This is really something very happening, Mr. Federal Chancellor! We liberals have long suggested this to you, as we have proposed to the ÖVP to travel to New Zealand, because there is much more to learn than in the Chamber of Commerce. I am pleased that your first destination is Holland, because there you can learn what a savings package should look like, how it leads to new investments and ultimately to increased competitiveness. The "Kurier" has been given the God thanks to us, and I can pass it on to you here. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It states that the public administration – there is Austria’s record holder – is in stark contrast to the entrepreneurship share in Austria; we are finally there. It states that the protected area and the public economy – there we are record holders – are in stark contrast to the number of stockholders in Austria; Austria too is finally. It also states that the lowest research and development rate in the EU has ultimately led to the migration of future technologies. That's what you're sorry about yourself in your program, in which you say we're a net exporter of technology. Sad enough, because there is the future for our youth and jobs! [[Federal Chancellor Mag. Climate: Net importer!]] A net importer! Thank you many times, thank you very much! Federal Chancellor! That you have this controller expertise and the budget cosmetics is a special concern for you, you have already shown as Minister of Finance in recent years. But now, Federal Chancellor, leadership skills are needed. That's something completely different from controller competence! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Now you don't have to announce, now you don't have to control, now you have to lead! For this purpose, public places as in your government statement will not be sufficient. Now we need concrete measures! They're talking about opening up in the tele area: Telecommunications and everything related to it. Please, how do you imagine that? In proporzt TV or in national Telekom? Privatize these two areas! Open what They've been announcing for years and announced again today! These would be concrete measures, which you have owe us. But in the case of postal debt of over 100 billion schilling will be You - I am right in giving you - still need the highest telephone charges in Europe in order to cover these deficits. Your new fee reform will show exactly that. As Minister of Transport, you would have had the opportunity to change a lot. But you haven't even coordinated the train bus and the mailbox to save the hundreds of millions who are really baffled there. You did not do this as Minister of Transport, but now might be time to take the appropriate measures. In the social security system They always paid in money, and they lamented it, but structural reforms did not require you. You could have shown structural policy everywhere. For the load package named "Sparpaket" you have developed a wonderful marketing story and thus finally presented your marketing genius, but the numbers you will get, Mr. Bundeskanzler. The numbers in this savings package, which is actually a pure load package, will get you! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] For employment policy and economic policy, you have no room for manoeuvre in the budget. What are you doing in this situation? – Shifting debts, disbursing debts. Very original, I have to tell you! You may have looked away from France or elsewhere, but this is not original. Structural changes look different, Mr. Federal Chancellor! As Minister of Finance, you would have had the opportunity to revive the capital market. Now that the train has left and the euro is coming, you're going to be hard on yourself. Perhaps you will bring the very valuable bank-austria shares to the recovery of the capital market. Hopefully it's better than last time in America. Federal Chancellor! Please don't blame me! I was the one who said that a government consisting of climate, Schlögl and Co was certainly better for this country than those we had. Do me the favor: Blaming You don't, you also do certain things, it would also be in my own interest! Unravel the additional wage costs, how this happens in Holland! Take out the ineffective wage components! Privateize not only when you need money, but privatize to liberalize the market in order to create investments and jobs! Federal Chancellor! I would also like to ask you: Work with the socially weak and poor more than with savings packages and more than with the exclusion of the opposition, because this also costs you valuable time! A last personal request to you: Federal Chancellor! The reputation of politicians is not exactly the best. Be so good, take care of your own pension yourself, so that it is not like your predecessor is 5.8 million schilling.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e6926	Mrs Rauch-Kallat is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Please, ladies and gentlemen. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e6948	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! The Austrian People's Party is very pleased that the new German government and today's declaration of government can now begin the hard work to implement the government agreement within the coalition government. I am also very glad, Mr Chancellor, that you have announced a special priority in women's work in your Government statement, and I will allow myself to devote this short time exclusively to this focus, because there is enough to do in this area. This begins with the demand for equal pay for equal work and reaches to better career and career opportunities for women and to a better compatibility of family and work. For a reasonable, efficient and serious women's policy, Federal Chancellor, you will always have the Austrian People's Party on your side. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] First of all, let me focus briefly on those areas which the law can only regulate, which are legally defined in the law of marriage: the sharing of income or income and family work. The Austrian People's Party acknowledges this spirit of partnership, which was established in the matrimonial law in 1978. It also acknowledges that both partners in a family and children take on their share of shared family work. However, we reject – and we have already held this several times – an additional legal anchoring of housework in family law, because we believe that politics, the state should provide the framework conditions, but that it does not interfere in all private matters of two spouses, except it is a danger in delay, for example in the case of violence in the family. We believe that the State also has an obligation to protect children and women, in particular. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What is a very special concern for us is to create equal treatment, equal opportunities for women in working life. This is one of the most pressing problems of the uneven wage for equivalent work, an area which unfortunately has not improved over the last 20 years – quite the contrary: The income sheath has not become smaller, but larger. I believe that this problem must be addressed, above all, by a complete re-evaluation of the work, as has already been tried in other countries, for example in Switzerland, by a special system. I believe that it is very necessary that this Federal Government – and this is certainly an urgent task for women's ministers and for trade unions – to deal with these issues and that new criteria for the evaluation of work can be taken into account, especially in terms of organizational talent and creativity, rather than just strength and strength, as has been and has been the case so far. Another point, of course, is also the comprehensive information of girls and young women on career choice and vocational orientation. We must be able to achieve greater diversity from the few professions currently choosing women, but above all also to encourage women to focus more on future-oriented professions. A very important point is the promotion of women, especially in the case of the rise of women in the various hierarchies. In doing so, the public hand – the federal government, the countries – can go ahead with a good example. However, we must also be able to encourage private companies, through appropriate incentives, to develop appropriate women's promotion plans and, above all, those women and men who wish to re-enter their working life after a child's break, to offer appropriate programmes to facilitate this re-entry and also to open career opportunities. A very important point, of course, is the compatibility of family and profession. The flexibility of working time is an essential point, not only of working day, week and month, but above all of working hours. It must be possible for mothers and fathers to leave beyond a certain period of time and to devote themselves entirely to family work without getting into a difficult or life-threatening situation. It is also important, in the small area, to presuppose the fall of poverty. One important point, of course, is the provision of childcare measures and the possibility of providing a variety of childcare services across the board and flexibly so as to provide women in new fields of work with other working hours, or, for example, nurses. There would be a lot of things to say, but I have committed myself to a voluntary time limit. But what is very important to us from the Austrian People's Party, ladies and gentlemen, is that women and men must be given freedom of choice, whether they are fully devoted to the profession or whether they want to get out of work for some time in order to be able to devote themselves fully to family work. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] These women and men must not become a disadvantage, and all necessary measures must be taken to ensure that this freedom of choice is guaranteed.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e7029	Mr Dr Kier is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). – Mr deputies, your club has a remaining speaking time of 16 minutes. Do you want another restriction? - All right, five minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e7050	Mr President. Gentlemen of the Federal Government! – Ladies are currently not present. - High house! This remark may not be insignificant, because the under-proportional representation of female government members is relatively high in the statistical probability that only men are temporarily sitting on the government bank. That was a marginal remark on the question of women. I would now like to turn to the most important points in the near future, so that I do not hide here as social spokesperson of my group. I have heard some of the positive statements made by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany – I am aware that the Federal Chancellor's passive statements – perhaps something different from him, but at least the subject areas were the same. One of these was mobility. He has called for mobility, mobility in general – I think, probably also from the employee – but he has not said what that means. He has not said that the housing problem is unsolved that we do not have a mobile home market corresponding to a mobile labour market, using the word "market" to represent that I mean open structures. However, we do not have open structures in the housing area, we also have a housing subscribing, and there are totally symmetrical rental conditions and a complete rigidity. If you demand mobility against such a background, you need to explain to people how this is viable for them and, above all, harmonious with their incomes. That's missing, for example. I am therefore saying: The many headlines that we have heard require first of all networking, second of deepening and third of filling with human warmth, because I missed a little. [[Accompaniment at the Liberal Forum]] Now it may well be that if one has the state-bearing function of the Federal Chancellor and gives a general declaration of government, it does not harmonize well with human warmth. But the issues that I am concerned with are asking for such a thing. I therefore believe that if flexibility is required without saying how it should be viable, it is also something that is exhausted only in the empty formula "balancing between workers and employers". I can only say: No, no, no, no, But how and where? This debate will be to be held. But since the new Federal Minister for Labour and Social Affairs and Health is not present on the Government Bank, I think we will hold this debate at a later date and elsewhere. Finally, I would like to say: We will not create new forms of work without decoupling social security from work in the linear state as we now have it. For if we want to make new forms of work, such as flexibility and part-time living, we need to build a social policy flank. We cannot put people into any work that is not enough to finance the food. We will have to introduce double systems, such as Switzerland has done this with the part-time work model. We have tabled such a request. We will have to get rid of the idea that only the one who has already worked has a social claim. I know that this is going to be expensive and that we need great effort, but I mean, it has to be said, because all the savings packages in this world only have a meaning if, as a result, we are really not only able, but also willing to make policies for the people. If we have the power to do so, we have to do it too, because everything else would mean cutting the horse from the wrong side. One of the social policy milestones led by Mr. Vice-Chancellor is 16 billion more for the families – but with the casting can! – better payroll conditions than elsewhere – that there is indeed much better elsewhere, more flexible, however, he has not mentioned – and the care benefits, which are known to have just been found among lawn mowers. Final rate: The integration package appears once in your government statement, Mr. Bundeskanzler, but in connection with the fight against crime – and that really bothered me. If you find no other place for this problem than combating crime, this is not a good forecast for fundamental rights and human rights and humanity. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e7114	Mrs Tegischer is now on the floor. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e7135	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the bench! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! As a political newcomer, I was drawn to this House about a year ago, with full expectation and expectation, and about half a year ago I was entrusted with the role of a youth speaker. Now, if I let Revue happen this year, I must honestly admit that I sometimes had the need to give up, to say: Guys, it's going to be too much for me, I'm going home to East Tyrol, I'm working as a social worker, I'm dedicating my hobbies, and I'm fine. But then there were time and again moments, encounters and events that kept me from this step. I have realized that not all people can be fair, and I have realized that we cannot implement all the ideas, ideas and dreams in a short time. Many people, especially young people, are afraid – and this has already been mentioned several times today – of overneath, fear of unemployment, fear of globalisation, fear of de-olidarization, social isolation. I could continue this list of fears at any time. Many of these people are now trying to alleviate these fears by seeing the or the trigger for their dissatisfying state – more or less entitled – in us politicians and politicians. All the more highly esteemed they should be to those people and politicians who represent clear positions, make courageous decisions and have human greatness, give up top positions to leave others. All I have talked to lately share my respect for Chancellor Vranitzky, who has left his position at the head of our government and its party chair 11 days ago to his successor, the current Chancellor Viktor Klima. Ladies and gentlemen! I admit quite openly and honestly that I am pleased that, despite its other life-planning, Viktor Klima has finally opted for the government's highest office. I know that many share this joy with me. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I consider myself to be claiming that I have a marked degree of human feeling from my personality, because of my training and because of my work as a social worker – these days it is rather emotional intelligence – so I allow myself to describe the person Viktor Klima in the following way, to reveal my very personal impression of him as a person, because the human qualities and abilities give insight into how a person will exercise a leadership position. At the person Viktor Klima I appreciate, admire and respect his determination, his straightness, his determination and his inexhaustible energy and patience. I appreciate his objectivity and openness to necessary changes and reforms. He loves simple people, he is friendly, he can listen, and he listens to people, regardless of their social position, their attitude, or their social belonging. And – I think some in this House can learn something from it – he takes his critics seriously. He respects them, deals with their opinions and views objectively, without personally attacking or insulting them. I am confident that our new Chancellor will support me as a youth spokesperson in my efforts for the interests of young people. I know that he is particularly concerned about the problems, concerns, concerns and fears of the young people of our country. I feel alone by his way of acting that he does not appreciate adapted and passive jasagers, but self-thinking, active critical young people who are self-confident and confident to take part in the design of our society in the area of their own possibilities. I trust him that he will support and promote all measures and reforms – such as financial support from childcare institutions, an educational system that allows personal development, communication and willingness to be flexible, extension of the apprenticeship offer, legal measures against violence in the family, in order to name just a few examples. He also understands the need for prevention in many areas, so that young people in our country are prevented from falling in a renunciation of addiction or from joining a socially despicable pseudoreligious group or otherwise being pushed to the edge of society or even to fall through the rust of society. For Chancellor climate, the constant changes in our society are a challenge and an opportunity in which, however, man is always at the heart of his political activities, our activities. I am glad that I did not give up last year and I am proud to work as a member of the Social Democratic Party under its chairmanship. As a Member of Parliament who wants to take part in the future of our country and in particular the future of the young people of our country, I am very much looking forward to cooperation. Leave You are closing me today from a given occasion with a term that has always played a central role in my life: Friendship! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e7214	Mrs Haidlmayr has now been reported to speak. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e7235	Mr President. Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! The declaration of government, which our new Chancellor, Mr Kanzler Klima, today, in which he finally thanked the people for carrying the savings package and that there were no major demonstrations and no major defences against this savings package in Austria, has almost struck me. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] In the event that there is someone sitting in the ranks who does not yet know what the impact of the savings package on those concerned, I would like to read a very recent letter, which I received only yesterday from a seriously disabled 23 year old man, and recall what it means to live as a minority, as a disabled person with this savings package. – I will now read to you from the above letter: I've been suffering from muscle wound since I was born and I'm a wheelchair driver. Due to the tireless use of my parents and the care in my parents' home, I was able to successfully complete folk school, primary school and commercial academy. Although the disability is already very advanced, I am fully alive. I've been working as a computer manager and controller for three and a half years now. No mobile service and no Disability home could ever do what my family does for my care. I need a round-the-clock care, because my disability is already very advanced. My care needs were determined by the family doctor in 1992. My mother cares for me from morning to evening, and at night I must be turned four to six times. Since my disability is already very advanced, I applied for invalidity pension in March 1996. As a result, I was amazed when I received the notice from the competent pension insurance institution in November, in which I now receive 374,40 S pension. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: This is social policy!]] [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: This is social balance!]] Four days later another notification came, and he made my life almost impossible for me. In this notice, it reads: Dear Mr Sowieso! Due to the re-establishment We inform you that your care needs have been reduced and you are no longer classified in Level 6 of the care allowance, but only in Level 5. At the time when this notice reached me, I was in one of the hospitals in Vienna, this gentleman continues to write. I had severe paralysis again, exhaustion conditions, and my language was almost gone. But I have less need for care now, although it is proven that my care needs have increased accordingly and that I am at constant risk of having conditions of paralysis and exhaustion that make it impossible for me to work in the future. – As far as the letter of this severely disabled young man is concerned. Due to the reduction of the care allowance and therefore because this young man now receives the invalidity pension, he has said and writes a monthly loss of 3 840.60 p. 374 S and 40 sizes he receives pension, and around 4 215 S the care allowance was reduced to him. That is to say, this young man must get around 3,840 p.m. and 60 sizes a month less. The year is expected to be 46 000 p. Ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: But this is not related to the savings package! That must be clarified!]] We thanked the people today for having worked so great in the savings package and said that they are all quite satisfied anyway and that it is actually not as bad as everyone said in the past. . So if this letter is not proof of what is bad in the social field, in the disability sector through the new savings package, then I do not know how it can be documented even better to you. The Federal Chancellor has also said today that it is not so bad in the area of unemployment and that the unemployment rate is said to be more than 4 per cent. But he has not said that the unemployment rate has already exceeded the 40 percent limit and that thousands of disabled people have not even been reported as unemployed because they are not even recognized by the labour market as unemployed. The Government Declaration also states that there must continue to be savings in the field of relief. Ladies and gentlemen! Where do you want to take something away from us? It's just not going anymore! Ten years ago, disabled people, when they needed a hearing aid, had no self - control. Today, self-retaining is 20 000 S! You have to tell me how this is to be financed by someone who is disabled: a 20 000 s self-retaining with a single hearing aid! Ladies and gentlemen! They not only force people with disabilities to give up listening, but in general to live without aid, without providing mobility, leading to their participation in daily life becoming equal to zero. Education has also been addressed today, and it has been said that not all great things have been done in general for disabled people. For disabled people, there has been an essential step back, as the last school organisation law Novelle is no progress towards integration of disabled people. You have stated in this law that now at least five disabled children must be in one class in order to enable integration. If it is less, the rest of the disabled children also come to the special school. I can't win anything positive either by combining health and social matters. The former Minister of Social Affairs, Mr Hums, said that he would no longer want to lead this place in the future, because it is simply too big and too much. But now it is supposed to be possible without further delay to bring two giant resorts, the health resort and the social resort, to a single administration. I emphasize the term "administrative" because there will be nothing more to do in this place, but it will be a purely administrative place – without any possibility of changing something. Edge topics, such as bioethics, will probably not be mentioned at all, although it poses a personal threat to many people. For this purpose, the health certificate fees have been introduced, and in the meantime everyone knows that the planned revenue of 600 million schilling will not be received anyway. On the contrary: The administrative burden will be greater than the additional revenue. But perhaps we could get in a little more somewhere, maybe there's even more self-retaining, maybe there will be even more reclassifications in the future in the care money, and perhaps people will receive less than 374 S and 40 grand in pension. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: They make this smooth!]] If I allow the current government statement to happen Revue and think about the future, it makes me afraid, personally afraid, because I no longer know how to continue for the many old disabled and low-income people in the future. They hardly have any more means of securing life, and they no longer have the opportunity to live self-determinedly or even to participate in society. [[Congratulations on the Greens as well as on Members of the Liberals.]] They no longer even have the opportunity to afford themselves the most necessary – of luxury or of normal things each of us has to not talk at all. I have great concerns and wish that my fears and the fears of the disabled do not come true. And I wish that the 1998 and 1999 budgets will no longer impose any additional burden, because the current ones will no longer be able to bear. Rather, it is necessary to encourage all those people who have paid so much for the last savings package that they have lost every interest and ideology, and to give them social benefits with which they can live or survive. This is no longer possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e7326	The next speaker is Mr Kröll. – Voluntary speaking time: 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e7348	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Members of the Federal Government! High house! Today's government statement by Chancellor Mag. Climate for the Climate/Schüssel Cabinet also referred to the last government statement by Federal Chancellor Vranitzky in general and to the financial compensation between the federal government, countries and municipalities in particular. I can remind you that this financial compensation – fixed in the pact of 22. February 1996, then decided this year in the House, sets out some essential things: the extension to four years until including 2000, the uniform distribution key from 1. In 1998, for a number of investments, such as income tax, wage tax, Kest I and corporate tax, a regulation of the surplus income as a result of the Structural Adjustment Act, the contribution benefit also deducted the municipalities for fiscal consolidation, capital income tax II, which also preserves the municipal key of 20 percent – a very important institution and achievement for the municipalities – as well as a change in the health field by which an uncost-neutral implementation of the unfair tax exemption in the health and welfare field from 1. In January 1997, it was possible to introduce EU tax harmonisation, as well as the 5 % participation for public transport communities in the field of natural gas and electricity taxation. Furthermore, the privatisation of the post, the corresponding proportions of work wages, in relation to local tax, will result in revenue for the municipalities of around 500 million schilling. In addition, the KRAZAF was re-regulated. And, as a result of the settlement water management scheme, from 1997 onwards, there will be a need-based support, which will greatly benefit rural areas. This is also an important achievement of the People's Party. Childcare facilities have already been pointed out and further important measures have been taken to extend these facilities and to bear the costs involved. High house! The 2 350 municipalities, villages, markets and cities with their approximately 78 000 employees without Vienna or 136 000 employees with Vienna as a country and city are the foundation of our state. Therefore, financial compensation is of great importance not only in terms of financial policy, but also in terms of democratic development and the discussion among citizens. There is the citizen of politics and politics closest to man. The municipalities are the largest public investor, which is of particular importance for labour and value added. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The communities, however, are especially home to our citizens. The entire network, regulated in financial compensation, is a necessary basis for the self-government community. But the community is also the place where the life and home feeling is most pronounced, where young and old meet together and where one enjoys culture, sports – for example tomorrow at home a world cup race in the evening – and leisure time. You live there, you live and you work. Therefore, the major tasks and challenges can only be solved in partnership between municipalities, cities on the one hand and the countries and the federal government on the other. The financial compensation and the consultation mechanism have a central position, particularly in terms of financial compensation. As one of these 2 350 Austrian mayors, I therefore demand that the financial compensation be taken up and decided by the Federal Government by the year 2000 and that, in the event of any structural changes, some have already been addressed by the President Schwarzenbergerer, for example, those relating to the graduated population keys or other values, of course, take due account of the communities, especially the small and medium-sized communities. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am sure that the People's Party with Wolfgang Schüssel as the mayor party will be the other stable partners for the communities, especially the smaller and medium-sized cities, and I expect that the Federal Chancellor climate and the Minister of Finance Edlinger will take due account of the wishes of the municipalities, including with a view to a good partnership between communities, countries and the federal government, because together we are Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e7408	Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e7429	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The Federal Chancellor's declaration of government today has really given the fatal impression that this is a presentation by a mass administrator to the Committee on Credentials, who cannot provide his accounts because there is no wealth. The winery voice of the Federal Chancellor has also underlined this catastrophic situation. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In the meantime, the euphoria that was tried to convey has already been lost, especially because the experts have shown how badly it is really ordered around all areas. Mrs Tegischer of the Socialist Party – she is a social worker – said a few minutes ago that she wanted to throw everything herself, because nothing goes on. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We really have to do with a bankrupt company. [[Objection to the ÖVP.]] This does not alter the fact that the budget deficit has now been covered more by a biter. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In fact, only the re-indebtedness has fallen a little while the old debt has not changed at all. If we look at how we have been managed in recent years, we have to say that this socialist coalition government has really been driven from one pan to another and has made one bock's jump after another and that it has actually worked very little reasonable. If you think about the toll pickerl, if you think that more than 1,000 s per month has been promised in the case of an EU accession and this promise has not been kept, if you think about what a Murks has been fabricated with the contract of work, if you think about it – Mrs Haidlmayr has done it – as in the case of the socially weak, that the allowance for the disabled has been reduced to 500 s, when you think about what happened in connection with the CA deal, when you think of the money waste action of the former Minister Konrad "half-half-half" – it is really up to every citizen. I would like to say to you: We liberals would be generous, we would also look for some mistake or other, but the people are no longer willing to check on you for some mistake, because quite simply too much has happened! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is indeed in shame that all the miscarriage of the government has gone out on the back of the citizens, and now we have the situation that an increasing proportion of the population has been pushed to the border of poverty, that there is an increasing number of unemployed people in Austria who no longer know how to cope with their situation. Today, the Federal Chancellor has talked about many challenges, about targeting, about the challenges at the beginning of the new millennium, and about the situation as if this government were going to overcome these challenges. But if I look at this new government, I really don't think that this government can only give any impetus to meeting these challenges. It is the former Minister of the Interior One remains in this cabinet. He left a shredded pile in the Ministry of the Interior. He's run a simple announcement policy. He has done nothing at all of what would have been urgent. I cannot imagine that Mrs Hostasch will give the important impetus to pension reform or to combating unemployment. The new Minister of the Interior has already spoiled himself from the outset with the executive officials, because through the help of the savings package he has handled the staff restrictions so strictly that in reality the executive is no longer able to work at all. One guard room after another is closed, one army post after another is abolished, and there is nothing more working – border security is not and internal security is not. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We liberals do not behave like Mr Khol, namely that we swallow and cry. We need the swallowing and crying not to our identification, but quite the contrary: We want to meet the challenges, we want to act! We will also measure this government by whether it is willing to act – in the interests of Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e7518	The next speaker is Mr Seidinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e7539	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! In his government statement, German Chancellor Klima wrote down and said – I quote literally –: "We know what the older generation has done to build our social state. We need to secure a quality. However, ensuring quality also means modernising, and important reforms to increase the actual retirement age have already been decided and lead to a discharge of the pension system. It is important to convey stability to pensioners, and also to the young people who finance the system today, concrete models must give confidence in the future's age assurance." I believe that these statements are of importance to us, especially to us older ones – and as spokesperson of such a generation I am in front of you. It is in the title of the Declaration of Government "The opportunities of change benefit," and I believe that our expectation is very great. The government will also be measured by its attitude towards the older generation and its achievements for it. Let us remember that more than 1.6 million Austrians are over 60 years old. That's a quarter of the electorate. In 25 years every fourth Austrian citizen will be over 60 years old and in 50 years every third. This is a major challenge for the elderly, a policy that is being made for a group which is particularly strongly organized. The degree of organisation of the older generation is 38 to 50 percent. It increasingly participates in public life; it has more interest in political issues, wishes for more participation and public participation, since in the political system it often remains only a marginal role for them. The seniors – which they fear – are usually only relevant shortly before election dates. The elderly, perceived as pensioners or pensioners or other social state clients, oppose this attitude. In the labour market, the identity is defined by work, but in retirement due to job loss is marginalised. The differences within the group of older people are increasingly compacting. There is a long phase of pension, more income, higher education, better health of the new old. It is – and this is also noted – the first generation with experiences of democracy and social state. The political attitudes are different. There are prejudices against the elderly that they are conservative. Existing settings are deepening. The classification of the parties into progressive and conservative has now become partly very problematic. But the distribution struggle for life opportunities, options, decision-making spaces and scarce resources leads to a politicization of age. In other countries, we are dealing with other appearances. There are lobby organizations in the USA, such as the ARP, the Association of Retired Persons, in Italy there are pension unions, in Denmark, in the UK and in the Netherlands there are own parties or groups within the parties. In Austria, we have seen an increase in institutionalized participation bodies, for example the Federal Advisory Councils with advisory and expert functions in legislative projects, and I would like to talk to them later. What kind of participation is desired? Which topics are relevant for seniors? – Policy must be of general interest to the elderly and to the structural change of this generation, that there are many so-called young people. As far as the political co-determination at the federal level is concerned, the Pensionist Association and the Pensioners' Association have for years been of the opinion that unity and joint action are useful. This has been the case since 1992. In 1994 a Federal Advisory Council on Federal Chancellor's Regulation was set up. Under the chairmanship of the Federal Chancellor, representatives of the Ministries, Countries, Cities and Municipalities appointed by the Federal Chancellor three to four times a year meet with the so-called Senior Curia, consisting of a total of 35 persons, of which 19 are representatives of senior organizations. The participation in the social security bodies – for more than 20 years a requirement of the senior organisation – was made in the 52nd century. ASVG-Novelle realized: The Advisory Boards of the Senior Organizations are set up. We welcomed this at the time, but we only considered it a first step, because they only have a consultative character. We call for more participation and also for an active voting right in these bodies. I am convinced that we will have in the Federal Minister for Labour, Social Affairs and Health, Eleonore Hostasch, a advocate and a co-helper in these areas. What topics do the elders want to share? – Some examples: financial security in old age, older unemployed, problem of the transition to pension, public age image in the media, stationary old age aid, outpatient social services, transport policy, leisure and association activities, family and social relations, and recurring topics relating to women or the generation conflict. This is a variety of things that will present a challenge to the welfare state and will develop them from the social state to the welfare society. In the last 50 years, the development of the social state has been based on various premises that are no longer valid in that sense, as was the case 50 years ago. We have not always been spared from crises of the social state, whether political, economic or social; the latter are least perceived. Again and again the question arises: How can we convert unemployment, rather than managing it, into socially meaningful and necessary activities? Why do I talk about unemployment and employment when I talk about the older generation? – Only employment secures us the welfare state, because where there is more work, there is also more security in the state, there is the future for the older generation. The question often arises: Does this older generation, now in retirement, also take up retirement from the social state? - Please don't! The generation agreement is required, solidarity is renewed. This must be a commitment to social policy. Social policy must not fall under budgetary policy, otherwise it would be a bad job for the older generation. I mean, if we make this confession, then we also have to talk about the credibility, confidence in the government, to the politicians, a security that includes everything. In other words, the government, which has now begun, must show prospects and must not operate only with experiments. In the pension area in particular, there are a number of things that we do not want. We older generation want to take part, we want to share responsibility, we want a federal senior law, a law in which the rights of older people are established, in which they are formulated in the sense that we can say: We can go into a good common future in Austria! - Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e7617	The next speaker is Mrs Klara Motter. 12 minutes speaking time was desired. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e7642	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Seidinger, it is rare that there is talk here in the House about seniority policy. Thank you for that. Perhaps it is an age phenomenon that I feel it this way, but I think that one should talk a lot more often here in the House about seniority policy. I would like to join your words and hope for the future. Ladies and gentlemen! The combination of the Ministry of Health with the social resort is a fact that we can live with liberals. It is undoubtedly an improvement in the situation so far. In the future, there will be no longer any excuses for failure to comply with laws, such as when social insurance companies oppose necessary health improvements. However, although we are already speaking out today, there must not be a Quasie indifference of the health tasks to an already inflated social ministry. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I know Mrs. Hostasch – unfortunately she is not here now, I would have liked to say it myself – as an experienced and competent social politician. However, whether you are in medical care I do not want to assess and assess the area with sufficient experience that it needs in the forthcoming health reforms. I very much hope that Mrs Minister – in the interests of patients and medical staff – will not allow health policy to disappear from the agenda through integration or, in the worst case, by subordination in the Social Ministry. There must be no depreciation of health policy, and we will not allow it. The reactions of the last few days, including from the Ministry of Health itself, show that we are not alone with our demands. It will now be up to the Minister for Health to eliminate the fears of devaluing health care. What we need after an approach to a reform, such as the performance-oriented billing of hospitals, are real approaches to improvements throughout health care. The focus is on the entire extramural area, where comprehensive improvements are pending. We need, for example, a group practice law soon to be prevented by the Social Ministry and not by the Ministry of Health. It is precisely through the adoption of the Law on Performance-oriented Hospital Financing that it is to be feared that there will be blatant bottlenecks in the supply outside the hospitals. Furthermore, the care and care service has to be expanded – in order to mention only two concerns. The Minister is now required, and we hope for her commitment to health policy. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] If I can believe the statements of the Federal Chancellor on health policy in today's government statement – he has promised his support; there were very good words – these necessary measures can actually be implemented. I should also like to offer our cooperation, because it must be in all interest to bring to an end the reforms that have been started. Finally, I would like to say that I wish that the employees of the former health resort can bring their creativity and also their linguistic skills to avoid the creation of incomprehensible legislative texts as a sustainable contribution to the new partnership.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e7715	Mrs Rosemarie Bauer.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e7739	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr. Federal Minister One! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In today's debate a great deal has been said about the future, including the fight against poverty, but there has also been a review of all the work done in recent years, and it is therefore very tempting for me – after the presentation of Mrs Pablo, how sad the situation in Austria would be, and, in the opinion that the state's declaration of bankruptcy would call it – to recall some of the cornerstones of our political work. First of all, the successful tax reform, which has brought a great deal not only to family owners but also to women, would also be the extension of the karenz age, the introduction of the care allowance in particular, which is a valuable measure to support the disabled, the billing of child rearing times into the pension, the multi-children's allowance, in other words a whole range of measures. However, the Austrian People's Party still has an essential wish for the future. We propose that more be done in the next tax reform for families. Justice and equal opportunities were the key elements that have fallen here today. We from the Austrian People's Party consider it unfair that families with children or a family holder or two who are raising children and thus partly safeguarding the future of this country, are actually not, or are, insufficiently taken into account in the tax field, as the current amounts of deposits show. That is why we want to do something – and I believe it is a basic need – for families, we want to secure and strengthen their financial strength. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Families have not deserved to be the recipient of the state's alms. We know that we start the transfer services on the ceiling of the possible. The injustice lies in the fact that families who have many or more children, and thus actually do a lot to ensure the future of the state and of many or several pensioners, slide into poverty. It is quite possible to talk about poverty in which these families become involved during the period of education and training of their children. They have to give up a lot in their lives, and at the end of the day they are very little provided for themselves, especially for women who have been born many children and therefore have to give up their work, because they do not bring together the necessary years for a pension and do not have a secure evening of life. To do something about it is, I believe, something very important. Mr Schwamlein! You are right if you think that the billing of child rearing times would be very helpful, but I think you have to take another step. For example, as long as child rearing times are only high in retirement, the ASVG-pension requires that you have 16 years of insurance to regulate child rearing. Ladies and gentlemen! We know that there are many poor people, and we do not want to do so, and a society of services and a social society like ours cannot be prevented from increasing poverty. But poverty is not comprehensive, but there are causes of poverty, and these are fights. We know that unemployment is one of these causes. However, poverty risks are also those people who are dedicated to child rearing, which many children have, to a particular extent, single-parents, single-parents. These need most of our support. The principle of equality in the Federal Constitution calls for adequate consideration of maintenance costs within the framework of the principle of performance. We have drawn up a model in our party which Mr Bartenstein, gratefully, has also presented here, which, as I think, could find a very broad consensus. It is also one of our demands that individual taxation be maintained. But the family situation should also be taken into account, in the form of deposits, the basic guarantee of the minimum family members' existence. The resulting amount will eventually be paid together with the family aid. That certainly strengthens the self-confidence of these families, and that is what we want. I say it again: We are also pleased that individual taxation could be maintained, because the effect of another system would probably be that this would not be fair and would, above all, disadvantage the working women. We didn't want to go that way. Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speakers were also speaking about the elderly, who really represent an essential population group. The Federal Chancellor mentioned earlier that he wanted to have a happy youth. I think that includes childhood. We also want to have happy children. We do not want children of multiple families to be disadvantaged. We need equal opportunities, equal opportunities, then we will approach our goal, namely a happy youth and happy Austrians. The best investment in our future – we all know – is our children!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e7800	The next speaker is Mr Wabl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e7821	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Chancellor has tied us today with a very, very long speech. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Have fun!]] The Members are bound by very strict speaking times. I'll only stay nine minutes. That is why I shall, at the outset, bring in the two Green motions for resolutions so that I can no longer be able to do so later on due to the lack of time. [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! The debate by Mr Vice-Chancellor in connection with the German army would actually require a little longer to deal with the new concept of our Vice-Chancellor. The ÖVP has now discovered that it is a Christian-Democratic party, which is to be found again and again, and must always repeat the word "Christ" so that the lost terrain can be regained in those areas where it has lost, namely in foreign policy, employment policy and social policy. I understand the 8. December was only a challenge to the strange, very materialistic policy of the ÖVP. It is strange that the Vice-Chairman is always able to present NATO as a peace group, as a peace organization, and that he actually means that this House will be so aware of it. Unfortunately, Mr Schieder is not there, he would certainly be taking a completely different view. I know, the addresses are usually not there. Unfortunately, Minister Fassleven is not here either. There is only more of the Minister of Culture, namely the Minister of Culture, in the sense that he really serves the cultural matter very much, because at the beginning of his career he has difficulties with the terms and with the courage to speak clear words here. But a few more sentences on the statements of Vice-Chancellor bowl. He said we needed a credible federal army and the defense budget was ridiculous. – It should look at the budgets of the countries in the immediate vicinity of Austria, which are much lower. As examples, I mention only Norway, Portugal, Hungary and Ireland. These are all states in Europe, ladies and gentlemen, which spend much less on the German army. If the Deputy Chancellor thinks he's doing something for peace as a Christian Democrat, and believes he can account for 8.5 billion schilling for tank purchases, I wonder why he won't be red, the black Mr. Vice-Chancellor. And I wonder why such people constantly strive for Christian culture and speak here in all breadth and beauty of past times. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Maitz.]] Mr. Klubobmann Khol! That's just sad. If this were to happen to me at a referendum or in a parliament of a former People's Democracy, that is to say that the army consists of loud peacekeeping forces, that the army is a peace army and a peace movement that does everything to benefit peace and protect it, then I would still understand. But if a politician of a democracy like Austria tries to deal with such concepts, I think this is unacceptable and bitter. Ladies and gentlemen! You will have to find clarity on this question. The Federal Chancellor will also not be able to constantly enslave himself on this issue, and I would have liked him to say at least a clear sentence on a specific subject. I think he has tried to bring in a few personal, human notes here. Unfortunately, this has failed a little through the length. This should not prevent us from yet believing in the fact that the Federal Chancellor is still doing something about it. Only: My hope has not increased with today's day. Now to you, Mr. State Secretary, Dr. Wittmann, because you're sitting here. I have a great surprise on the radio Your first interview was heard when you were asked what you thought by Mr Peymann. They didn't even have the courage to say a sentence about it. I understand that the "Kronen-Zeitung" is the "Kronen-Zeitung" (Kronen-Zeitung) and an ugly medium, which always wants to disassemble those people, those state secretaries and ministers who say a clear word about cultural policy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grabner.]] I have only a moment's regret that Mr Scholten is no longer sitting here, because that would not have happened to him. But if you could not say a clear sentence to Mr Peymann, perhaps you could have said something about folk music. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] You probably think you can only say something to the Pink Floyd group. Volksmusik is an important part of our culture and serves the well-being of the Austrian population – even if it does not belong to my favorite music. [[Abg. Leikam: Nothing against the Nuclear Buam!]] Mr Peymann is also part of our culture, but you could have said something, even if you do not think that the day has already come when the next decisions for the next Burgtheater director will be taken. Mr State Secretary! Of course, you have a fair chance to be spared in the first days. Only: You should not be too careful in a clear opinion, and you should try not to take immediately the path of the vice-chandant Schüssel or the path of the non-sager on other ministerial banks. Ladies and gentlemen! We expect a clear and clear discussion to be held in this House in connection with security policy. If there is a majority for one way or another, then this should be done in a democracy. What we find unbearable, however, is that you stand alone in the notions, swirl around the concepts and try only to find a proper language system so that the Austrian people, the citizens, are calmed down. The comment on EU accession was exactly that the former Chancellor Vranckky was praised for having led social democracy, although within these great resistances, to the EU that he had done so very carefully. Ladies and gentlemen! That may be a merit. Only: The question of NATO accession is quite another. The question of NATO accession needs clearer words than those found today by the so-called Christian Democrats Schüssel and our new Chancellor. I wish, however, that, after this strange performance today, all day long, the Chancellor and his government team will be happy.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e7958	The two motions for resolutions tabled by Mr Wabl are properly formulated, put in place, supported and negotiated. The next speaker was Mr Antoni.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e7982	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I mean, today's statement by the Chancellor of the Federal Chancellor on future government work and, for me personally, of course, the planned focus in the field of education and training has not only been important signals to the youth of our state, but these statements have also been a call and call for all those who work in the field of education – I mean teachers, teachers, school supervisors, officials and many more – to accept reforms, to allow changes and to force them. The Federal Chancellor meant that in education policy we need the opportunity for young people to develop freely that education policy is more efficient, more creative and that education policy should be able to give young people more joy and fun in learning. I agree with the 100%. But I also believe, like the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, that it is very important that only self-conscious, well-trained and committed people can be able to take part in the future of our state. However, as a quantum leap in our education policy, I would like to quote a sentence from the Government Declaration which has apparently been overlooked or overlooked by all my previous speakers. I quote: "A bundle of measures by the Federal Government will secure the right to training for all young people." . I think we are politically responsible for the fact that today's situation, in which hundreds and thousands of young people without a place of training, even without a place in a middle or higher school, is not responsible. Let us look at what it means not to find a place to train. Let us think about what it means to have a positive examination in a middle or higher school, but to be rejected for lack of space. This leads to insolence, to resignation, yes, to the desperation of young people. Even a drift to the edge of society can be a further consequence. I therefore believe that Viktor Klima's statement that the right of all young people to be trained cannot be assessed at all high enough. Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning of my remarks, I meant that all people working in school or in education are invited to advance developments, to look at changes and not to be afraid of them. I call on all the education politicians in this House to enter into very important and necessary talks with us, as I believe. Let me mention just a few reform needs in the field of education. I mean, a redesign of the school entrance area seems urgently necessary to ensure a solid, non-selective basic education for children. I also believe that structural corrections and changes in schools of between 10 and 15 years of age are time: School association, type variety in the AHS sub-level, Latin versus alternative living foreign language – to name just a few accompanying things. Intensive reforms of vocational education and training, including 9. School and vocational school are necessary in view of the extremely negative situation in the apprenticeship labour market and the intensification of foreign language teaching and computer education. In my opinion, what seems to be the most important at this stage is the need for a reform shift towards EU trained compulsory school teachers in Austria at university level and, subsequently, a uniform right of service and remuneration for all teachers in that state, so that flexibility in school, in teaching and in our entire education can really contribute to further development. Ladies and gentlemen! In addition to school and universities, adult education must be strengthened as a third pillar of our education. In the future, we will not deal exclusively with pre-vocational education. We'll have to learn to learn. Many of us will lose their jobs. If it is ensured that there is an educational system that helps further and facilitates the return to work, then it must be created. In addition, I feel that a supportive assessment practice too motivating for more performance is urgently needed. I believe that alternative forms of performance assessment must contribute more and more to the fact that learning, in whatever way, is perceived cognitively and socially as something positive, as something desirable. Only in this way, I think, will it be possible to make lifelong learning really interesting and correspondingly serious for people. In conclusion: I think the provision of a comprehensive education offer for the Austrian youth is certainly one of the most important tasks of our state. Learning time in school, but also teaching in vocational training are truly not renewable resources. We cannot therefore say: Let's wait! We'll do that once! Better times will come again! These learning times for students and apprentices are over, not recoverable, they are once and for all lost. In view of the shortage of public resources for education, reforms must also be addressed, alternatives should be discussed and the challenges I have mentioned must be accepted and addressed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e8037	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Trattner.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e8058	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! I was somewhat surprised that despite the brilliant budget implementation, as presented to us and also the press to the current Federal Chancellor and former Finance Minister, it was so difficult to find a finance minister with a deficit of 89.4 billion. If you look at the budget implementation in the last quarter, when there was still a minus of 132 billion at the end of October 1996, a minus of 119 billion at the end of November 1996, and then, at the end of the year, only more than 89.4 billion in December 1996, you think as a decent merchant where such a thing can come from. And that's where we found a little bit. Firstly, tax rulings were estimated, taxes charged and estimated in the budget. Companies that have produced only losses for years suddenly received tax prescriptions, tax rulings, credit statements in the order of 2 to 3 million schillings. [[Abg. May. Stadler: To holla!]] They're in the budget. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's a grievance!]] Requests for suspension, complaints against the notices were simply left. So these are predicaments that absolutely do not correspond to the facts. [[Abg. Haigermoser: One could speak of a swindle budget in itself!]] The second case: The federal government has concluded a variety of leasing contracts last year. At the Ministry of the Interior alone, 450, 460 cars, motor vehicles, were financed through leasing contracts, i.e. at an average value of 200 000 S for the car, not 100 million schillings, but only a fraction of the leasing rates, will be made effective or budgetaryly effective in this sector! For an average duration of five years, this is up to 10 to 15 percent. Instead of 100 billion, there are just 10 or 15 billion schilling in there. [[Abg. Kiss: No, no! 100 million!]] Sorry! Instead of 100 million, 10 or 15 million are inside. [[Abg. Kiss: A small difference!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: He only wanted to test if you were careful!]] Another fact: Someone calls me and tells me – surprisingly: We have provided the federal government with a rental space. However, neither in October nor in November nor in December has the Federal Government made any rental payments. Mr Finanzminister! That would be very interesting for you, because you have to make a case crash. At once – in January 1997 – the rents for October, November, December and January were paid. In the last three months, the federal government has almost stopped paying supply bills. That is to say, there was a strict ban on expenditure, so in the last quarter all expenditure, all disbursements stopped, and you, Minister of Finance, are now in the really unnecessary situation of having to work this up first. The burden will now come in January and in February, because at the latest these benefits will be due, and they will only be reflected in the future budget figures. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] The following are the exemptions: There was no exemption in 1996. This will be all the more significant in the 1996 accounts for 1997. Then you will pay back taxes, and so on and so on. I do not want to talk about the withdrawal of the minimum cost or the withdrawal of the works contracts. But this is mainly about: It's already falling away. Let us now also look at the last OECD report, which says that despite the savings package or the tax package, it will not succeed in keeping the budget deficit at 3% of the gross domestic product. It will be 3.5 percent. It is therefore still necessary to take additional measures because of how You know exactly that in 1998 all the decisions or losses will end. Now to the competition of thoughts and ideas. We must certainly have ideas aimed at providing employment impulses. You will certainly find a partner in us if you introduce the Luxembourg model with the refunding of the VAT on first-class residences. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You will surely find a partner in us if you reintroduce the construction model, which will ensure that only 2,000 jobs in the construction sector can be secured. You will certainly find a partner in us when you finally re-establish the commitment of purpose in the context of housing development and do not simply give them a loose way so that the countries can clean up their budgets. But you will not find a partner in us if you believe that you can act populistly and decide with us a so-called solidarity levy. We will not be a partner! We will be a partner for employment policy ideas that will trigger economic growth in Austria. But for all other things, we really are not to have.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e8176	The next speaker is Mr Jakob Auer.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e8200	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Bundeskanzler Klima, in his statement of Government today, said that, in the context of the reform of the Community budget, he said that it was also necessary to reform the common agricultural policy and to reform structural and regional policy. I would like to make a brief comment on these two issues. [[Abg. May. Stadler: He left out the passage! He didn't read it!]] Ladies and gentlemen! On the reform of the common agricultural policy and on the reform of structural and regional policies: I agree with the fact that reform is meant to improve the two areas. However, if this is wanted and demanded by the EU, it will be necessary to implement a reform of the two areas in its own country. I would therefore also like to address the new Minister for Finance. Those who pass through the country see that in the outskirts of the cities, the conurbations, the houses shoot out of the ground, so to speak. The economic tree, the housing promotions allow for this. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: The Minister of Finance has not yet come outside of Vienna!]] Thanks to an excellent economic policy and great employment, many or at least more people are able to realize the dream of the house in the green. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You have to show me the country!]] Ladies and gentlemen! That's the positive side. The other side of the medal is the following: The house builders leave their taxes in the city and carry the claims to these marginal communities. They bring the demands to a fully developed infrastructure to the new homes, expect asphalted roads with lighting, hiking trails, protection routes, schools, kindergartens, canal, water, event centres and so on. These municipalities, Mr Edlinger, are in front of the financial collapse, because especially in the communities where there are no farms, no excessive traffic burden and so on, the quality of the living is appropriate and one wants to settle there. The townman realizes the dream of returning to where he is from. Ladies and gentlemen! I therefore ask the Federal Minister for Finance, where the balance between the economic centres on the one hand and the housing, i.e. those communities which can have the corresponding quality of residence, remains. It is not art, as a tourism community, as an industrial community or as a small and large-scale community to finance the infrastructure. But it is difficult to reach taxes and revenue if these benefits are not available to the municipalities. It is even more difficult, however, for those communities which have to provide supranational services such as water protection and protected areas, nature reserves, nature parks and so on for the general public, but which cannot have operating tax revenue. The new Federal Minister for Finance is called upon to achieve rapid alignment and thus justice in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Secondly, on the agricultural policy concerned, on agriculture. Here too a reference to the Minister of Finance. It should be recalled that the so-called § 7 Commission, when drawing up the Green Report last year, explicitly pointed out that this is also contained in the Government Agreement and, I believe, is not called into question, that the change in the price situation of agriculture prevents a pre-tax rate of approximately 1.2 billion schilling. As requested by the §-7 Commission, this would justify the rapid increase from 10 to 12 percent. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Another point, which was also taken up by the Section 7 Commission on the Green Report, is that despite the relatively high Federal contribution to social security, which is undisputed, agriculture - compared with other occupational groups - has to raise absolutely highest percentages of its income for the financing of pensions. There too, the new Minister of Social Affairs needs action! Ladies and gentlemen! We will support the new ministers, whom we certainly want to be successful, in their efforts, but also, if necessary, the challenges and promises of the predecessors contained in agreements.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e8283	Mrs Gredler. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. – You want 5 minutes off? - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e8304	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. State Secretary! Ni hao Wo shuo zhong wins. – So you are not the only one here who has learned a little Chinese in his youth, and that is why I would like to welcome you. But you're the only government representative here. I cannot welcome the others, but I would definitely like to welcome you to Parliament. Yes, it is true what Mrs Petrovic said, namely that neutrality has not been mentioned. The Liberal Forum has always taken a clear position in this respect, namely that our security structure would actually be exchanged for a security structure within the WEU. We believe that this can and will be a successful model if we co-shape. And that is why I believe that the Government Declaration on page 31 – building and contributing to a European security structure – is in the interest of the Austrians. But I am very wrong with what is being said about the Eastern European countries. On page 7 is the speech of the Eastern European neighbours. There it says: In addition, the eastern opening of Austria has faced a new situation, with new competitors for employment as well as companies directly on the doorstep, but also with new markets. On the other hand, the following statement is made on page 30: Bilateral relations, especially with the neighbouring and eastern European reform states, are being further developed. I think we must be so fair and say that we should also make our solidarity contribution there. In my opinion, we need the Eastern European neighbours just as they need us. That is where we really should make politics active! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] On monetary union: We should not lose the triple A status that we received many years ago, and for this reason is the Liberal Forum for Participation. I just don't understand why, for example, you are not talking about taxation of financial speculation, about the so-called Tobin tax, which must be introduced in the European context. Further: They treat the universities like layaways! I do not think that there should be the same philosophy at universities as in education policy in schools. In my opinion, the schools are giving a much stricter grid and a tighter corset. At the universities this would be counterproductive, and therefore I do not believe that a merger of the university area with that of schools would be a goal. The Government Declaration states: Funding without casting can. - Wonderful! We are in favour immediately, but regret that this has not apparently been the case in the past, for otherwise it would not stand in there. It is also mentioned that research institutions should be streamlined and coordinated. - Wonderful! We regret that it was not possible to streamline and coordinate research institutions in the past, and that the Federal Chancellor's climate needed it to achieve this. Only one point I can't go with, in the damnation of genetic engineering. I believe that we need genetic engineering in the medical field and especially in the diagnostic field. I am not in favour of excluding this field of research and I say: For God's sake, this is not to happen the borders of Austria! In my opinion, in agriculture too, the last word on genetic engineering has not yet been spoken. One should give the researchers the opportunity to produce results, not prescribing politicians that they do not have to think in this direction. [[Acclaim at the Liberal Forum and Abg. Sauer.]] I would just like to comment briefly on what Vice-Chancellor Schüssel said, namely that the savings measures have been achieved fairly. – Mr Vice-Chancellor Schüssel! Please talk to single-parents, talk to people who now have work contracts, journalists or artists! I do not think that the savings measures have been achieved so fairly. Maybe you don't talk enough to the population. The second point raised to me is: The best ambassadors of Austria are the Philharmonics, Mr. Vice-Kanzler Schüssel has said. – First of all, this means that he can reduce his ministry, because all ambassadors who are not Philharmonics are bad. [[Abg. Ing. Meischberger: Schüssel said Karl Moik is the best ambassador!]] Or does this mean that his policy, that only an ambassador for Austria is abroad, is being continued and that she too should be rationalized? [[Intrusions of the Abg. May. Steindl.]] So I think that's actually a scandalous statement! Finally, Although the Federal Minister for Women's Affairs is not present, I would like to say: I was very sorry: There are two women in this house who have the highest rank, that of a club man. I do not understand why the Federal Minister for Women's Affairs, just while these two ladies have spoken, took a break. Maybe she could have done it after that. I know that it is not very convenient not to be present at Mr Schüssel's speech, but I think it was an affront, these two Don't listen to me. [[Abg. Steibbl: such a naughtiness!]] A bad start, but I trust her. [[Abg. Steibl: In the course of equality you must listen to everyone!]] I'm sure she'll get better.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e8389	The next speaker was Mr. Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e8410	Mr President. High house! I think that this is a very favourable opportunity to deal with the concept of future government policy – critically the opposition, but perhaps also critically with the opposition. In my view, it is logical – we have also noted in the Constitutional Committee – that, because of their basic attitude, the opposition parties are, in principle, calling into question everything presented by the government parties. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: When you were young, it was the same with you!]] However, the weakness of the opposition proposals was that you did not put on the table any really closed and practicable alternatives, but limited yourself to partial criticism. It has already begun by criticizing the division of work that the two coalition parties have given themselves in the framework of their government work. One can be of different opinion on this, but I believe that it is not bad if it is not only based on purely technical plausibility, but also if, on the basis of mutual political trust and political cooperation, it can lead to the fact that, in areas which may not necessarily have to belong together, both coalition parties still bear responsibility. And the decisive thing – and there the opposition is just as called as well as we here, as well as the public – is to criticize or praise the results and welcome them – depending on what results are then on the table. So, I think, a constructive, meaningful political debate can take place. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Mr. Khol said that the ideas are already being welcomed!]] Of course, one can also be of a different opinion in principle. I would like to give you the following example: First of all, it's said: It would be logical if education as a whole were summarized in a Ministry of Education. If one had really done that, everyone would have said: No, no, this is an educational monopoly, and there is only political orientation there! If art and culture are then in a "hand" – under quotation marks – then one says: It is plausible, for organizational reasons, that this has been summarized, but then that is the terrible social-democratic cultural hegemony. Then, in reality, Antonio Gramsci is the Minister of Culture, and with that it is quite terrible, and it threatens the revolution, and Mr. Haider of the "Press" would probably have written a comment after comment to criticize it. - On the one hand. On the other hand, I would mean interpreting a priority from home: If there is a culture ministry of its own, then it is an upgrade, but if the culture is located in the Federal Chancellery, then that is a devaluation!, is absurd in so far as the result is concerned. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Your own comrades have said it's a depreciation!]] The question is: What will be the result? What results will we be able to present here in cooperation, including in Parliament? – It will be seen how work continues in this area. But I would also like to quote the following sentence of page 26 of the Declaration of Government – if one or more cultural speakers were still present, I would ask him to take a brief look at the ears, because I think this is an interesting formulation: I would also like to acknowledge the idea that art must take place for the sake of purpose and not as a mere means for the purpose of promoting tourism. [[Abg. Wabl: A problematic formulation!]] It is worth dealing with this sentence. We Socialists have often had criticism. The Mitterer series on television has also worked up beautifully, for which art can actually be misused, just so that the number of nights and the number of tourists vote. With this reorganisation, however, it is now being tried to eliminate the whole from these contexts and economic constraints. I therefore believe that this is a very critical approach which deals with a very specific use of culture. I think it would be worthwhile to deal more closely with this question in the future, rather than debate whether the cultural resort is better accommodated in the Federal Chancellery, Minorities Square or Tradekai. I just find that absurd. I'm much more interested in the results! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Is the sentence on page 26 of you?]] You only have to count: until 26, then put your finger in, and then you will find it. It's the first paragraph above. That's right in there. . I think that is something that gives rise to the debate. A second aspect: I think it is very positive that there is now a State Secretary in the Ministry of Finance who will deal with the problem of the euro, because the question of the euro will be a broad field of activity for right-wing populist experiments. Of course, they will come from the liberals with all possible mobilization attempts to address fears to paint a monetary reform à la 1945 or 1946 on the wall. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: We or Schröder?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: The future Chancellor's candidate!]] – I see how nervous They suddenly become because you're obviously planning to turn on the fear generator and talk to the people, now they're going to the savings book and the money bag. They'll be the only "saviours" to prevent that. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] If you've been taking part in the Mottenkasse of anti-capitalist rhetoric – "Karl Marx" aka Jörg Haider, who has already done this a few times, is now also present – then you should also enter the front of those who are in the fight against the neoliberal concepts that are there: Money stability is more important than employment policy! But then you should really argue this internationally – against the note banks, against Mr. Zeitmeyer from the Deutsche Bundesbank, and as all these ghosts may otherwise call it, because not employment policy is at the centre of efforts, but the redistribution policy in favour of those who "have it anyway", in favor of financial capital, that is, the rich, in their rhetoric: "the above" – and to take the corresponding steps for it. I had just hoped that a constructive opposition, which wants to be taken seriously, which also wants to participate in policy-making, would have made its contribution and welcomed the fact that this new State Secretariat is dealing with this issue. I hope that this State Secretariat will also help to ensure that your fear generator does not get a power to pull the plug out of the socket. – That would, as I say, be a very important thing, and I hope that it will also come about. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I also come to another point. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Hopefully it will be better now!]] I think there are a lot of things that are also coined in your direction – towards the liberals. On page 16 is about: We must not individualise the problems of these people. We must not prevent them by means of abuse debates. – This is an essential part of the FPÖ policy! It's about on page 8: It is important to hear the fears and take them seriously. – It is simply so that, when there are changes, there is uncertainty. Many people in Austria are afraid of the future, fear of changing to the new millennium and fears of the post-war period. I believe that this is very concrete in the statement of Government. It is also tried to provide answers from the government perspective. I mean, if that succeeds, then this is indeed a way to prevent you from continuing to have "Kirtag" with your policy of developing fears and mobilizing people for your ideas – whatever that may be. I believe that this is really a way of dealing with it very efficiently. That makes you nervous! You know you're making this nervous. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] When there was the chancellor change, Jörg Haider's first statement was: He was pale. – The second reaction was: He was offended. As the head of the opposition, he was simply offended because the head of government left. This has, in principle, insulted and annoyed him. [[New calls and ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] The third was: He reminded himself of the TV confrontation with Viktor Klima, which was not very canvas for him, in which Viktor Klima in fact cut off better than Jörg Haider. In order that such a thing as I hope will find a repetition, it must also, as it were, find itself. Today's appearances are the best proof that this nervousness is getting stronger and stronger and that, above all, an blatant strategylessness... – I am not saying "Bello" anymore! [[Abg. May. Stadler: You yourself are disappointed by the Government Declaration! Admit it!]] Since the beard's gone, I've been saying: "Pico Bello"! [[Cheerfulness and applause at SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] It has taken on board a lack of strategy, which has found its clear expression today.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e8594	Next speaker is Mrs Edith Haller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e8619	Mr President. Gentlemen at the ministerial bank! – The ladies seem to have already gotten away from us. - High house! Mr Cap, I am neither nervous nor offended, so I can calm you down. But I'm worried – that's it. There is a quote from Ingeborg Bachmann, which has been mentioned in other contexts lately. It reads: Truth is reasonable. I believe that truth must also be reasonable in connection with the new government reform. Our new Chancellor and his team have been thought of with a lot of advance locust berries and have seen him as the hopeholder of a new Austrian policy. But the truth – and this has already been confirmed in the last few days – is that he has already missed a great opportunity: In the course of the reorganisation of the Federal Ministry Act, he has really failed to provide a meaningful distribution of competence, he has not abolished non-competence, he has created double-tracks, and he has fragmented the health sector. It is true, on the other hand, that at his first press conference he used a lot of English terms and phrases, but also a lot of empty German words, and today's declaration of government was really just a accumulation of all of us well-known common places, which he has still presented in such a theatrical way that it was directly unpleasant to me. Truth is also the following: He said in his government statement: Women's social and economic equality is an important concern for the Federal Government, and we will implement it with the Ministry of Women. But what is really the case? – Austria’s women’s policy has been socialistly dominant for 20 years, but the situation of women remains unsatisfying: There is no social security. The childcare system has been inadequately expanded despite numerous lip confessions and promised billions and millions. Family work is to be divided "half-and-half" – but apparently the new Minister of Women Prammer, who is now no longer present, has problems in his own household, namely her husband, who apparently does not want to participate in it. There is still no approach to equality between family work and work. And over the entire seven years since the women's ministry, the corresponding veto law in the Council of Ministers has never been exercised in favour of women, for example, in order to overcome the deterioration that has really occurred for women in recent times. The new women's minister is called an iron lady of nature conservation. She is, in fact, quite a different type from her predecessor, and I hope that she also has a different access to women's policy from her predecessors, that she intends to pursue women's policy more pragmatically and civilly, and that she also begins to take proposals from free women seriously. In the near future, I expect opinions from her on family promotion, the ban on night work for women, the issue of women in the German army and the serious hardships caused by the savings packages in the area of unemployment insurance and emergency aid. I hope that they will put forward their own initiatives and will not rely on the planned women's people's desire in solving the problems as their predecessor. However, I am skeptical, I must be, because the new Minister for Women Prammer has already rejected the women's policy sector in the country of Upper Austria. That is why I look skeptical about the future, because, in connection with the adoption of the women's resort, one of my real macabress took place: The new Minister for Women should not only represent women, but also animals and the poison sector! – I leave you to paint the corresponding contexts. With the exception of genetic technology, it will in future be responsible for veterinary and veterinary, disinfection and feed, for animal vaccines and price regulation of these vaccines, for animal body disposal and poison transport. In doing so, I find another comparison: The former Minister of Women, Mr Dohnal, has formulated the basis for her personal expectation of the quantity of signatures in the women's people's desire as follows: We will bring together as many signatures as we do in the "Final People's Desire"! – Was that perhaps the start of this new division of competence? At least for me it looks like that. In this context, and precisely because this division of competence and division is something really absurd, I agree with my colleague Dr. Pumberger's amendment, Mag. Mr Kostelka and Mr Khol, on a federal law that amends the Federal Ministry Act, were to be submitted by the main party and by myself to the motion for a resolution 380/A by Mr Kostelka and Dr. Khol. The points set out therein, in particular paragraph 9, are aimed at transferring all the agents of health care, which have so far been grouped in the health sector, to the competence of the Federal Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, so that they remain united, so that there is no absurd dual track record, especially none of them – I would say almost: immoral – blending of competences of the new Minister of Women.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e8692	The amendment referred to by Mrs Haller has just been properly tabled, has been explained in the key points, will be distributed in writing and will be negotiated. The amendment reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e8897	The next speaker is Mr Morak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e8919	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen in plenary – the few who are still here! But I understand. The excitement of the last few days about the various responsibilities, especially in the field of art, I found something exaggerating. The excitement about whether one can now accept the art agendas of a transport minister or of a German chancellor with a State Secretary, or the reactions that have taken place in this field, as I believe, were somewhat inappropriate. In this context, I refer to an article by Michael Scharang in yesterday's issue of the newspaper "Die Presse". That is, as I believe, a very striking assessment of the situation. Because, as Josef Cap said, only what is being done is relevant. What are we doing? What's going on? What are the intentions involved? Where are the priorities set? . I would like to remind you of those areas of problem that have been started in recent years, but have not yet been completed. The first problem is distribution justice. The funds must be gradually deducted from the cultural administration and shifted more towards cultural production. Hardly more than 10 percent still flow into the production of contemporary art! The rest of over 80 percent flows into traditional cultural devices. The second problem is the film. The Federal Chancellor has already mentioned this, it has been a priority of his government statement: The film is the most modern and effective medium in the field of image transfer and identity transfer. In relation to the budgets of traditional cultural institutions, the budget is more than deficient, and this area is hard to support. Of course, there are hardly any producers – this is on the ORF and actually also on the production structure of the last decades. There are hardly any producers with equity, there is no functioning rental market, no distribution and lending structures. The third problem is the Bundestheater. It is part of the Government Convention and the Federal Government's Memorandum of Understanding that the Bundestheater should be distributed from the State budget by the year 2000. – But that can’t be a child-moving! I have already said this in committee, and I say it again: There is a need to find a better solution, a way that is cheaper where we can produce better with scarceer organizational structures. It is also necessary to consider how to make collective agreements more flexible, or to leave the theatres to design appropriate operating agreements. Fourth problem field: There are links between art, market and subsidies. These contexts must finally be redefined and reweighted, especially with regard to the evaluation of art production and the efficiency of cultural management. The fifth problem concerns the promotion of publishing. Why is it in this country that the promotions that exist which are good, which are in order, obviously do not allow publishers to maintain economic independence? – There has to be something wrong, that belongs to analyzing and changing. Sixthly, the partial rights of the Federal Museums. We're on our way. This area belongs to improved, extended. We are ready to negotiate. Seventeenths: the exhibition right. We decided last February. It can't stay the way it is. Eighth: What does public-law broadcasting do for the creatives in this country? Where are the creatives? What does the ORF do, how does he do, and how often does he do it? In the "press hour" of last Sunday Christoph Chorherr talked about this, and I thank him for it. Mr Klepsch has also spoken about this last time we debated the Court of Auditors' report on the ORF. – Both have to say this to their representatives in the ORF curatories! These representatives don't do anything, they don't hit an earwash there! The only one talking about this issue is me, and I've been doing it for two and a half years! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Finally, Mr Bundeskanzler, Mr State Secretary – both are not there, I say it anyway – can be said: It's time for action! I mean, It is time for collaboration in the field of art and culture. Her predecessor was a man of solitary decisions, proud owner of a "very long bank" and proud inhabitants of an ivory tower. – As I have heard from press releases, you, Mr Bundeskanzler, live in Schwechat, and the Secretary of State is a resident of Wiener Neustadt. I hope that will strengthen your reality in the field of art promotion. We are ready for cooperation, and I wish ourselves good luck! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e9003	The next speaker is Mr Haigermoser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e9024	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Morak is right. The Gretchen question is: What is being done by this Federal Government, not only in the arts field, but all in all? Ladies and gentlemen! They have heard today from the statements of the liberals that everyone should have his chance, including the new ministers. I don't know exactly who's who, but that's going to crystallize. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Maybe you can write some descriptions on the government bank next. Well: Climate should also have its chance as Chancellor. As Minister of Finance, he has lost his chance, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] – I have to do with my speaking time. Climate has had its chance as Minister of Finance, and he has played it. It has already been pointed out several times today about the "tax-political evasion of the special class", namely the history of the minimum corporation tax. Mr Finanzminister! You are now invited, together with your Secretary of State, not to take control of the tax culprits and start a new attempt at other levels to tax the small and medium-sized economy again. Therefore, this warning to you. Take it as it is meant, namely, that climate in its Government Declaration has promised to burden the small and medium-sized economy and not to tax it. Therefore, the dangerous threat of the Chamber of Workers or of Mr. Muhm is that it is now necessary for the trader to fall into another pocket to suffocate right in the germ. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] On page 13 of this - I say so - "basic" statement that we had to hear today, once again the medium-sized economy has been sung the song of song. Ladies and gentlemen! The fact is that, as far as the quality of the site in Austria is concerned, we are now in the OECD sector from 9 to 19 in the meantime. Place has fallen back. That is to say, this socialist coalition government with ÖVP-residency over the last ten years has "created" to deteriorate the quality of the Austrian economic location. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We need to ask you if you are willing to give of yourself, as we have heard today, any real actions, for example to increase the amount of investment in order to achieve new market developments. Will you, Mr Finanzminister, start a long-term tax policy and not introduce retroactive tax laws every day that are responsible for the fact that Austria's economic location – country and jobs – is more than at risk? You have to face these tasks. You have our good wish to take along the journey. But we will observe very closely, Minister of Finance, whether you will do these homeworks with your State Secretary and party friend. Until now, you have not done the homework, because the alarm bells would have to ring when it can be heard that the current account deficit has exploded. We have 58 billion Schilling current account deficit at the end of 1996! That means it's fire on the roof. Therefore, it is not at all understandable that climate today has kept and meant that everything is palletti. We do not want to do anything wrong, we want the figures and facts on the table so that this socialist coalition government can act accordingly. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr Klima! In your remarks, you also mentioned the need to support Austrian companies more closely on the market, so that abroad does not fall over this country with well-filled war funds and buy everything up. Do you know that three daughters of foreign companies in Austria have 45 percent of the total market in the food sector? [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: Not in the west!]] So almost half of this In addition, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report and for his excellent report. 100 percent of drug markets are in foreign possession! The Austrian People's Party is responsible for this because it has prevented a antitrust law that could have prevented such a thing. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kiss.]] Mr Kiss! I would like to talk about pannonic events of the past. I believe that in this field we will still be able to fight in a fine way. Ladies and gentlemen! You are already on the road in the same old style by bringing a novel to the Austro-Control-Law – the Austro-Control-Gesellschaft has just been briefly addressed – with which you operate a special class label gap: Nearly one billion is expected to be liquidated again and simmer Austro-Control in the Privilegienstadel. We will draw the people's attention to this and will prevent you from continuing as you have done in the last ten years.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e9099	The next speaker is Mr Amon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e9120	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I was pleased to hear that a non-essential part of the German Chancellor's statement of government was devoted to the subject of youth. The Federal Government is facing a young person who is very critical, who is very performance-oriented, who is hungry for education, but who, of course, is afraid, has fears of the future. I believe that it is a priority task of this Federal Government's policy to take the existing fears and not to incite fears in permanence, just as my previous speaker has done in a perfect way again. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I believe that fears can be taken, above all, by allowing young people to participate, to be involved in decisions in good time and to give them the opportunity to make decisions in university, in the field of student representation, in the field of apprenticeships, as well as in the field of military and civil service representations. I think these co-determination opportunities are really crucial to building confidence and to giving hope. The Declaration of Government spoke of the suffocation of the curriculum and the expansion of the personal development possibilities of young people. I believe that this is very crucial and that the question of promoting different talents must also be a central point of education policy over the next few years. As important as promoting talent and talent is also the question of social learning, learning democracy, in order to ultimately protect the same. That is why it is an explicit demand to finally introduce the subject of political education. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: Super!]] The reform of universities and the expansion of vocational universities and higher education courses are equally necessary, especially because we have the problem at universities today that most of the students are more likely to seek pure vocational training and not from the outset a scientific activity. I therefore believe that this second rail of the vocational colleges is very important in order to ensure a more qualified vocational training and that its development needs to be speeded up. I think it is high time to agree on the reforms that have already been discussed and discussed in apprenticeship training. It is high time to implement the necessary things. I would like to address a point which is often regarded as insignificant, but which is important to me because I know that it is a major problem for many apprentices, especially in rural areas. If Mr Parnigoni has spoken today of the fact that we are finally going to have to make sure that the light is on a day-to-day basis, which is not open to anyone to increase their personal security, then I would also like to ask you to finally give the green light for mofa driving at the age of 15. They know, too, the socialist youth, the trade union youth, the Austrian Federal Youth Association have explicitly called for – especially in the rural area, because there is no adequate public transport expansion – to enable mofa driving for 15 years. They do it anyway, this shows the accident statistics because they have to come to their workplace. Therefore, it would be necessary to finally give green light to that end. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I believe that it is also an essential task of the Federal Government to ensure that the generation contract is respected. Of course, the generation of war and post-war wars has a right to enter a lifetime in safety, but it must also be certain that in the end a social system and a pension system remain for the young working generation. We face problems such as the use of drugs and the spread of sects. These are, of course, symptoms of problems that exist in society. We need to combat the causes of e.g. the destruction of families by creating framework conditions by allowing young families to get along with their income by creating sustainable dwellings and ensuring jobs. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e9170	The next speaker is Mr Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e9191	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! In his government statement, German Chancellor Klima used quite interesting phrases, which were partly very illustrious, not just the history of thermal insulation. It was unfounded what he meant by the "basic upheavals in the east of Austria". Mr Finanzminister! Did he mean the results of his or your party's election in Vienna, or did anything happen in the Burgenland? It wasn't quite clear what he meant by that. He also noted that "ten years of Vranitzky" had shaped the country. Now, if I see that from the security policy which has been somewhat lacking so far in this debate, then I can only say: less marked than rather stamped. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If you look at the security policy of the last ten years under Vrannitzky, you first notice a very friendly attitude towards the old communist regimes. At a time when liberation movements have already been on the road, Vranitzky has met with the old communists and assured them his appreciation. That was once the beginning. After that, he was characterized by a very interesting weakness in the decision-making process as regards security policy. He always said: Of course, we are still neutral. Although we have gone to the European Union without if and but, without If and But, the commitment to Maastricht and thus to the common foreign and security policy have been made, we are still neutral. That is, we will monitor the development and then decide. He said that, knowing that, of course, this is not possible and that, with the accession to the European Union, we have already given up the neutrality de facto. On the other hand, he has understood glaringly that the commitments which would be made to Austria for example in an alliance membership would be very slow, even as the costs would be. But the rights that would be important to us, namely to cooperate with all the possibilities of a full member in the construction of a new security structure, he did not give the Austrians. We have been waiting today for what his successor, the supposedly so dynamic former Minister of Finance climate, will say about whether he will show new lines. But only the speech showed that the dynamics was over very quickly. In the Government Declaration, the old plateaus were heard again. He has known himself as a comprehensive security policy, meaning environmental protection, social justice and the fight against gang crime. He then said that Austria would cooperate in the construction of a European security structure, but as long as the objectives have not yet been achieved – so literally – whether it is not very useful for Austria to give up any scope. Ladies and gentlemen! What does that mean? On the one hand, we want to cooperate in the construction, on the other Do we want to wait until the goals are achieved? That is to say, we are waiting for the international community to decide how security policy continues, and we are waiting for what states such as Slovenia, Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic will then decide on our security policy. They will enter accession negotiations with NATO next year, while we are still waiting, and as the Federal Chancellor has said, look at what the objectives will look like. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] However, the Federal Chancellor knows very well – and I hope the Foreign Minister will have whispered to him, because they have constantly suffocated during the debate – that the objectives in European security policy have long been set aside. They have long gone in the direction that the European Union must finally realize that it is not at all able to make real progress in the common foreign and security policy. This would not be useful either, because there are functioning structures, and it has been clearly defined – not only since yesterday or before, but for a long time now – that only NATO, perhaps together with the Western European Union, will be able to build a sustainable European security structure in Europe. Now it is about the role Austria plays in this international concert. If we stand afar off, we say, we will watch, we will wait, what others then decide on us, or we finally make the open and clear decision: Yes, we want to participate!Unknown term type: "%s".? We have once performed an important bridge function between East and West. This one has long since arrived under Vranckky, under a bowl, under Fassleven. We would expect clear guidelines to be adopted and said: Yes, Austria has a responsibility to bring something in, and we are going into these structures with all our rights and obligations and we are helping to build a lasting peace order in Europe. That is not the case, as we have noticed. This government will continue to disappear. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Clubobmann Khol has gone so far as to say: You have to read between the lines! This could only mean that these decisions will be made next year or this year. – But nothing can be read between the lines. I think this non-commitment was clear. This Federal Government – the Minister of Finance first mixed with the name cards – is like a card game where the ace is missing. You can mix and issue different cards, but you won't end up winning a game because the stockings have been taken out of your hand. The Jolly Joker sits elsewhere, he's in the ranks of the liberals. You will still have to do this properly in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e9273	The next speaker is Mr Kiss. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e9294	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) It's the same thing as before: As security spokesperson of the ÖVP, I welcome the change at the head of the Ministry of the Interior. With Karl Schlögl, I mean a politician enters the scene to which I entrust the leadership of this very sensitive, heavy ministry. From this point of view, I would like to offer very fair, constructive cooperation from the new Minister of the Interior, and I am convinced that, in terms of content, he will also change so many things in the trend of what his predecessor has left him. But above all, I also believe that a new quality of handshake is possible with the new Minister of the Interior – and I say it deliberately as part of this government coalition. I am convinced that this is good for this country and good for the government. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You told him twice the confidence!]] I've never made a murderer's pit out here from my heart. I have never been one who has not honestly said that it is happening there and there. But at this hour it is also appropriate to say: Let's be the past! There is a change in the government in the person of the Minister of the Interior, and the advance of confidence that we receive from the Austrian People's Party Minister for the Interior Schlögl is a proposal that we will critically question, which we will objectively consider. We are convinced, however, that he will not abuse our trust. I assume that this is the basic principle. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: We know that from you!]] Mr Haider! It is the right of the opposition to question everything in principle. I'd probably do the same. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You do too!]] However, it is also the duty of a partner in the government to give to others the degree of confidence with which he is then able to meet the requirements of content, to conduct constructive discussions, and thus, of course, to have success in this country. We want to help him because we too are interested in homeing successes for this country and for its people. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: I'm touched!]] [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] There are, of course, no advances for berry, which are not linked to demands as well. There are some essential points that we know that the Minister of the Interior is truly required. I'll start with the word reform. Security reforms are undoubtedly underway. If you think that we actually have a central structure in all areas, a strong hierarchical structure, then you can see that it is necessary to decentralize. It is necessary to delegate responsibility from above at regional and local level whether this is in the personnel, budgets or in the field of competence. It will succeed if only the common will is there. We want it, and I am convinced that the new Minister for the Interior will do the same. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Secondly, I say that, of course, there will also be the new laws on foreigners. We have to rethink them. I liked the programmatic statements made by the new Minister of the Interior – I say this clearly. I agree with him in the assessment of foreign laws. I am ready to talk about harmonizing the residence law with the Foreign Employment Act and I will be strong within the EIA to ensure that my group really agrees with these considerations. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: That's great!]] We simply need to work together with all those involved, together with the social partners, to cope with this very sensitive matter together with the population. Without the population it is certainly not possible! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Thirdly, Of course, the new methods of investigation, which we wish to give the executive, will already have their test in the deliberations in the Subcommittee of Justice and the Justice Committee this spring. I am confident that with these opportunities we will have more success in the fight against organised crime and terrorism. I trust Schlögl that he sees it as pragmatic as we have seen it so far. One last: Let us all be convinced that internal security is only guaranteed if we have motivated officials. And I would like to thank the 32 000 men and women who every day ensure the maintenance of peace, order and security in this country. Let us give them the motivating boost that enables them to continue their work – in the service of the Republic of Austria and, of course, in the service of the people of that country! The new Minister of the Interior could succeed. We will offer cooperation with hand beat quality constructively.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e9418	The next speaker was Mr Krüger. Please, honourable Member. Voluntary time limit likewise 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e9439	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Now we have heard a wall of love and fidelity in the great coalition. It is almost suspicious, though we, ladies and gentlemen, know that it is in fact quite different that there is more dissonance in the government, that there is deep distrust, caused by the Deal Bank Austria/CA, and that deep distrust cannot be eliminated either by mutual surrender of love and fidelity. [[Abg. Dr. Lucisch: Default!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! When the German Chancellor's climate with his ideas went from government reform to the public, the first was a reduction of the cabinet, which would have made sense especially in times of a savings budget. Well, for a very long time these ideas have not been able to hold, because now a minister is sitting less on the government bank, but a State Secretary is more. That means in the final result: No improvement has been made in the number of cabinet members in the cabinet. Federal Minister Edlinger! I saw your interview. You have only sprung from self-confidence and told the animated public that you are not suffering from complexes. I did not expect that either, and in fact you need a proper portion of self-confidence if you take over one of the most important offices in this Republic. But I would be interested in your opinion that the first election was first of all by another finance minister in the person of the head of state of the Burgenland, then your name came into the debate and finally you are not alone in the Ministry of Finance, but at least a State Secretary has been put to your side. [[Calls and calls to the SPÖ and the Freeman.]] Of course, ladies and gentlemen, you can think about how you want, but a State Secretary of the own Party in his own ministry – this is a bit unusual. I'm sure you'll be right. This made sense in times when Mr Ditz was still looking into the then Minister of Finance Lacina or trying to help and control him, but what a sense it should make of giving to the Minister of Finance, who is set up by a party, another State Secretary of the same Party, is really incomprehensible. This, Mr Federal Minister, really looks as if Mr Bundeskanzler Klima did not trust you to deal with the comprehensive agendas of the Ministry of Finance alone! This conclusion is close, but of course we give you the opportunity – and honestly allow you – to blur this impression. However, for the public there is the impression that a kind of division of competence takes place in the Ministry of Finance and that the agendas of the Foreign Minister in the Ministry of Finance are obviously not perceived by you, but by Mr Ruttenstorfer. Ladies and gentlemen! I am now coming to the new division of competence in the arts and culture sector. I would draw attention to the fact that art and culture are already separate, which, of course, is absurd. In the Ministry of Science, Federal Art promotion and also the Federal Theatre are administered, the Federal Museums and the National Library are located in the Ministry of the Federal Minister of Science Gehrer. This is, of course, a nonsense that belongs together. Our idea is that a uniform Ministry of Education should be created, which on the one hand includes teaching and on the other hand the universities and the arts are awarded. Ladies and gentlemen! Clearly it is that art and culture have come to the political maneuver, and that is unfortunate. You cannot base your skills on how they are staffed. The distribution of competence must be carried out exclusively in terms of matters, otherwise it will come about that for medicinal products intended for human beings, Mrs Hostasch is now responsible for medicinal products, but for medicinal products whose use is intended for animals, the new Minister for Women, the Upper Austrian Minister Prammer. This is certainly an end, but I am not too optimistic to speak of the establishment of a working group which is to achieve a result in terms of a new distribution of expertise and expertise by the summer. I believe that it will be possible until the summer, but certainly not until the summer of 1997.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e9489	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kukacka. Please, honourable Member. Voluntary time limit likewise 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e9510	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! High house! I am grateful for the fact that Mr Federal Minister did not, like his predecessor, Schools, although he essentially has the same place of business, with the right to be the Minister for the Future of the Federal Government. To be honest, I believe that every minister would be overwhelmed with this claim, and in particular the combination of these completely different tasks and competences which the Federal Minister for Science and Transport has – I call only as different areas as universities, science, infrastructure of the whole of transport, railways, telecoms – is so comprehensive that it is certainly difficult that a minister alone manages this large task optimally. In his own interest, therefore, no minister of this attribute, to be responsible for the whole future, should be hanged or possibly attached by a marketing strategy or also by the media. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Does that mean that you no longer believe in the future?]] This is a common task for the entire Federal Government, and I am glad that this task will also be done together. Ladies and gentlemen! As an ÖVP Transport Spokesman, I would like to ask Mr. Bundesminister to be able to deal with these very diverse and complex transport problems forward-looking in the interests of the country, in the interests of optimal transport policy, the corresponding impact, the necessary far-sightedness and professional competence. Our cooperation can and will be offered, and we face him with no reservations at all in this and for this task. Ladies and gentlemen! An important area was and is the toll policy. This goes from Tollpickerl to road pricing. This toll policy creates emotions, but without wanting to beautify the problems and mistakes that have arisen, for example, in the distribution of the pickerl, we should leave the church in the village. It is true that many other European countries – France, Switzerland, Italy, Spain – are already having tolls, much higher tolls than we do here in Austria. I am sure that the problems of distribution will also be solved soon and that this vignette scandal will then resolve like a soap bubble. I mean, the opposition should also be clear: Those who are constantly scandalizing this subject not only harm this federal government, but also harm Austrian tourism, damage the Austrian economy, damage the reputation of the Republic of Austria, and for this the opposition itself should be too good, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Another important task of the Minister of Transport will definitely be to give Parliament the long-standing government proposals on the 20th. ==References====External links== KFG-Novelle on the decision-making process so that these important measures can be implemented, without appropriate political junkitization. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we expect things to happen quickly, in such a way that you can also fulfil your own claim, which you have formulated. Minister To one person himself said to the "standard" that he had no pleasure with the point leader's license because the organizational effort is difficult to deal with. Minister! You know from your work as Minister of the Interior yourself that all 3.1 million driving licences issued by the Federal Police Directorates – without the District Headquarters, I would like to emphasize – are dealt with manually by means of cardei and plates – and that in the age of the computer! I would therefore like to say: Let us first create the necessary conditions – for example, a central register for driver's licenses – before addressing the creation of points driver's licenses. If you do so, if You also pay attention to the correct order, then you will also find us at your side. Ladies and gentlemen! A final word on the subject of transport safety package: Point driver's license, ghost driver, 0.5 promille. These issues, ladies and gentlemen, are not all included in the Coalition Pact, they are all not defined in a certain direction. For us, transport safety issues are technical issues and not ideological issues. The subject of transport safety is not a left-wing issue for us, as Minister Scholten has defined, but it is not a right issue for us either, but it is an extra-participality, a world-wide non-binding issue, which should not be dealt with Party-politically, but should only be resolved according to professional criteria. If we deal with these problems in this way, we will also agree on these questions without problems.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e9554	Mr Magistrate has now been reported to speak. Schreiner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. The overall speaking time of your group is 7 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e9575	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! If honesty is to be an important political category and something to which the people hold and to which politicians should be bound, then today it has been trampled with feet, namely by the Federal Chancellor himself. Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Chancellor was, after all, the Finance Minister of the Federal Republic of Germany, who was involved in the package on the sale of the CA-BV and also claimed a job guarantee for the employees in the 14 points discussed in this Parliament. Today I read in the tomorrow issue of a daily newspaper – I quote the Chancellor of the Federal Republic literally –: "Whoever gives job guarantees today is not honest. There are no patent recipes for employment." - When was he honest? Today or a few weeks ago? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Böhacker: Actually never!]] In fact, he is not honest, because one cannot change one's opinion so much in the economy within three weeks. Ladies and gentlemen! On the question of financial policy, a lot has already been said today, and I am referring to the address of the new Federal Minister for Finance, who comes from local policy, a few comments. In local policy, he was used to getting the revenue almost automatically. From now on, as Minister of Finance, he will have to make sure that he really collects all revenue, and there is a very important area to be considered, namely the area of tax justice. The new Minister of Finance has guided us, the liberal opposition, to be able to do so with all the opposition parties, also with us liberals. He can't be very good with us emotionally, but we don't want to embrace him at all, we don't want to go to a glass of wine with him, but we just want an objective work for this republic from him, and we ask for it today. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The Federal Minister for Finance has said that he will, of course, enter into a dialogue with the opposition and I would like to reply to it: We will be a partner for him when he submits proposals to that effect and begins a reorganisation of our tax legislation in such a way as to ensure that genuinely reasonable adjustments are made. He will have a partner in us when it comes, for example, to actually impose the halving of the tax on unabsorbed profits for companies. The ÖVP wants to do so, perhaps the EIA will increase its conviction that the entire government will finally do so. He will have a partner in us when it comes to reducing additional wage costs. He will have a partner in us when it comes to finally introducing an eco-tax together with the European Union in Europe and reducing the taxation of jobs. And, Mr Federal Minister, you will also have a partner in the liberals when it comes to abolishing taxes that make no sense at all. Federal Minister for Finance! There is, for example, a land value charge for which you are responsible. As payment cards are sent out with 22 s load, and the administration costs for this, we estimate, 300 p. That is, for the Republic a minus of about 280 p. It doesn't make sense today! Federal Minister for Finance! You will have a partner in the liberals when you deal with a few things in the matter of more tax justice, for example, the fixing of a ban on retroactive tax laws, so that it can no longer happen that a supreme court lifts the minimum price and 11 000 cases of appeal are pending. You will also have a partner in the liberals if you reunite tax law and trade law and do not continue to separate it. Mrs. Federal Minister Hostasch! According to today's newspaper reports, if a Constitutional Court has found that a tax is unfair and annulled, it would also make sense to increase the depreciation period of economic goods. – I do not think that this is very encouraging for the economy, Mrs Hostasch! That's exactly what the Austrian economic location doesn't need at all. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This is the total uncertainty for all investors who are confronted at once with a depreciation period that is economically unreasonable, just because tax law requires it. I would like to give this to the Federal Minister for Finance for his work. I think it's a lot more to do than say today that it's all easy to make. This includes more than just managing – it also includes a portion of courage and a portion of creativity. I'm not sure this government really has it!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e9633	The next speaker was Mr. Dr. Lukesch. - Please. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e9654	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! I regret the fact that the new Minister for Finance is no longer there as a speaker in the People's Party. But his State Secretary is sitting here and will be happy to give him such wishes and requirements, I assume, if he listens to what we have to say to parliamentarians. Science and research need, in particular, the Minister of Finance and his open ears – let us say better: the open purse of the Minister of Finance – if the objectives announced by the Federal Chancellor are to be implemented in the next few years. Ladies and gentlemen! The government statement by Mr Bundeskanzler Klima contained a whole series of remarkable sentences and findings for me. He spoke of the emancipation of the economy of politics. In my opinion, he should have referred to universities as the best example. We have released the universities with the UOG 1993 into an autonomous open space, which was a century-old step which is now being carried out and is to be implemented until autumn. The Federal Chancellor spoke of learning from comparison with other countries, he spoke in his Anglophilic type of best practice models. In the field of vocational colleges, of course on the strengths of the Austrian People's Party, higher education policy has created a private-sector organisational model, the Federal Minister One is now called upon to extend it accordingly. A further point to the Minister for Finance: If we want to deal with the future-rich applications available in the University of Applied Sciences, we will need more than 200 million Schilling for this new educational rail in this year and 200 million Schilling more in the coming financial year than is foreseen in the High School Development Programme, in order to be able to offer interesting projects such as, for example, an Austrian-wide facility management or environmental technology in the framework of a technical college. The Federal Chancellor spoke of the need for a new study law to autonomousize, flexibilize, quickly adapt the study contents, but also to shorten study periods, to reduce the number of drop-outs. Over the last two years, we have worked very intensively on such a new university study law, discussed a lot, reviewed it and, in the last few days, in cooperation with the scientists of the Social Democrats and the Austrian People's Party, we have compiled a government template or a draft on a government template that is looking for the same in Europe. Ladies and gentlemen! When I speak with German professors, with German colleagues from universities and colleges, I am similar to the Austrian tax structure, company location, tax location Austria: The German colleagues become a little pale, a little jealous about this extent of autonomy – and thus the withdrawal of the state from this field – which is currently being offered to the Austrian universities and colleges. That was the right way. We are on this track in Europe! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Of course, there is still a lack of the area of higher education law when it comes to the transition and the major reform of universities, and the Minister of Finance has to listen carefully again. This higher education law must be negotiated over the next few months. The primary goal should be to create a motivation shift for university members – for the assistants, for the professors. A final sentence on the discussions on the reorganisation of competences and the allocation of ministries which have begun in the last few days. I am of the opinion that a Ministry of Education as a Ministry of the Future for Youth would make sense. At the same time, however, I believe that such a Ministry of Education, which should include universities and research, should not be shortened by research competence. Research and teaching are a unity at universities, we should consider this in the case of any reorganisations of concepts. Therefore, determined further work for Austria, determined further work for our future, determined further work for our youth!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e9714	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Schweitzer. - Please. The speaking time left to you is 2 minutes. This is the remaining time available to your group due to the agreed blockage time.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e9736	But that's not a lot! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! One of the most important statements of the new Minister of Finance in recent days has said that he will make the euro tasty to Austrians, the Austrian population. I mean, he should not try to make this currency of the population tasty, he should just inform! He should tell the Austrians what they expect when this common currency comes. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You will be contributing to this, Mr State Secretary. Let the Austrians know that this single currency will be a soft currency, that the euro will be a devaluation currency from the outset, through the participation of the southern European countries, which now want to achieve convergence criteria with all possible tricks. Mr State Secretary! You know how we do: If the countries with weak economic performance can no longer devalue, unemployment will rise there. The result will be that the labour force will move on to migration. If we want to prevent this – this is what Professor Streissler told us last week in the context of an event on the stock exchange – then there will have to be a large-scale compensation. He said literally: International financial compensation will be mandatory. – We must also say that to the people if we want to participate in this common currency! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In any case, this will result in a further burden for the Austrian budget, for the Austrian taxpayer. It is a cause for extreme unrest, especially if we re-informed the people into this adventure, just as it has already happened in the referendum on accession to the European Union. Mr State Secretary! What is the result, however, when Austria's competitiveness may continue to decline and many industries in Austria will no longer be competitive? – These sectors will migrate, or there will have to be significant wage cuts. All of this must be said to the Austrian people before this irreversible decision. And then the people will decide in a referendum whether they really want this soft single currency!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e9793	Mr Rasinger is next speaker. Please, honourable Member. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e9814	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. Minister! High house! I would like to draw three points from the German Chancellor's climate statement, which is very close to me as a doctor and health care officer of the ÖVP and which I would particularly like to support. First: Modern medicine is to be made accessible to all, it is not a two-class medicine to operate. I think that is a very important goal, if not the most important one. I always mention the example of the USA, because there are 30 percent medically undersupply and 17 percent are not provided at all. But dying on the waiting list is not funny, and for monetary reasons no one should be harmed in this regard. Second point: You should not only see the nursing system we have, but above all you should keep the healthy healthy! I can only double and triple this. That will be the megatrend of the future, as I believe. I'll add: It is equally important to rehabilitate people who were in the hospital. Austria has a very great tradition. Perhaps in addition to cross-sectional paralysis, heart attack and rheumarehabilitation, we could also approach stroke and cancer rehabilitation. Thirdly, I also think that better coordination between the groups – which has been addressed to hospital, ambulatory area – is also very essential, but that must not be associated with new obstacles, new shocks – as is very often the case today. Finally, the so-called small patient who cannot defend himself in the system is the one who falls through the rust. I would be pleased to enter into a major dialogue. After the hospital reform, we now have time to discuss how a reform in the outpatient field should look. I would like to welcome the merger of the resorts for three reasons. First: It was always difficult – as climate has said – in Austria to bring together health policy decision-making and planning. I always heard: "We're not responsible." Secondly, Health and social affairs are very closely related. Take unemployment, for example: Unemployed people have a much higher risk of disease, suffering from depression, are at risk of suicide and infarction. The unemployed also live simply unhealthyly. There is also a good combination of health and social affairs. Remember the Austrian reality: Social security is responsible for health insurance, rehabilitation and accident insurance. There's nothing to do with having a minister in charge of nothing. There's also a combination that makes sense. We have an internationally regarded system, and I believe that it can only be improved by bringing together responsibility. I come to the conclusion. I believe that we have gained a woman who has the necessary heart for patients with the occupation of the new Ministry of Health and Social Affairs – in the name already the order of value. That seems to me to be crucial. In one case or another, it may also be necessary to acquire expertise. I like to make myself available for this. In any case, you have a fair and understanding partner in us.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e9872	The next speaker is Mr Deputie's friend. Please, honourable Member. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e9893	Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Security policy has a very high priority for the Austrian People's Party. We are now two years with the European Union, and with this year the Schengen Agreement is to enter into force. The EU, with everything that belongs to it, moves the population and is a very important matter. In this context, of course, the limits are also affected. I would like to mention the western borders that will be lost more or less with the accession to the Schengen Agreement. But not only these borders, but the EU's external borders themselves are a very important area, whose protection we still need to strengthen considerably. In this regard, the Bavarian police have repeatedly accused us of negligence. Again and again it is claimed that too many illegals and criminals enter the EU across our borders. In order for us to gain more confidence in this issue, we need to take more action and to give greater importance to this issue. An important area in this context is also the area of staffing. The officials are repeatedly exposed to great uncertainty when, for example, they are able to carry out their duties in the immediate vicinity of their home country and then suddenly move hundreds of miles away to an eastern border. There is, of course, a lack of motivation, which we cannot afford, because the use of safety must not be neglected. I would particularly like to draw attention to the fact that, as a result of this, I also want to make an appeal to the Minister of the Interior that security policy is designed in such a way that it is understood by the people and carried by the executive bodies. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In this sense, I expect the new Minister of the Interior – unfortunately, his predecessor was not always aware – to see an improvement in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e9935	Mr Dr. Drinkl came to speak. Please, honourable Member. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e9957	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The composition of the new Federal Government actually gives rise to new opportunities for Austrian domestic policy. A major concern of the Austrian People's Party is a small number of unemployed young people. We are rightly proud of having the lowest youth unemployment in Europe. But we must do everything we can to ensure that we can still say this in ten years' time. Therefore, the ÖVP has also strongly lubricated the coalition engine in this area and has put on the table a comprehensive reform package on apprenticeship training, which is now to be implemented quickly. It is not enough to recognize the achievements of teaching establishments verbally and to make no concrete contribution to them. Rather, there is a need for systematic strengthening and sustainable promotion of this training column. Our four cornerstones are therefore: Debureaucratisation, flexibilisation, cost relief for and confidence in teaching firms. The biggest problem for training firms is the many difficult and often incomprehensible provisions of the apprenticeship right in the Vocational Training Act and in the Child and Youth Employment Act. We have often listed examples of this, I do not need to repeat it extra. However, an apprentice who does not find a job is preferable to get up to the ladder or operate a machine than not to get a place at all. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Furthermore, I believe that the EU-wide adaptation of the protection age to 18 years of age is long overdue in the Child and Youth Employment Act and that it could be implemented immediately. However, it is also important to create a fair cost relief for training firms – not by penalties and additional charges, but by positive incentives. Two proposals on this from our side: First of all, health insurance contributions, as with all other young people, could be spared in so far as the pupils are insured with parents. Secondly, One should seriously consider rethinking a tax exemption for training firms in order to achieve a balance between training establishments and those who no longer impose this burden. For free, it will certainly not be possible to win the fight against youth unemployment. I just can't explain to an apprentice why the public hand for a student is willing to spend ten times as much as for an apprentice. In principle, the time is not suitable for additional loads. The ÖVP is therefore quite vehemently opposed to any type of criminal taxation. We will not accept this either. Our Minister for Economic Affairs, Mr Farnleitner and Mrs Gehrer, have done a lot of preparatory work in this area. I should like to cordially invite the Minister of Finance, but also the Minister of Social Affairs, to work together with us on a good solution to this so important complex. - Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e10020	The next speaker is Mr Dkfm. Mühlbachler. - Please. Voluntary time limit likewise 4 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e10041	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Last year, the countries and municipalities, also represented by the Federal Government of the Federal Republic of Germany, joined the Federal Government in order to reach an agreement, which should therefore be regulated by federal legislation. ==References== The signature of the final act of the consultation mechanism has now taken place in December. The Minister of Finance was still on the side of the municipalities at that time. Today he is in the position of the stronger one, that of the federal government. I would like to make one point in my remarks: The decision-making of the consultation mechanism is a first step towards protecting countries and communities from over-exploitation. However, a second step is missing, namely the fact that directives on cost assessment are in fact adopted by the Ministry of Finance, as provided for in the Federal Budget Act. I see my role as representatives of local authorities in calling for these directives from the Minister for Finance. I am convinced that, as a former financial city council of the city of Vienna, he understands this and sees that the communities depend on clear rules. I hope that this desire will be met immediately. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! A final remark on today's debate, first and foremost on a speech by Dr. Haider. [[Abg. Haigermoser: We are not curious about this conclusion!]] Mr. Dr. Haider has publicly stated here that Dr. Victor Adler would be his model. [[Abg. Madl: No, climate model!]] - I was surprised. He called Dr. Victor Adler a millionaire. [[Abg. Haigermoser: We don't care!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It could imitate this example quietly in all areas and could cause the bear valley for which it pays only minor taxes to be distributed among taxpayers.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e10131	The last speaker is Mr Head of Parliament. - Please. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e10152	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Last but not least, at the end of the list of speakers, a very important one, as I mean, social and health concerns, namely sport. In 1995 it succeeded in finally giving sport the importance in the policy he had long deserved, namely by setting up his own State Secretariat. This office became Magistrate. Gerhard Schäffer, who, at the beginning of his short term of office, succeeded in creating some important projects and initiatives, but also in starting a realignment of the sports budget, with the approaches to bring more efficiency and more transparency into the promotion of sports. It was an evil damper for the sport when this State Secretariat abolished after a year and to the Multi-State Secretariat of Mag. Slot attached. It has actually happened, Mr Grabner, which was to be feared: There are no new projects and initiatives – as in the case of Schäffer – followed, and the reform efforts in the budget structure have also remained. We're with Mr. Mag. Wittmann a new State Secretary, who has a manageable place to host with art and sport. Mr Wittmann, State Secretary! They are generally considered unconventional in your thinking and working methods. I believe that this unconventional kind will also need to be used to tackle necessary structural adjustment in this variety of organisations and resulting overlaps of competence. A small example is the top sport. ==References== It can be read that the High Sports Committee was set up by Minister of Education Hawlicek to provide technical assistance to the technical bodies. Unfortunately, in recent years it has become an additional funding committee for associations – a kind of second sport aid. There is a serious opportunity to act in 1997, Mr State Secretary. We are about to discuss the 1995 sports report in a subcommittee. There we can analyze the situation of sport in peace and seriance together. In the budgetary consultations for 1998 and 1999, we can use these consultations as a lever for structural optimization. Policy should not go into sport, but it should provide a framework for the design of the budget. New trends and new developments that are taking place outside the established sports structures must also be taken into account. – keyword: Trendsports. Mr State Secretary! You will find a constructive partner in the ÖVP and in me as their sports spokesperson when it comes to implementing these concerns. I wish you every success!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e10201	There is no further word message. The debate is closed. The rapporteur is not asked for a final word. We are now entering the votes. I ask you to take the seats. We are the first to vote on those motions for resolutions tabled in connection with the Federal Chancellor's declaration. First of all, we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr. Schmidt, Dr. Petrovic and comrades on the development of a concept for a Federal Cultural Foundation. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution by Mr Petrovic and Mr Comrades on ever-ending neutrality in Austria. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution may give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Petrovic and Mr Comrades on 8.5 billion tanks for budget consolidation. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution may give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We are now voting on the draft federal law, which amends the Federal Ministry Act, together with the title and receipt in 579 of the Supplements. Mr Pumberger and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment here. First of all, I will vote on the parts concerned by the amendment, and then on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. The amendment tabled by Dr Pumberger and comrades refers to paragraphs 4, 7 and 9 of the draft law. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this amendment to be a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. I shall immediately vote on paragraphs 4, 7 and 9 of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Who is to give a sign of consent? - That's the majority. The above-mentioned legislative bodies have been adopted by a majority of the Committee's reports. Finally, I am voting on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to a corresponding sign. – This too is adopted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a corresponding sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is adopted by a majority of the third reading. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution by Mr Petrovic and Mr Comrades on the establishment of a Ministry of Science, Research, Culture, Arts, Media and Communication. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The motion for a resolution is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Dr Schmidt and Mr Comrades on the reorganisation of the Federal Ministries. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. This motion for a resolution is rejected. The agenda is exhausted. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_1997-01-29-020-XX-NRSITZ-00060_d7e10360	I declare that in today's sitting, the self-employed have been brought in motions 387/A to 389/A. Question No 1894/J to 1910/J has also been received. The next meeting of the National Council on business communications and allocations will be convened immediately, at 18.52 p.m., following this meeting. The sitting is closed.
