ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e2555	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to welcome you and ask you to take the places. I hereby declare the 93. Meeting of the National Council for Opened. The official protocols of 89. Meeting of 9. ==References====External links== Meeting of 10. In October, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. No one has been reported as preventative for today's session. Absence of mandate and fishing
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e2586	The Federal Electoral Authority has received a notice that Member Rudolf Anschober has waived his mandate and, in his place, Mrs Mag. Gabriela Moser was appointed to the National Council. Since the election permit is already in place and the person mentioned is present in the house, I will immediately make their fishing observation. After the reading of the vow formula by the writer, the mandater will have to do her fishing with the words "I promise". I am now seeking the author, Mrs Rosemarie Bauer, to read the vow formula. - Please, Mrs. Writer.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e2613	"They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your duties."
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e2628	I promise.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e2644	I welcome the new colleague in our midst and wish her all the best. [[General condolences.]] For business treatment, Mrs Dr Schmidt has reported. - Please. Amendments to the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e2680	Mr President. On behalf of my group, I would like to raise objections to today's agenda. The budget accompanying law, which is on the agenda today, has been applied in a way to the parliamentarians who are leading us to this step. It has become so unbelievably apparent, as the Committees have misused as an alibi, and as Members are degraded to the staff with cynicism, that I believe that a debate would be necessary before the parliamentarians of the government groups intend to use their two-thirds majority as a power instrument to abandon the 24-hour delay. I am therefore seeking to listen to our objections in the context of a debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e2710	Thank you. You heard the objections. Similarly, Mrs Petrovic would like to speak on business. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e2735	The Green Club endorses the amendments of the Liberal Forum, since the agreements and the deadlines laid down in the Presidency have not been complied with.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e2759	The Head of Parliament has yet to report on business treatment.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e2780	Mr President. My group, too, fully endorses the amendments tabled by Mr Schmidt and Mr Petrovic. In addition, I should also like to point out that the proposals made yesterday in their legislative text, on the one hand, and in their explanations, on the other hand, not only show grammatical errors, but, on the other hand, the formulas for calculating the suspension, the calculations proposed in the substance do not match. I therefore believe that both the law in essence and the explanatory notes are not complete and corrective in this area is urgently necessary. I am not prepared to agree with my group, to refrain from the delay and not to make the necessary corrections, nor to do so in relation to a law which, in the opinion of the majority of this Parliament, is supposed to have a significant impact on the planning of life of all Austrians. I would therefore ask you, Mr President, to allow the debate on this subject to take place.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e2814	The debate is permitted. I can make the decision on the objections to the House. First of all, it will be necessary to consider whether the proposal will be followed by the second item on today's agenda, report by the Financial Committee on the 1. Budgetary accompanying law to be removed from today's agenda, which will have to be voted on in accordance with this debate. If this request does not find a majority, then further decision will be taken – and a two-thirds majority will be required – whether this point will be negotiated. In accordance with Rule 50 of the Rules of Procedure, several objections can be summarized if they concern the same subject matter. This is the case here. In the sense of practice, I make use of the possibility to limit speaking time to 5 minutes and the number of speakers to a maximum of three per group. In this sense, we are now going into the debate. The first word is spoken by Dr Schmidt. The speaking time is 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e2851	Mr President. Minister! High house! It is not new that, in addition to the written constitution, there is a real constitution in Austria. The real constitution looks so that the legislation has always been significantly out of the house and less assumed by this House. One will certainly judge this side by side of written and real constitution differently. I only think that if this real constitution begins to put the written constitution almost out of place, every Democrat and every Democrat would have to ring the alarm bells. I believe that the way in which they proceed with this 1. The budget-accompanied law was chosen by the parliamentarians of the government groups to give rise to the alarm bells. In my view, democracy is not an empty bag in which we can pack everything, whether it meets democratic requirements or not, but rather I believe that the deformation of such a bag, if you say so, also indicates the deformation of democracy. You, who, on other occasions, always conjure up Parliament's reputation and also have us on your side, if you accuse the liberals of undermining this reputation, undermine the seriousness of this process and thus the reputation of Parliament. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum, on the Greens and on Members of the Liberals.]] For what you have done yesterday and in the last days to come to this budget accompanying law ridicules every description as to the seriousness of parliamentarians. I think it is a humiliation of parliamentarians that you introduce a two-class society into this House, that those who belong to a trade union or a representative of interests have a different role for you than the parliamentarians of the other group, who do not belong to those representations of interest. I would just like to remind you that Mr Klubobmann Khol in the presidency, when we talked about the fact that we wanted to have this budget accompanying law on the agenda, meant that it had to be between committee and plenary at least a day in order to allow further consideration to be given to whether everything was also put in place. At the time, the opposition said that it was a prelude to this committee so soon before the parliamentary negotiations in this House. In the Committee's view, the liberals should not meet until yesterday. You, Mr Khol, said that there must be at least one day between them. That would correspond to the seriosity of the template. What have we experienced now? . It was true that you interrupted the committee whenever you wanted, that we must be dictated from the outside, which majority will come to pass, and that you will not only qualify the committee, but also this Assembly as a farce, by stating in detail what will be decided here. Committees are not just a formal act, but committees have a consultative role if you want to take this Parliament seriously. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum, on the Greens and on Members of the Liberals.]] What you have done was not an act of honesty, as you might say – because you were so honest, admitting that the social partners and the trade unions have a greater role for you than Parliament – but rather it has been a kind of outing to demonstrate that you do not really need Parliament at all. If you continue to do so, I must say that you no longer have moral qualifications, even to ward off those attempts to undermine which are constantly free. That is what makes us concerned that you measure by two measures. We all agree that this Parliament is worthy of improvement that Parliamentaryism and the rules of the game are worthy of improvement. I'm just wondering if you're still capable of improving. I'm worried. I therefore ask you not to use your two-thirds majority as an instrument of power, and to say that according to the Rules of Procedure, it is possible to abandon the 24-hour term of departure and to negotiate things which were discussed in the Committee on Budgets yesterday evening, but to use your two-thirds majority alone in democratic responsibility. Such a democratic responsibility would prohibit you from consulting this budget accompanying law today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e2925	The next speaker is Dr. Kostelka. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e2947	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mrs Schmidt, your excitement is artificial, it is inappropriate and a part of a well-calculated media production, Mrs President-in-Office of the Council. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intercom calls at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have put this government proposal into the house weeks ago and, moreover, in the Presidency, we have agreed that you will receive the documents at your request hours before the Committee's deliberations. We have complied with this agreement with point and indent. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's not true!]] First of all: They complain that there have been committee meetings this week. Ladies and gentlemen! You all know this working calendar. [[The speaker shows him.]] On the back of this working calendar, the sentence is easy to read for each Member: "The Parliament's Directorate points out that in those weeks when the National Council's plenary session is held", i.e. in a week like this, "committee meetings can, if necessary, be held without expressing this in the planned work plan." So this is proof, ladies and gentlemen, that you had to know and know that there could be committee meetings this week. [[Intercom calls at the Liberal Forum.]] Second point: It has been partially transmitted to you for the Social Committee, including for the Financial Committee on Friday, on Monday this week. All you have been so excited about now, Madam President Schmidt, that it has been announced to you just before the committee, is a determination of this size in both committees. [[The speaker shows them.]] This is the valorization provision, that and not anymore. If a parliamentarian gets it two hours before the committee, ladies and gentlemen, I think he can look at it very well and evaluate it accordingly. [[Abg. Böhacker: That's not true! This is the untruth!]] Ladies and gentlemen! What I said at the outset is also in the foreground for me at the end of my remarks. Mrs Schmidt, Mrs Petrovic and Mr Head of Parliament, no one of you has called me yesterday or today and has made my group aware of your concerns. The moment the spotlight of the TV cameras shines here, you will find fundamental parliamentary concerns. - That's about your mental attitude.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e3026	The next speaker with the same speaking time is Member's power. Chief. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e3047	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kostelka has just made the inadequate attempt to deal with things that have not been discussed at all, and, secondly, he has once again demonstrated to me clearly and clearly that with his handshake quality it is not even as far as his hand is concerned. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] For, Mr Kostelka, you should not forget that the numbers of faxes and hours appear to us on the reports and requests submitted to us. This is verifiable for every Austrian and every Austrian, since a fax is known to be a document and the figures on it, including the hours, can be found. I simply think it foolish, Mr Kostelka, if you believe that you can lie to the Austrians in front of the public in front of running cameras. [[Intervocations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I'm saying that in this drastic form...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e3079	Deputies! Please do not start with such terminology at an early stage and do not maintain it in the course of the session!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e3095	Mr Kostelka! There is no other expression of such a procedure. You know, of course, that the last requests were made yesterday during the current session. You know, of course, Mr Kostelka, that the applications submitted do not include exclusively the valorizations, but, of course, other corrections. You know, of course, Mr Kostelka, that the examples of the calculations you have brought into the meeting here are to be understood. You know, of course, that the opposition parties do not have, as you do, a device of several hundred officials who have or can carry out the calculations for them, so that in the late evenings we depend on our own resources and our own possibilities, which means that the review of the proposed calculations, the deductions, the valorizations, the mitigations is only possible over time. You know, Mr Kostelka, that you were also wrong when you said that I made the request for interruption in the parallel Social Committee, which your colleague Reitsamer did not comply with, because the majority, namely the ÖVP and the Social Democrats, came against a break. You know of course, Mr Kostelka, that your arguments are empty here. You have tried what you always try to do: to set up a paravent in front of the public in order to distract you from your mistakes and from your failure to comply with agreements. Mr Kostelka! We liberals will not tolerate this and will today take the opportunity to show how it actually happened. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I'm going to give my colleague Schmidt the right to: We Liberals have asked for the Tuesday sitting instead of Monday because we knew that at the time of the convened session the amendments could not yet be tabled only because of the preliminary discussions in the remaining bodies, because we knew quite well that the convocation for Monday is simply and simply a desavowing of the parliamentary committees that nothing else will be done but to be called up, postponed, called back and postponed. We wanted to spare this Parliament this mourning game of self-absorbing the parliamentary bodies of this Republic. So we did not ask the sitting for Tuesday because we wanted to shorten the period between the negotiations in committee and the introduction of the appropriate proposals here in plenary, but because we knew, on the basis of the procedure, of the negotiating skills and of the negotiating procedure, that the final amendments will not yet be available on Monday, but will only come on Tuesday. Everyone in this Republic who has been involved in the negotiation process and in the schedules available on the weekend must know that. I therefore believe, Mr Kostelka and Mr Khol, that you have made a significant contribution to displeasing Parliament and to qualifying the committees for voting machines. And you will have the responsibility to bear in public, gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e3161	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Khol. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e3182	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I know that the opposition parties would probably have preferred it if the government parties and the social partners had not agreed on a pension reform. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Of course this is the reason; I want to explain that. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Peter.]] We have been negotiating a pension reform for over two years, and everyone in this country knows that pensions have to be secured for the next millennium. I believe that people in this country also know that it is necessary to ensure the working and economic location of our Republic to carry out fundamental reforms in the economic and social sphere in agreement with workers' representatives. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the Freeman and the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I recognize that we have had to make the peaceful life of the business committees under the pressure of negotiations more efficient. [[Abg. Dr Schmidt: This is a scandal you say! That's cynicism!]] Of course we had to agree with the social partners in negotiations, and we have complied with point and paragraph of the Rules of Procedure up to the last Jota. [[Abg. Wabl: Mr Colleague! Why do you still have to mock Parliament? It is enough that you are unable to negotiate!]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is reasonable for you in the committees that an amendment of this quality, which is understandable to everyone, which determines that valorization is carried out by regulations of the Federal Government, is introduced and voted on in the Committee. This is done in hundreds of committees every day, and this is also appropriate and correct in this case. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! Perhaps what you are planning is not equally understandable for the spectators in this country, but for us the maneuver is clear: They want to achieve the removal of the pension reform from today's agenda on Rules of Procedure. That would mean that we can no longer decide on them this year and that the budget that we can consult in plenary next week would not have an objective basis. They simply want to prevent the pension reform that we urgently need in this way. And we won't let that happen! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Schmidt.]] We have been negotiating for a long time; it has been difficult negotiations. The negotiations have resulted, and this result is in the interests of the stability of our home country, in the interests of the safety of the pensions of the citizens who are deserved, and we will fight for the timely implementation of this pension reform by our constitutional majority.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e3280	Next, Mrs. Dr. Petrovic will speak. - Please. Same time of speech.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e3336	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Recent words have now been used by the government’s club members. They spoke of a media production. I would like to suggest to you that a single media production has been carried out not only on the part of the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, but also on the trade unions since the summer. The fact that this House and its committees are still being accused of this is the bulwark on the i, which really makes the scandal complete. In the early summer, when the results of Rust were announced, it said: We're going through this, so the trade unions can say or do what they want! – We felt that was not right at the time, we were interested in social peace in Austria, but we did not believe that it really did. You said: We're going through this! The maker climate has stood in front of the cameras and has staged itself medially. But then at night – yesterday, yesterday – very small distance has been removed from this process again. Then there were wild telephone calls back and forth, and in the President's office it was also about whether we, the opposition parties, would have the requests even two hours before the committee meetings. I do not think the Austrian people will understand that Members of this House must fight to have the full texts two hours before. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: That was your suggestion! You've proposed an hour, we've increased to two!]] Mr Kostelka! We don't even have them now. What you said here is wrong. With regard to civil servants' pensions, as far as the contributions are concerned, we now have a substantial change in second reading. We do not have these texts, even now, although the debate has already begun. And this is really a groundlessness from a chancellor who arrived in the summer and said: We present a century-long work, thus safeguarding the rights of the Austrian population! – Not even now this House has the full text of the reform, and that is a groundlessness! [[Congratulations on the Greens, the Freeman and the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: You speak differently in the Presidential!]] Secondly, It is not just about the rights of the opposition, it is not just about parliamentarianism. It is true all over the world that trade unions, the social partners, of course, are involved in negotiations. The Greens are in favour of this. Only: If you do not even take into account suggestions, requests from the opposition, which relate to those groups of people who are not represented in the social partners, then you do not only ignore this House, but also many parts of the Austrian population. I ask you: What about the interests of young people in this country? What about school leavers and exitrs? What about the students? – They were not represented by anyone. And those who have demanded that you give guarantees for youth have not been heard in these committees, their applications have not been properly dealt with. What motivation should the Austrian young people have to contribute to a system at all, if they are obviously unable to bring their ideas into the negotiations through their people's representatives? The same is true of those in employment today, especially those young people who are not yet close to the pension. What is the context of labour market policy when you continue to eliminate active labour market policies? How should a system work if no provision is made for it? Thirdly, It also affects the old people, namely those who are poor. You have now decided to cover the loss. I ask you: What does someone have to lose who has a pension of not even 10,000 s? Is it really appropriate to say: They lose only 1 percent!Unknown term type: "%s".? [[Call the ÖVP:Null!]] Do you think that someone who has a pension of not even 10,000 s has anything to lose? I think we should give them something and not talk about how little we take away from them.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e3407	I would ask you to keep the speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e3430	All these groups were not represented in these deliberations. And all those who with their two-thirds majority now decide on a Husch-Pusch-Novelle take their rights.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e3462	Before we talk anxiously about terminology afterwards in the presidential session, I ask you to consider this right now. The next step is Mr Kier's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e3487	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I am very concerned about what has been said in this debate on the subject so far. Mr Kostelka has either argued against better knowledge or completely lost the overview. In this context, I should like to say that I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report and for his excellent report. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Yes!]] [[Call to the liberals: Not even!]] "Maybe," I say; neither. These Valorisation provisions, which were obviously a problem in the ASVG area, were not on the table until the last time, since the general view was that the matter should be dealt with differently in the ASVG. That's not two hours before! – Point 1. Point 2: In § 44 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure shall state that discussions may take place 24 hours after the Committee's report has been submitted. . A copy of the Committee's report has been made available to the clubs today at 8.30 p.m. and we now have 9.30 a.m., just one hour before. The Rules of Procedure are not a jux, as Mr Khol has said, and there are no Rules of Procedure, if you think that 24 hours is a short but important deadline. It is only because it is better for you to fit into your comfortable pre-scheduled procedures that, in the absence of the Rules of Procedure, the two-thirds majority should be used as an emergency instrument, as a hammer, so that the opposition parties do not have the opportunity to argue the matter a little better. However, the Members of your group – not all of them in the Committee, Mr Khol – do not have the opportunity to study the Committee's report in advance. Or do you want to tell us that those Members of this House who are not members of the respective committees do not need these 24 hours? Is it true that an hour after the Committee's report has been presented, in your group, the issue of orders has already taken place, so that everyone knows how to vote without being able to read the Committee's report? – The 24 hours are here, not only for the Members who have negotiated in the Committee, but also for everyone else. That is why this delay is important. If you think that all the other Members of your group have taken note of the Committee's report quite unchecked that, without having studied it, they will have to stand up here if your group so wishes, if you demonstrate to us so clearly that you will use the force of clubs even if people do not even know what they are voting on, then, Mr Khol and Mr Kostelka, you will destroy a good part of parliamentaryism. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] As Mr Khol here speaks of the 'beautiful life' of the Rules of Procedure, I must say the following: I do not know where you live, Mr Khol, but to consider a 24-hour frist as contemplative in a matter that you yourself call a centenary matter is not only cynical, but also ignorant! That's what I'm saying in all clarity.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e3535	Deputies! I did not allow parliamentarians personally to insult others. It's not a clubman "ignorant", even if you're different from him.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e3551	Then I say, "Unknowing." - Is that better? That's the same thing. Then Mr Klubobmann Khol is not knowledgeable enough – I wanted to express that. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: (in the direction of President Dr. Fischer) You are giving us the speeches! Best of all, you're giving us the speeches!]] He then lacks the necessary knowledge of the Rules of Procedure. As Mr Kostelka here thinks that half a page is simple, I say to you: Half the page is simple, but you have to read it several times, and there is also a formula below it, and this formula is mathematically illogical. This is an algorithm, Mr Kostelka, which is illogical. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Forgive us for overcoming you!]] It may be a bit too steep for you to argue, but you could have allowed the Members of your group, who were not in committee, to enjoy this slightly unusual algorithm. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Meisinger]] Mr Hoof has already pointed out this. The fact that spelling errors, sentence errors, non-number errors are included in the documents is for the Only the tummy on the i.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e3614	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e3635	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Klubobmann Khol! You have spoken about the performance of the Committee's work and you have said that what you should have done yesterday and yesterday in the Committees would be a work that is good for you. Mr. Klubobmann Khol! If it were not so sad, you would really have to break out of it in gay laughter! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Try it once!]] It's incredible what you call performance! In their presentation, it is obvious that if the members of the Committee are gathered at a meeting and the members of the Financial Committee are then postponed four, five or six times without a debate on the subject. In their presentation, it is obvious that if, as yesterday evening, a meeting takes place and the representatives of the government parties try to raise their votes somehow, only so that the Committee does not collapse into saying something that has nothing to do with the matter, since each Member, each member of the Government Party knows that something else is being negotiated in the background. They stand in the committee's room at the back and go from one side to the other with the paper and exchange one matter after another. Mr Khol! They presented the application for valorization earlier. [[The speaker shows them.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Not that one!]] That alone is not the problem. There is a second request concerning the reduction of health insurance contributions for traders, Mr Khol. This is bitter, namely, that at the same time as you are preparing a budget, you are saying that it is a matter of economy and economy that we cannot afford pensions that we can no longer make up for employment: This does not matter, we reduce health insurance contributions for traders. – Just thumb times pi, cost it what it wants. We do not know if this is justified, we do not know if it makes sense, but the ÖVP believes that a result must also be achieved in the exchange against the valorization regime. Mr Khol! I can congratulate you. The ÖVP has always been more skilled when negotiating than the SPÖ, but the thing has not served you well! We, Mr Khol, are not disturbed by the fact that on Monday and Tuesday the Financial Committee and the Social Committee should have met to discuss the matter. We would also be happy to advise on Saturday and Sunday; you can have this from us when it comes to a solidarity and sustainable pension reform. But I'm saying, That's not exactly what you've achieved! That's exactly what you didn't want to achieve! [[Congratulations to the Greens and Members of the Liberal Forum.]] We, the Greens, are always in favour of it – in which I may distinguish myself from some others – that negotiations will be held by the last minute, including with the trade unions, including with all the other interested parties. But one thing has already been said to you at this point: Mr Khol! You may have negotiated with the trade unions, but you did not negotiate with the women's people's representatives. You know, it's a call in the house. Here in this House are 700 000 signatures of persons demanding an independent retirement pension for women. Where is the implementation of this claim included in this pension package? Can you say, Mr Khol, that we are negotiating not only with the trade unions and all the others, but also with a three-quarters of a million people who have made the effort to give their signature because they believe that certain things are not taken into account in the pension reform? [[Congratulations to the Greens and Members of the Liberal Forum.]] Mr Khol! In the context of this supposedly sustainable pension reform, where was the subject ever raised by the trade unions at the outset: that it is not only about pensions, but also about employment, that it is also about the boys? Where can this be found again in this budget, in this pension reform? – Nothing can be found! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] No action has been taken, on the contrary, it has been completely counterproductive! That is why we Greens believe that it is not only important to continue discussing – it really does not matter that this reform be adopted here and today; a reform that is not a reform – but also that the voices of all those who have not been heard at this pension debate – the boys, the women, the elderly, the unemployed –...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e3701	I would ask you to pay attention to the speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e3722	... take note of the fact that not only a sustainable pension reform, but also a sustainable employment policy will be implemented.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e3752	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Schweitzer. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e3774	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kostelka once again wanted to try to give the public the impression that this pension reform had really been prepared seriously. Mr Kostelka! This "big throw" – dubiously called by my colleague – that brings a change to the next millennium and thus solves all the problems was not prepared serially! All that has already been done in this House has been far surpassed when it comes to the negotiations on this pension reform. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We have had three committee days with a total of five interruptions, and during this time none of the Members knew what to negotiate. It was not clear until the last second what is to be decided! If you say that we had already received the amendments two hours before, that is simply not true. That's where you say the untruth! The amendment has arrived, and it has been voted on immediately thereafter. That's how it happened yesterday! They were not even at the committee meeting, I was there and can therefore say what it was like! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: With your consent!]] It is sad how the elected representatives of the government parties had to practice in the Filibusters, and that is more bad than right. For hours they have filibustered and have not known what to vote on. Mr Kostelka! It is sad to see how your Members suffer from such unscrupulous practices! Again and again they have looked at the door and waited for it to finally rise and the desired amendment proposal to which one has been doctored. Again and again, turning to the door and the question: Let them finally come, we no longer know what we should say, and we do not know what we will vote on; we only know that we must agree. That was all the things that the Members of your political groups actually knew at this time: We have to agree, no matter what comes in. We do not know, but we agree! – This is how the "serious procedure" can be described in important legislative projects in this House, ladies and gentlemen! And then, Mr President, at the committee meeting and in front of the current camera of the big throw, of a completely new reform, of a change that reaches the next millennium! [[Abg. Dr. stupid: There was no camera!]] Your words yesterday evening, 7.30 p.m., my colleague. If you want us, you really want to make the public believe that quality work can be done under such circumstances, Mr President.Unknown term type: "%s".? You don't believe that! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Even the representatives of the government parties, who have once again been embarrassed by the real constitution, already know that under such chaotic circumstances nothing is going to happen. Mr Posch has already informed the public yesterday via press release that the winners are the court councils who are now 50 and more years old, and the losers are all the boys who, through this completely unsuccessful reform, come to the fore on several occasions. Even Mr Posch recognized this last night, and I highly expect him that he has also informed the public accordingly. Flickwerk was produced, which lets all come to the hand kiss, says Posch. But I do not need colleagues Posch as witnesses, there is a much more unsuspecting one, your expert Rürup. As what did Professor Rürup mention this reform yesterday evening and today in the "Morgenjournal"? He said that this system should have brought 20 percent, Mr President. What's left is as much as 3 percent. 17 percent you've been negotiating away! You're talking about a big throw, a century reform, even though you've renegotiated 17 percent? That is a pitiful result! And you trust the public with that? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] This reform is most suitable for short-term budget relief. Your creative qualities and, above all, those of the German Chancellor's climate cannot be recognized once again if we look at this reform, Mr. Cott stupid! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Conclusion: The court councils Dohr and Neugebauer and many official politicians have judged it here again. The losers are the boys, the losers are the women, the losers are the disabled. They have to pay the tokens for this really completely misguided reflex. Ladies and gentlemen! My clubman Dr. Haider will present you with a real reform today. Instead of system change...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e3854	I would ask you to pay attention to the speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e3875	Instead of agreeing to a change of system according to a liberal proposal, you will stick to the result of this pitiful system cosmetics.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e3902	The next speaker is Mr Dr Höchtl. He's got the floor. Same time of speech.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e3924	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I believe that the public has a right to know how some representatives of the opposition parties in the Committee have actually led the debate on such a fundamental reform of pension rights. To get out of here today and say that the poor opposition parties would not be in good time, but to take a position in the committee that is diametrically opposed, deserves to be shown and not to be kept secret from the public – and I will do so! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Of course, negotiations on such sensitive matter are not easy and take a lot of time because we do not go over it, but talk to those concerned. But then, when the results and amendments were submitted to the Committee to be discussed, two persons from the Freedom Party, namely on Monday evening in the Financial Committee, complained that they had no time to study the individual applications, to consider the consequences, to calculate and to present the effects. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: When did the last request come?]] Wait! [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: When did the last request come?]] Mr Schweitzer! I have to say this: As soon as the argument that there was not enough time was put forward and we said, we are discussing each of these proposals as intensively as possible, Mr Graf said: [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: When did the last request come?]] End of debate, vote! – Ladies and gentlemen, very much! Is that serious? I have appealed to the opposition that I should like to know at last what their views on these substantial proposals are. No, no, no, A second time the Freedom Party has gone here and has made a request for the end of the debate. That is to say, the representatives of the Liberal Party have not at all been interested in discussing what pensions should look like in the future, but today they have tried to perform a spectacle here. And that must be said to the public! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In my opinion, this is an insatiable behaviour, a behaviour which shows that you are unable to bear responsibility. We, as government parties, are invited to address the problems ahead to meet the challenges facing us. We are not here to subtract a show, but we want to offer solutions. We would like to prove this with this procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e3998	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Stadler. He's got the floor. Same time of speech.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e4019	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr President, I now ask you to be careful: The indolent and ignorant – I emphasize: indolent and ignorant! – Klubobmann Kostelka today complained larmoyant – to use a third foreign word – that this objection debate was a media production. Do you know, Mr Kostelka, what a media production was? – Your lubrication comedies of the past few weeks were a media production, and last class, I'm telling you, last class! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] What you have done here, what puppet theatre you have promised this House by having the Members of your political groups to give filibuster's speeches, until finally a presentation came into the house, Mr Höchtl, that was unbearable! Mr Höchtl – where did he go now? – that is why Mr Graf asked: Let us finally vote and conclude with this puppet theatre, which took place yesterday and during the previous committee meetings. That was your lubricating comedy, Mr Kostelka. These were not our people, these are your people, that was your lubrication comedy, your trill pipes it was that caused a medial staging of this matter. So you have no reason to be larmoyant, you have reason to notice that you have become broken. Mrs Schmidt! You are quite right, Mrs Petrovic, you are right: The two gentlemen have become broken. Packy! I invite you to be more careful in the future when you go back to committee dates for the reigns. I knew what was going to happen here. I have predicted that they will not be presented by Tuesday. That is why the Committee did not have to discuss anything. That is why the two clubmen, the two Siamese twins, like the chickens, want to lay the eggs, in the hope that these eggs will soon be delivered to the house, because they still had no template at half past eight o'clock, ladies and gentlemen. That was a lubrication comedy you've delivered! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Probes of your failure are not only Professor Rürup, who spoke about your failure of planned 20 percent savings down to 3 percent yesterday evening before the media audience of the ORF. What is left, Mr Family Minister, of your Rust decisions, of the decisions of the Neusiedler See? [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: Substantial!]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] Substantial 3 percent are left! That you don't generate! This is a waste of time, Mr Minister, no longer and no less! After all, you are a minister of residual exploitation: 3 percent of 20 percent you have agreed to in Rust. They are doctors on an outdated system that is no longer sustainable and are not willing to negotiate future-oriented systems as they have proposed to the liberals for 13 years, ladies and gentlemen of the residual exploitation. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: 13 years ago, the liberals were in the government!]] You've been wasting 13 years! For 13 years we have been demanding that we change to a three-pillar model, as Switzerland has done, as Holland has done. You've taken 13 years, and you've missed the last chance last night. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: 13 years ago you were in the government!]] 13 years old, Mr Schwarzenberger, that is so much plus so much that you can tell it. [[the speaker first holds both hands, then three fingers in height]] [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the liberals.]] 13 years So you've taken care of it, 13 years you've been playing the future of the Austrians, and last night you missed the last chance after you came into the house with a "restl recycling proposal". Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Posch is the next witness. We will look today at how he will vote, whether he means what he announces in press releases, even when voting. Or are you also one of those puppets that hang on the threads of Mr Kostelka and Mr Khol, which the two gentlemen order you to do? Is that so? I already have the suspicion that this is the case. We'll see it in a few minutes. They want to maintain a system of privileges. They want to maintain a system of protected areas. They want to commit a fraud on today's contributors, but for this fraud to the contributors of today and today's youth, we do not give ourselves liberals!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e4125	Mr Stadler, I would like to call for an order for the term "debt". [[Abg. May. Stadler: Thank you very much!]] Pleased to meet Mr Deputies. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Please, ladies and gentlemen, calm down! I did not give a call for order for the word "smart comedy" because everyone should understand Parliament as he feels in his role. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You will still be allowed to tell the truth!]] Mr Dr. Novotny came to speak.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e4183	Mr President. High house!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e4199	And, of course, the admonition also applies to the next speaker: to try to be a tone relevant to Parliament. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e4214	I hope, Mr President, that this reminder is not necessary in my case. Mr President. High house! In view of the fact that the Rules of Procedure do not allow for an actual correction, I have spoken with regard to Mr Schweitzer's comments. It said that at the meeting of the Financial Committee yesterday the amendment proposal could not be studied for two hours. This is formally correct, but actually – listen once! – misleading. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals]] I just wanted to say that. We had an amendment which affected the dynamization, and it consisted of a total of three sets. I've been an obscene... [[Intrusions of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] Please listen! As the chairman of the Committee on Finance, I asked the Members of all the political groups – and I hope you were there at the time – whether an interruption would be desired to study this amendment. I have offered this, but it has not been considered necessary by all political groups. That means you said yourself, we need... [[Abg. Böhacker: A quarter of an hour you wanted to interrupt, not two hours! This is now the untruth!]] Mr President, you could have stopped for two hours. I offered you this. [[Abg. Böhacker: This is the untruth! He says the untruth again!]] You yourself said: Let's go on. That's a fact, and I'd like to make that clear. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Contradict with the liberals.]] With the approval of the opposition, it was explicitly – and all those who were there are witnesses – waived of interruption. [[Abg. Böhacker: A quarter of an hour! Unheard of!]] Maybe now you've gotten some problems in your club. I'm sorry for you. But I should like to point out that I am doing the right thing in this Committee on Finance, that I will continue to conduct it correctly, and I believe that we are by far the best in doing so.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e4303	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Stoisits. - Here you go. Same time of speech.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e4324	Dobro jutro, poštovane lady i gospodo! Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is now being discussed for an hour whether there would have been a need to interrupt the sitting, whether there has actually been enough time to give the Members of this House the opportunity to read amendments to all the political groups. Ladies and gentlemen! I have been in one of these two committees for hours and, if you so wish, I am authentic witness to the proceedings, and I now tell you, given the approaching or threatening end of this process, that this is absolutely not at the heart of the question today. Today – and this is what the Austrians are interested – is about the substance of this so-called pension reform. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! As a member of the opposition, I join all my colleagues in saying that Parliamentaryism is being disgracefully dealt with here. This, ladies and gentlemen, is not a problem of opposition, it is a problem of coalition groups, because the citizens of this country are taking a picture of how Parliament itself is getting rid of its possibilities. As a critic of the results of this so-called reform, I say to you as a member of the opposition, who did not see himself involved accordingly and felt that the most important points of what was announced – not only by the Federal Government, but also partly by the social partners – are not present today at the heart and as a result here. Mr President of the Council! Mr President Nürnberger! Of course, the Greens believe that, on such essential issues as pension reform, the trade union, which must not only be involved with the social partners, are, logically, essential negotiating partners, because they represent interests. And they were also involved until the last second – in contrast to the opposition, which in no phase of these negotiations has been involved since Rust in any form in that which concerns all Austrians, not only those who choose the Reds and the Blacks, but also those who choose the Free, Greens and Liberals. That's it – and then I join Mrs. Dr. Schmidt – what's being trodden with feet to say, placardively: The interests of groups that did not have the opportunity at all to express their interests and to enter into negotiations will be undermined. Mr Oellinger has already said this: Who in this long negotiation process – in Parliament could not do so because, as the Committee negotiations have done here, has already been presented enough – represented the interests of young people who are young adults? Who has represented the interests of women – and I do not mean just the desire for women’s people – who are the sufferers of this outcome? Who, then, has examined the employment aspect, with which I give you a 100% right, that it is important? Who checked the success of your demands? That's what's going on here now. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Nürnberger and Mr Maderthaner. That is why we think it is not an hour to decide on these agreements on the spot, as Mr Khol has said. [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] Khol spoke of "performance-friendly design of the Rules of Procedure". You have to imagine that! What is the "performance-oriented design of the Rules of Procedure" in his eyes? Does he understand that 24 hours of milling is not taken into account that his own Members are allowed to be filibusters in the committees? I have already done so, ladies and gentlemen, I too have already filibustered in committees. You thought of me with mockery and pranks when I tried that. And what are you doing? If necessary, the coalition may do so unpunished. Yes, you still praise yourself if you reach out to those means that are totally pomped at the opposition. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, on the quality of the Committee's deliberations.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e4370	Please, as far as possible, just the last one.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e4387	The last one: Proposals of the opposition, such as the further privilege of politicians in connection with this pension reform, are – and the Greens have tabled these proposals – not only from any coalition member...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e4405	Please note the speaking time!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e4421	... has been included in a word notice. To your own privileges!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e4461	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Peter. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e4483	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! This debate, which has been requested by the opposition parties of this Parliament, is a call, a call by Members who repeatedly want to draw attention to the fact that the government of this Parliament is degrading to the voting machinery. Ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats! Ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party! You too are elected representatives in this House, and Parliament is not a voting machine, but there is a certain culture in parliamentary democracies, how to deal with Causen, how to deal with matters. I'll tell you how it's usual. It is common practice that the government which has the executive power, the government power, sends out a draft government, a draft ministerial opinion. Then, of course, there are negotiations in the pre-parliamentary area, a variety of negotiations with representatives of interests. Then one day the government's decision will come to the Council of Ministers, and then, Ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party and the Social Democrats, Parliament is in favour. It is only then that you can assign something to Parliament if you have taken a decision in the Council of Ministers after the negotiations have been completed. Only then can you hand it over to Parliament, to the elected ladies and gentlemen, to the representatives of the people, and then to the committees, to discuss what is happening with the government template of the executive. Do you know what the sadness is? – You know very well that this is indeed the path of parliamentary democracy. The bad conscience is written to you in the faces. You know exactly how you stand by parliamentarianism and demolish Parliament into a voting machine. They do the following: They decide to do something unanimously in the government, in the collegiate body, and then the rage of the negotiations begins. And then guess It has been criticized to Parliament on a number of occasions. Then you have the forehead to show such papers. There are only five lines anyway, Mr Kostelka said, but that's all it is! Do you know, Mr Kostelka, what can be done in five lines? That can be a negotiation entirely tipping, which can be the total opposite of what was in it first. It does not make sense for a member of a committee, for a parliamentarian to read government documents at all today. It is even better to wait until the committees begin, so that 5 minutes after the Committee meeting, the usual ten to 20 pages amendment will be tabled, which will completely change what you have decided in the Government. – So it happens in many, many hundred negotiations. And Lord Höchtl comes out and shoots state-bearing mist grenades to distract him from his own inability. Ladies and gentlemen! This debate today could lead to a rethinking and lead back to parliamentary democracy in Austria and not to a neo-cooperatism in which Parliament is a voting machine. I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e4522	No further words are available. That is why the debate is closed. It is now necessary to vote on the objections. I ask those ladies and gentlemen of the House who want to take account of the objections, that is, those who want to take action to ensure that the 2. The item on the agenda, namely the report by the Committee on Budgets on the 1st reading. The 1997 Budgetary Accompanying Act, which is suspended from the agenda, gives a sign in this regard. – This is the minority. This will initially remain with the agenda which has been issued. I say 'at first' because, after the current hour, before entering the agenda, we will have to vote on whether a two-thirds majority will be removed from the deadline. That is the condition for this point to be finally negotiated. Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e4558	We're about to get to the current hour. She's got the subject: Future-oriented policy for our families
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e4580	The first mention is made by Mrs Rosemarie Bauer. Mrs Bauer has a speaking time of 10 minutes for reasons. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e4604	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I hope that all the emotions that have occurred here will be united in a positive sense and that everyone will now turn to the subject of family. As an Austrian People's Party, we have requested this present hour because we consider it important to discuss the value of the family in our society and in particular the family promotion and to discuss future changes. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Family policy has always been an important, indeed the most important part of our policy. We have always seen family policy as an independent part of politics and never as part of social policy. This brings substantial differences. Two things we have been fighting against for years, first against the fact that our tax legislation does not take into account the minimum existence of our children, which we otherwise approve of every adult. That is, the state has never referred to how many people actually have to live on this income when it comes to taxing income. We always felt this as blatant injustice and therefore demanded the exemption of the minimum existence of the children vehement. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] The statement of the Constitutional Court gives us the right. I believe that the issue of family life is not necessarily suitable for a discussion in which one can arouse envy and hatred between the poor and the rich, but I believe that one must look at the impact of Austrian family policy, which works well according to OECD figures. Here we have to say – in this way I come to the point of family promotion – that, of course, this is because of transfers, benefits in kind and also the effects of social legislation, because of different kinds of support. An essential requirement in this area has always been that we promote families with several children differently, so that every child is equally worth the same amount. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] There is a misconception both in the current debate and in the public opinion about who actually has most children. I have a chart here which shows that in that population group, which is to be attributed to the lowest incomes, most children are settled, in those in the middle incomes third, rather the two-child families and in the highest incomes the single-child families. [[the speaker places a desk with the title "Number of children in the respective income category" on the speaker's desk]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Do you also have a Taferl? You used to hate it!]] Of course, why not? Ladies and gentlemen! However, I would recommend to those who have been very active in family policy issues, including the issue of poor and rich, that we read the Wifo study, which shows exactly what it actually looks like in the field of vertical redistribution and what the FLAF resources are used. I should like to return briefly to the top, middle and lower incomes. The lower-income third in the financing of the family tax compensation fund accounts for about 15 percent, but receives 40 percent for this. The average third pays 30 percent and gets 34 percent, so it's also winners. The so-called rich – as some call them – are the highest third, 45 percent pay in the family tax compensation and receive benefits of only 26 percent. Here we see that there is very much a social compensation for family support. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Family support, however, is not only the promotion of the federal government. At this point, I would also like to thank those, especially the countries and communities, who are very active and imaginative, sometimes also very financially devoted to the families and who are spending money to support the families in addition. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I have said that there are two points of injustice against which we have fought. The second point in my speech has been removed since 1993. It always seemed unfair to us that, especially those women who are devoted to the education of children, who raise several children – if we assume that they are, and this is what we are doing, that children are not a private matter – and therefore, for the state and for our pension system – the current subject – something that has not been provided under the old system of old age. In other words, those who have done the most for the pension system have not received any actual old-age insurance from them. With the reckoning of child rearing times, we have succeeded in setting a milestone which, of course, also eliminates this injustice. The Group of the European People's Party and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats have always felt that this first measure from 1993 must, of course, be increased, i.e. the basis of assessment. That's what we'll decide on Friday. I am pleased and grateful to everyone that it has now been possible to raise this basis of assessment for the child training periods to the compensatory allowance rate and thus to evaluate what is particularly important, so that we can say at least once more more strongly and clearly a thank you to all those women who are raising children. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As a matter of fact, it is quite clear that even if the women who raise children are entitled to their own pension – many have not had one because they have not had a job in favour of the family at all – are of course limited in their working life, taking into account that they have family obligations. [[The speaker places another displayboard with the title "More children, less pension" on the speaker's desk.]] We can see very clearly that, with the increase in the number of children, pensions slip into the basement. We have achieved a balance here. That was the second point we wanted to make for justice. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Family policy is a bundle and a wide range of measures that our families need. I would therefore also like to address the new role of women who have brought about family changes. Qualified and flexible childcare so that our young parents, especially women, families and occupations, can combine more flexible working hours – not only part-time –, family-friendly facilities in the establishments, the return to working life – is a very serious point for women, as the exit from working life often means getting out for life planning as a whole – are still urgently problems to be solved. Despite advanced times, I would like to address another issue. Every person needs the family especially in two phases, namely in childhood and old age. And we wish every human being that they are available to him, especially in these phases. The family should be the cell of security, love and acceptance, the place where one can really recover and withdraw. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Therefore, it is our most intense command to ensure that family policies are as intact and as good as possible. We can only create framework conditions for the families themselves to have the opportunity to shape their lives with children in the way they imagine it. I mean, therefore, we must act together for these families with all our strength and all. Our best investment – the word "future" will be strained very often in the next few days – in the future the investment is in the families and in the children.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e4699	The Federal Minister has now received an opinion on the subject. The speaking time should also not exceed 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e4720	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Families represent a value. – The Constitutional Court has also said that. Families also have something to be worth to the state. Of course, our families are worth something to us, just as they represent an indispensable value for our society. Let me say, first of all, that Austria's family support in the form of transfers from the family tax compensation fund amounting to 55 billion schilling per year plus non-contributory co-insurance in health insurance and other more constitutes a significant success in family promotion and is also available internationally. But, ladies and gentlemen, the fact that Mrs Bauer, among other things, has tried to present to the House with the graphic from Mr Guger's Wifo study here means that in recent years a little sand has come to the fore, that, unfortunately, God's families, when the number of children is higher, tend to be at higher risk than or below the poverty line. I must tell you that a single earner family with two children is already at 26 per cent risk, i.e. more than every fourth single earner family with two children, on or below the poverty line; and with three children this risk increases and affects almost every other family. That's not good. This is a situation that has to worry us about family politics, a circumstance that we have to help out. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Now, if the Constitutional Court does not say in its last knowledge any more and no less than that what our families have to do with maintenance services for their children, i.e. a few thousand schillings per month, is to be tax-free that the Minister of Finance and the State with wage and income tax do not have to access them, then, the government and the House, gives us this opportunity to do something for the families, to tax the families, to put an active and positive emphasis on family policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It was also foreseeable that the Constitutional Court, that is, the supreme guardians of our constitution, would judge in this direction. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: That's not true!]] The so-called decision on interruption in June 1996 has already been clearly in this direction. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) You too will probably know this decision on interruption. Therefore, in the autumn of 1996, a year ago, I presented a model that should exempt these family maintenance obligations. We have said that the tax-free minimum of existence is to be guaranteed; 4 800 S net for each child's bar at hand. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: Also for yours and mine!]] This model should achieve this, and this goes in the direction of the Constitutional Courts' view. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] No, Mr Haselsteiner! You don't need that, I don't need it. Most of the people here in this House do not need that either. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: Then why are you doing it?]] But now let us talk briefly about the statement that you and others have repeatedly quoted in this House: The Constitutional Court wants to make the rich rich richer. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: The result!]] First of all: I do not accept the criticism expressed by the constitutional judges in the tone in which they were expressed. It was spoken of as being naughty. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That was not you, but these were representatives of another group. [[Abg. May. Stadler: The Coalition Partner! Call him! It was the coalition partner!]] If it were to be said here that there was a question of dishonesty, of political justice and of the fact that the constitutional judges would, in some way, judge in their own pockets, I think that the most necessary and unnecessary remarks were. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Haselsteiner! When it comes to whether this knowledge makes the rich rich richer, I mean that this is not just said. I suppose you've read the knowledge. The Constitutional Court expressly states that families whose income is clearly below the maximum social security base, which is therefore significantly less than 40 800 S per month, we say 30 000 S, are to be taxed. From your point of view, Mr Haselsteiner, these are the rich families in this country? - No, these are the middle class families. It's about this one, they have to be relieved. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Social staggering of transfers sounds so beautiful. Families with a gross income of 30 000 S and two children aged between 10 and 19 who may go to a primary or general higher school receive about 20 000 S net per month. These families receive about 3 800 S family transfer benefit per month consisting of family allowance and children's allowance. These 3 800 S, i.e. almost 20 percent of the net income of this family, do you want to take away these families via social staggering? – I say a clear no to that. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: But on the contrary, Minister!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: That's not serious what you're saying here! They're talking about better knowledge!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Whoever talks about social staggering may keep this in mind, for it cannot be a matter of not allowing only a few supermillionaires to benefit from this transfer performance. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: That's what you're doing!]] If you talk about it, talk about the middle class. Then it's about those families I just brought an example for. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It is now up to us to take note of this knowledge in the next few months and to take the opportunity to conform to it. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: It's up to us, not you! It's up to Parliament, not the government.]] Of course! What will be done other than complying with the Constitutional Court's knowledge? The Federal Government will develop a solution with a working group by February in order to increase tax justice. What do the Constitutional Courts tell us? – Austria’s families have paid too much tax year after year. It's not about new tax gifts, new transfers. It is only about not taking away in the future what families have so far paid too much tax – probably about 10 billion per year. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The knowledge of the constitutional judges does not go towards the super-rich. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: But also!]] The Chamber of Labour and the ÖGB also see this completely wrong. If one followed the idea, then I think the family allowance would be nothing more than a tax deduction. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: Not only, but also!]] Let me continue with this: Austria's families would spend their family transfers on nothing but that in future the Finance Ministers could continue to have access to family maintenance services by means of wage tax or income tax. - It can't be. Family aid is certainly not a tax benefit and not a tax equivalent, but, of course, an income equivalent. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Every child is worth a lot to us. The solution that this working group will also present to the House by February of the government and, subsequently, through the 1999 budget, will therefore provide for an identical performance for every child in Austria, at least I will propose. As far as families of small and medium-sized enterprises are concerned, we will, of course, be in line with the Constitutional Courts and bring them a tax relief. We will also have to pay the same tax relief for children of low-income families, because it is important to family politics because it is those families who are at or below the poverty line, namely the multi-child families, the single-parent and single-holder families. In this respect, it is important for family policy to do what one does for constitutional reasons also for the medium-sized families, so that in our country there is a little more justice to the families, in the sense that between those who do not have children and those who have children, besides all the joy and beauty in the loads, a little more justice is produced, horizontal distribution justice. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Dr. Khol]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e4952	The speaking times of all other speakers in the current hour are 5 minutes. Mrs. Dr. Sonja Moser came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e4977	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! The practice of dividing family and female policies in this country leads to great prejudices and fears of contact. We must also not be surprised if prejudices and qualifications take place in the run-up to studies and judgments. By way of route, family policy really has the charm of sovereign helplessness. However, this has now been done with the decision of the Constitutional Court, with what our Federal Minister has already presented in January, but also with the Tyrolean family policy, resulting in families with children between 18 and 24 years of age. For example, a month of life as well as with schoolchildren per year and per child should be supported accordingly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schaffenrath.]] I would also like to mention the Salzburg infant care model and, of course, the promotion of families in Upper and Lower Austria. Thanks be to the countries, thanks also to the communities! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner.]] [[Abg. Wabl: (an issue of the "Economic Sheet" high) You must also thank the Krenn for the holidays!]] I am now going to break the word justice for families on the tongue. For rental library readers, as our clubman always uses to say, simplified presented: Carrying parents pay too much taxes compared to childless ones, and some politicians have problems with it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Thus, we have been confirmed by our family politicians of the ÖVP, which we have known for a long time: Constitutional principles of equality are violated if parental expenses are also taxed for the maintenance of their children. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner]] [[Interlocutory calls from Dr. Hazelsteiner and Dr. Khol.]] The performance of families must not be confused with family support. The saying is, therefore, that at least half of the income required for children's maintenance must remain tax-free. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: Why half, why not 70 percent or three quarters?]] [[Interlocutory calls from Dr. Fekter and Rosemarie Bauer.]] [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: This is like a bazaar! Social partners' compromise!]] Children are not a matter of private life-design or even of personal risk, but gifts to society. The maintenance payments are also taken into account in the case of higher incomes not entirely, but only up to a certain maximum calculated according to the method of maintenance applied by the civil courts according to the percentage component, and are also subject to tax progression. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Family Foundation! Then we're protected!]] In many cases, therefore, maintenance payments will be taxed only to a lesser extent, not only for higher incomes, but also for those which are significantly below the social security ceiling. Pragmatically, who has children must use part of his income for the maintenance of his children. Thus, these amounts are not available to the taxable person at all and reduce his performance. It must pay income tax for this, at the full rate corresponding to the progressive rate. Maintenance and non-maintenance persons are treated equally in this way, although they differ considerably in their performance. Family aid and deductions do not equal this additional burden on the dependants, since in many cases the State takes away more from them by means of income tax than it returns them in the form of transfers. Keeping out of the maintenance load results in a comparatively higher load of maintenance parents. In view of the fact that our families alone have taxed around 50 billion schilling over the last five years, I have no abdominal pain if a constitutional reregulation of family tax brings justice to our families from 1.1.1999 onwards and thus about 10 billion schilling.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e5110	Mrs. Dr. Mertel came to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e5140	Mr President. Minister! High house! The only question that has dominated the family policy debate over the last few weeks was to what extent and in what form children are tax evasion posts. Minister! I agree with you that we must take note of the knowledge of the Constitutional Court and work on solutions. – The only interesting thing is that one and the same knowledge for each reader, probably depending on the point of view, leads to other results and pushes forward any other solutions. I am very excited when Mrs Bauer says that every child is of equal value to the ÖVP, because it reminds me that the SPÖ, when she influenced this sentence in the 1970s, has always encountered fierce resistance in the ÖVP. We have considered this very carefully and have always said this in the stage of the withdrawals. Unfortunately, the sentence is no longer true now, although this is a concern for us. – Suddenly the ÖVP took over him! But I'll leave you the sentence and I'll be happy to join you. So much for the sentence, every child is worth as much to us. We support this. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Very good! Very good!]] Mrs Fekter! You explore the situation as often as you do! The sentence comes from the SPÖ. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wabl.]] Minister! Mrs. Bauer! Another word about your statement that one should not criticize a constitutional judge is that it is wrong. [[Interlocutory calls from Dr. Fekter and Wabl.]] I do not criticise the constitutional judges, but I quote "News" where the constitutional lawyer Mayer, who is undoubtedly a recognized size in constitutional law, simply says that the Constitutional Court has expressed itself politically and thus extended its scope. It's a political decision! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: We know Mr. Mayer! We know that!]] So much to the Constitutional Court. I also recommend that you read the article in the "trend" that the knowledge is a scandal. We Social Democrats see family policies more comprehensively. In our view, this includes social, health and education aspects, but also emancipatory concerns of women. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and representatives of the Liberal Forum.]] Mrs. Bauer! Social aspects do not mean social policy for us, but the social approach must be strengthened. Family policy cannot be reduced to fiscal discussion alone. When it comes to the future of our families, we, as responsible politicians, must answer some questions that arise in this context. This includes the question of whether the interests and rights of our children are sufficiently taken into account in this discussion and whether these children also have a right to qualified care outside the family. [[Abg. Wabl: Of course!]] It is also about educational and educational approaches and the question of whether our young people are in a position to start a family. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ, the Greens and Members of the Liberal Forum]] In addition to the financial aspect, it also raises the question of the design of life and the framework conditions that we create for them, for example whether housing can be purchased at affordable prices, or whether work and family can be brought into a hat. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haller]] We must also find answers to the question of how we can improve the situation of women in the working world. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I only call the principle "Equal pay for equivalent work". Unequal pay also has consequences, the working hours have consequences, the return to work of women. [[Abg. Steibl: The Minister of Social Affairs can become active there!]] Don't you agree? Education policy is also part of family policy. We have an extensive instrument for family benefits, and we are at the forefront of this international comparison. But in order to ensure the future of families – and the goal is perhaps the common, the way and the thinking about it – we need help for the start-up phases of the young families and a strengthening of the social element, such as a supplement to family support for low-income single parents, the granting of benefits in kind, the safeguarding of children's leave and schoolbooks. [[Abg. Wabl: Why school leave? Where are the student free rides? Where did they disappear?]] We must also be aware that there is a disadvantaged group of students in the federal states, namely those who are not resident in the school resort. We must give them a return home aid. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We need to further develop childcare sites consistently. Family policy also includes the situation of older people.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e5269	Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e5287	Above all, we need a structural reform and a family burden compensation, as well as a broadening of the funding base, i.e. the conversion from current wage-based financing to a value-added tax. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr President. We are therefore not concerned solely with correcting one or more tax laws, but with introducing decisive measures to help families and, above all, children in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e5331	Mrs Haller's next speech. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e5353	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! After the fairy tale of Mrs Bauer and Mrs Moser, I think it will be up to me to put things in the right light in the field of Austrian family policy. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: Jessas, no!]] [[Abg. Wabl: Telling a Sage?]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Krampustag!]] [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: She has to laugh herself!]] I absolutely agree with the current hour under the title "Future-oriented Family Policy". But in view of the hypocritical activism with which the ÖVP is addressing this issue, with Badges, with a young ÖVP distributing before Parliament's entrances, with a table by Mrs Bauer, I wonder whether the ÖVP is in government or not. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: "Lobby for children"!]] In itself, the means required by the opposition parties are the means. For me, this activism only shows the bad conscience of the ÖVP and confirms that it has failed in family policy. The facts are all about this. I recall that among ÖVP family ministers billions of family funds have been flown into foreign pots. Saving packages – you have the responsibility, Mr. Federal Minister – cut family benefits by 20 percent. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: That's not true!]] Of course that's right. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: Calculate this!]] We have already documented this in 1996. [[The speaker shall keep an issue of a publication of the parliamentary club of freedom.]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: Do you also have a folder?]] He has not been contradicted. Federal Minister! The budget in the family sector, which you presented for 1998, confirms exactly this 20% reduction. I'd like to break this a little bit on my tongue. The reduction or freezing of family allowances has cost families 5.2 billion schilling, the freezing of children's deposits 0.8 billion, the withdrawal of the birth allowance 1.25 billion, the reduction of the leave period and the freezing of the karenz fee 4 billion, the recovery of the fathers 0.6, the retention of children's leave and schoolbooks... [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: You cannot call this a reduction!]] I know, Mr Family Minister, this is very unpleasant for you. This is a loss of achievements that the families once had and that you, an ÖVP minister, have taken away from them. You can't hide that. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Minister! The fact is that in a year's time, no family committee has taken place. By this you can see how "severe" you take family policy. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: Don't vote!]] Of course! What has happened to your full - souled announcements, such as those of the Federal Institute? [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: It was one in the spring!]] No, it wasn't a family committee. Since November and December last year, there have been four liberal applications which have not been dealt with in the Family Committee. [[Federal Minister Dr Bartenstein: But there has been a committee!]] No, no, no, [[Federal Minister Dr Bartenstein: You said there was no committee!]] There has also been no committee to repair the school books or the Bundessectenstelle, which you have so fully announced. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: Of course!]] [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: She doesn't know!]] Family tax: The ÖVP acts as if the new knowledge of the Constitutional Court would be a merit of the ÖVP. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: No! We're not saying that!]] I am telling you that exactly the opposite is the case. The ÖVP, all of you, ladies and gentlemen, as you sit here, have been guilty of long-standing compassion. [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: Don't say the untruth!]] They owe it that Austrian tax laws have preferred childless and that the minimum allowance for children has not been tax-free. You can try to beautify what you want. Mr. Klubobmann Khol! If you confirm in an article of the "Standard" that after the first Constitutional Court knowledge the repair law was clearly unconstitutional and every expert knew it, I wonder: Did your Members, your State Secretary, Mr Ditz, your former Minister for the Family Feldbrill-Zankel and also Mr Bauer, who is sitting here today, say the untruth at the time when the repair was under way? At the time, they all asserted that the repair law was constitutional. Mr. Klubobmann Khol!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e5621	Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e5636	I'm with you. Mr. Klubobmann Khol! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: What was it?]] They have thus gone outside the Constitutional Arch. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Wabl: That can't be! He's the Constitutional Arch!]] Since last year, an ÖVP model has been available to solve this constitutional problem in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e5688	Please, the speaking time applies to everyone!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e5703	Yeah, I'm at the closing point. He's a little longer. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: This is a box kit!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Khol.]] I can now offer you something, Mr Klubobmann Khol! You will have the freedom to do so if you make a constitutional solution.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e5754	The speaking time is over, Mrs Deputies. I'm sorry. The next word was spoken by Mrs Dr Schmidt. Speaking time 5 minutes. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e5778	Mr President. Minister! They know that the Liberals have long developed a transfer model on the subject of family promotion and where our understanding of family support is held. It has not even been discussed by all the other groups in this House. I hope that, as a result of the findings of the Constitutional Court, we will now have the opportunity to communicate in detail. Therefore, we will take the opportunity to make a urgent request to the Federal Chancellor – but we will not do this today, but only tomorrow – in order to finally come back to a parliamentaryization of politics by asking the questions "What can family policy be? What should be family promotion?" in this House. We want to deal with this in detail. It is quite funny to put some external signs, as the ÖVP has done today. However, this cannot be dissuasive of the fact that you have not complied with your words in the term "future-oriented family policy" which you have chosen today as the theme for the current hour. I believe that your family policy, as was heard from your words today, will be a strong step back. I think it is necessary to clarify this in a parliamentary debate through the exchange of arguments. I am therefore saying this because, eight minutes ago, the honourable Member, Mr Bauer, first used eight of her ten minutes to talk only about the financial development of family policy, and just two minutes before it took time to bring in other aspects. I am also saying this because Mr Bauer has spoken clearly, but even more clearly than Mr Moser, of the fact that children are not a private matter, but a matter of public interest. This is remarkable for a party that always speaks of self-responsibilities, privacy and less state. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: That says the Constitutional Court!]] She said that herself. I'm still coming to the Constitutional Court. It is remarkable which attitude of the People's Party is expressed in it. This attitude is underlined by the words of Mrs Moser in a way that she could not have been more openly. From this speaker's desk, she says that children are not a matter of the private design of life, but a gift to society. This reminds me – I think there we could find it right there – of the "mother cross" policy of the past. That is exactly the attitude behind it. According to them, it is not a question of the state having to ensure that private life - style is made possible, but of explaining the family's duties as state tasks. I would like to quote Gerhard Marshall, as he has put this to the point, so that I would like to join him in content. He asked the question: "What does the state even matter to the family? It always has one thing, with all social significance: Privacy." This was written in the main book by the ÖVP. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: There is no contradiction!]] "A state that takes family all too much into duty not to say, misused for its purposes, is not a good, but a calculated cynical state." – In so far as the "Oberösterreichische Nachrichten". I agree with that because I feel that the ÖVP wants to adapt society with the legal situation, one that it proposes and which it does not allow to develop freely. My understanding of the state and politics is that politics has to follow the needs of the population, but not that we are cutting the population, as you would like and as well as the Constitutional Court of Justice have obviously taken the opportunity to understand in detail its family policy ideas. I think this is a clear cross-border crossing of the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court must be controlled and must not intervene in any way. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Just because you don't like control!]] If the Constitutional Court says that 50 percent of the income required for maintenance should remain tax-free, then this is a form of statement that does not belong to the Constitutional Court. This is only Parliament's case, and we must therefore discuss it here. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: That's not true!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schwarzenberger.]] I would add: I think, as you say, Mrs Bauer, that this against each other should have no place in family policy or elsewhere. It's an evil. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] But if we want in family policy that self-forming in the family can actually happen, then we must support those who need it...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e5868	Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e5891	... and may not – as you want it – give to anyone the things you believe your ideologies are useful.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e5921	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e5943	Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Family policy is admittedly a very difficult field. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: How many children do you have?]] [[Abg. Wabl: Two! And how many do you have?]] It is a minefield in which there are really many problems, and some of them have already emerged in the previous debate. Family policy is the area in which not only benevolent wood will be razed until the breakup and the incense vessel for the benefit of families, but also at the same time – I really missed it in the previous debate – no one says which problems children – I call them first – and families in this country. This is not just a matter of material security and care. It is, of course, a matter of course, but it is also about the high divorce rates in this country. This is the reality of these families, Mrs Bauer! If you get a little deeper into matter and look at these high divorce rates, you can see that people are breaking the demands they are subject to because of their working world, society and demands in living together with partners and children. There they are left alone by politics. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner.]] Where are you with your answers when it comes to designing working hours in such a way that they also allow a living family, a liveable relationship with partners and children? Where are you when it comes to living times for both partners, for men and for women, so that the children have enough room to get to know their parents in time spent together? Where are you, then, when it comes to the fact that the Bishop Krenn – generously, as he is now – makes holidays available? We already had a debate on Sunday work, in which you refused the answer that it was also about social times, that relations can only be made viable. Where were you during all these debates? Were you with the families or with the children? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rosemarie Bauer.]] Were you with those who now conjure up in the debate? – Come now So you with beautiful flyers and say: Support the family, relieve our parents, provide for tax justice – as if that were the answer to the problems I have described to you now. How have you promoted the families in recent years? Have you supported the families by shortening the family allowance? Have you supported the families by deleting the birth grant? Have you supported the families by removing the home travel allowance? By reducing expenditure on school travel and schoolbooks? Because you have reduced the rent money, especially for those women who need it most? Do you support the families and the single parents if you push them into emergency aid? Promote single, single mothers by making it impossible for them to work and family – although They always conjure up together – to agree by canceling the unemployment allowance because they have children to care for? That's your policy, that policy you're responsible for together. This is the "family policy" of recent years in this country, under the lead marks. They are responsible for the fact that the single-parents are no longer supported by unemployment benefit. You are responsible for this, and you also have to stand for it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rosemarie Bauer.]] But you don't. They refuse this debate and speak in a loud and cloudy manner about the families we are putting somewhere, just not in reality, just not where they belong, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The problem with the recognition of the Constitutional Court – this is certainly another question to the Minister for Family Affairs – is that: We know that in this country poverty has increased, poverty in families that have more children to care for, poverty of individuals who are single and have children to care for. We've known that for a long time. What does the knowledge of the Constitutional Court say? – That’s the question to the Minister of Family, but it’s not a personal question. Mr. Family Minister! Will you be among the winners or the losers of this scheme through the arrangement that you will jointly decide – whatever the arrangement will be? [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer:... she doesn't fit you!]] I dare prophesy: They will be among the winners of this scheme because the Constitutional Court has, in fact, aimed at favouring the highest 2 to 3 percent, which, according to the presentation of the Constitutional Court, are disadvantaged.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e6025	Please ask for the final sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e6046	Thank you. – To carry for it As a member of one of the government parties, you are responsible. Because you have not made any political requirements to the Constitutional Court, the Constitutional Court can make policy in that country. As you have not been able to develop a policy of government together on the family issue, we are now faced with the situation of having to decide on a regulation that is obviously only aimed at favouring the rich. That's a shame.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e6077	The next speaker is Mr Morak. He's got the floor. Same time of speech.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e6098	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! In a Wiener Galerie a sign hangs with the sentence: Art is beautiful, but it does a lot of work. Similarly, one could say about family policy: Family is beautiful, but it does a lot of work. Mr. Ollinger! All you say is not true. Rather, it is always the opposite. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Secondly, It's nice to listen to Mrs. Mertel, just because she's always very keen on it. On the one hand, many sentences have already been said by the SPÖ. The stupid thing about it is that most of the time it cannot remember when it comes to it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] On the other hand, I am not talking now as a family politician. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: But as an actor!]] No, no, no, But also actors are people, Mrs. Mertel, you have to take note of that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Yeah, let's do that! The actors, in turn, take note that you too are people, the politicians, for example. Let's do that! Yeah? - Okay. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] I admit that I am not responsible for family policy – I only have 5 minutes, Mr Wabl; we can talk about it later on – but I am speaking here as one who, as a family father, also has two possible tax deposits at home. [[Abg. Wabl: What is not true of what Ollinger said?]] In this context, I do not even allow myself to talk about the crisis of the family, about the fragmentation of society and not about the self-realization society. I would like to talk about the fact that there is also a working family. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to claim that I know some who have a working family at home. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Two of three marriages!]] On the one hand. We are talking about the withdrawal of the state in all areas. We are delegating almost everything to the private unit and to the smaller unit. We agree that we create self-management for the VOEST and the "consumer" and whatever. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: Not for the "consumer" anymore!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The "consumer" no longer exists!]] That's right, yes, we just would have liked that. So Lean management. But the place where we have the "leanest" management, the most effective economic and social unit, is the family. The benefits of the family in the positive sense are known, I would like to say, and they are based on the fact that there is personal affection among people – and one must hold on to it – and that they cause the least social costs. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: A product of personal affection is of public interest?]] I didn't say that, Mr. Hazelsteiner. The Constitutional Court did not say that either. A functioning family is burdening the state and a non-functioning family is burdening it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Everyone's supposed to be happy after his fascism. Only once do you have to say that the most expensive form of life is that of isolation, that is, singleness, even though it is very well represented in the magazine of the Zeitgeist. I do not want to talk about the emotional deficits now, but apart from that, it is the most expensive way of living which society can afford. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Dangerous!]] In this context, I would also like to refer to a redistribution and a vertical capital flow. On the one hand, those with the perhaps individually satisfying but also stressful task of raising children, child rearing and in-the-society finding of children, on the other hand, say that they want to live alone, even with due respect. [[Abg. Oils: What does this have to do with the vertical redistribution?]] But it is – and can be nothing else – a demand of justice and, in fact, the most natural thing in the world that there is a flow of capital from one to the other. It is sad in this context, Mr Oellinger, that there has been a need for a knowledge of the Constitutional Court in order to draw your attention and to us to what it should be like. [[Abg. Oils: This is horizontal redistribution!]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e6281	The next speaker is Mrs Bures. - Please. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e6302	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Especially my predecessor has tried to define what a working family is. Mr Morak! I think it's up to you to define your family this way. But it raises the question of what a functioning family and what a not functioning family is. Are single parents taking responsibility for their children, those you would enter into the category of non-functioning families? – This suspicion is in the face of your remarks. I consider the title of today's current hour – "Future-oriented policy" – to be measured according to what I have heard so far, and according to the proposals that have been made so far. In my opinion, it would be more appropriate to speak of "antiquiring politics". [[Congratulations with the SPÖ, the Liberal Forum and the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steibl.]] As regards the further designation, namely "our families", and above all after the uncritical jubilation of the recognition of the Constitutional Court, I am also urged to suspect that you, with the families defined by Mr Morak, think above all of the well-appointed ÖVP families. These are the families Khol, Bartenstein et cetera. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] These two families, in particular, are proof that the number of children and child wealth has nothing to do with poverty. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: Do you pay for the pension?]] It is therefore wrong to say that having many children means poverty. There is poverty where there is no income or income is too low. That's poverty. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That is why I think it is completely wrong how the discussion has been so far, namely to view children as a postpost, so to speak, in the knowledge that Austrian family support is at the top of the world, which we can be very proud of. It is about the issue of distribution and the question of income. This is about job security. It is about women's employment. In no way is it – especially when women are unemployed – about any incentives and solutions that serve to push women back from the labour market. Rather, it is a matter of concrete measures to enable women to re-enter their profession and to pursue their work. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: If they want!]] Women should know that their children are well - educated because there are enough childcare places where children can be accommodated, where they can feel and learn. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Furthermore, it is about safety in living, because children also have a right to have a roof over their heads. I am also missing the initiatives of the ÖVP. We therefore come to the question of temporary rental contracts, which involve the need for children to change school or kindergarten because they lose their home because the contract is not extended. In this area, you could take child protection measures and make sure that we manage to find appropriate arrangements, get rid of temporary rental contracts and reach different prices in rents. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This limits family income and has a concrete impact on children. [[Abg. Haigermoser: In the Karl-Marx-Hof!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer.]] It is also incomprehensible to me that responsible politicians rejoice when the Constitutional Court, although out of the internal logic of the legislation, explains that the state has more to promote rich people with children than the poor with children. If the principle of equality allows such a legal distraction, then corrections must be made in a different direction and it is not enough to join only your reading of this knowledge, Minister. I would like to quote from an article by Christian Rainer in the "trend": "The Constitutional Court is not inhuman, but it cannot prevent perverse effects of its saying because of lack of competence for social policy. But this perversion can very well prevent the legislator." – We are, and we are called to do so. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] It is possible to discuss proposals to increase fixed deposits. Federal Minister! However, they have remained guilty of an answer. You said it wasn't about more taxes. But this is a proposal that costs 10 billion schilling. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: 20!]] These are not known to fall from heaven. So the question is: Where shall they be saved, where shall these means come from, and to whom shall they be taken away? I am still missing your answer to these questions, and I am still waiting for them. In my opinion, family support must be a matter of social security. We have further development of direct support, which has the best effect here, and we should support young families, single parents and multi-child families with lowest and low incomes. Social democracy stands for fair family support. That means: More for the poor and less for the rich!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e6445	The next speaker is Mrs Madl. - Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e6466	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The lubrication comedy, which has focused on pension reform in recent weeks, has continued today at this current hour by the ÖVP. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: They were the ones who organized a lubrication comedy!]] It has continued here and today, what I can see if I am aware of the speeches made by the EIA Members. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: You're holding a comedian's stadium here!]] And if I look at your reverse, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, on which "Lobby for children" can be read, I'll tell you: [[Almost all ÖVP delegates have attached posters to their clothes]] The families thank themselves for such a lobby! 120,000 families live below the poverty line. You're a lobby that destroyed the families! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] For who, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, has agreed to the tax package? [[Abg. Haigermoser: The Umfaller Party ÖVP!]] Who has enabled the SPÖ to impose burdens on the families? – Your voices! The ÖVP members have made it possible to reduce family aid! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: But you don't believe that yourself!]] Your votes, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, have made it possible for the Social Democrats to delete the birth aid. They've made it possible for them! They have allowed them to reduce the leave period from two years to a year and a half! It is clear that the Social Democrats have nothing to do with family, which has been heard in my predecessor's speech, but you of the ÖVP have also made it possible for the families to have 10 percent self-retaining in the school books now! [[Abg. Koppler: That was not your predecessor, but your predecessor!]] You, with your votes, have made it possible for the Social Democrats to enforce the removal of home travel aid. They also blamed the ÖVP for the fact that the wage tax rulings had been suspended in 1997 and you will now also agree this week that they will also be suspended for 1998. This means a huge burden for the families who advance the Minister of Finance with their wage tax now for the second year. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You, Mr. Federal Minister – not you personally, but your ÖVP – have led the family ministry, the family resort in recent years. They agreed to all these burdens at the government meetings in order to maintain the principle of unanimity. They were co-responsible for the great loads. That we really have a lot of families in which children become a financial burden – that's your fault! And who, ladies and gentlemen, has prevented the families from doing better again? Who voted against the family division of the liberal proposal? – It was the ÖVP that voted against the family division. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: Maybe the model was not good!]] But today you are making yourself, the Federal Minister Bartenstein is producing and celebrating this Constitutional Court knowledge as a historical judgment, as if he had not taken 50 billion schillings to the families ten years before. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: The Minister did this?]] Who, then, has prevented the family from receiving a child care check for years? – The ÖVP has prevented it because it, together with the SPÖ, has rejected our proposals. That is why I say that is a lubrication comedy that you are presenting here today, Mrs Bauer, because you have had years to agree to our proposals. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But not enough with it! You are doing a current hour today, and if I look at the 1998 budget, I see no provision for the changeover to a new family-friendly tax system. You didn't provide for 1998 either, Mr. Federal Minister! There's nothing in there! You admit it in the press service, too, because do you remember what you said? – It has not been necessary so far. That means 50 billion schilling isn't enough yet. Yes, Minister of State, how long do you want to wait? – From one current hour to another, you swear that something will change, but for 1998, the budget has not yet been provided at all. And that's why I'm saying: It will have to be the liberties who make proposals and requests for a fair family tax policy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] Because until now we've always made nails with heads, while you've been down here and just polemized. God, I'm sorry! Mrs Bauer! I'm ashamed of you!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e6650	I call Mrs Klara Motter. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e6675	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Morak, you do not prevent anyone from living a functioning family, as it is in your mind, but family policy is not based on individual opinions, but we family politicians have the task of asking us how they find our families at this time. This is family policy and not the idea of how I want to live it! [[Abg. Steibl: But he is also entitled to say that he wants to live a working family!]] Whether it fits me or not – I have to say this, Mr Morak. I just wanted to tell you that. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] The fact that the Austrian People's Party is using the word "future-oriented" for this present hour is not an irony for me either, because the current family policy of the People's Party is not characterised by the fact that forward-looking concepts that deal with the actual situation of our families today have been presented. On the contrary! If statements by various EIA politicians are made after the knowledge of the Constitutional Court – and such statements have been made again today – these statements lead to the deepest past rather than to the future. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I would just like to remind you of the statements made by the ÖAAB-Oberman, Minister Fassleven, who, by means of financial incentives, wanted to persuade women to fight children. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: But go!]] Or to the dominant ÖVP family association, which suggested that women without children should retire later or pay higher contributions – almost as a punishment for their childlessness. With these statements, ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party, two groups, namely the maintenance officers and the childless, are to be played against each other, an approach that is not understandable to me. [[Abg. Steibl: Not at all! That has never been spoken of!]] Please check You have these statements of your dominant family covenant! They're all members there. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] For this play I have no understanding, because we all know that there are enough couples who would like to have children, but can't get them. This is known to us, especially to us women we are in politics. Ladies and gentlemen! As you know, the Liberal Forum – my club boss has already announced it – has been trying for a long time to discuss a model for a goal-setting reform of family support. Unfortunately, it has not been a success to this day. Mr Federal Minister, I also hope that you will look at our model, because we are primarily concerned with dissolving ourselves from the so-called casting pot principle and promoting social need. It is also a fact that our family transfer model was presented long before the Constitutional Court was aware. In addition, our model – and I believe that this is very important in the current situation – would not lead to any additional burden on the budget. Our model focuses on the child as an independent individual, who has a right to a minimum of monetary existence – regardless of the age and number of siblings. With our model, we leave the parents by no means out of their care, but we admit to the parents who deserve enough to also challenge their maintenance obligations, while parents who, for whatever reason, have a low income, must receive the necessary support from the state. Even if a parent chooses to stay at home, our model provides that this activity is added to a fictional income. Unfortunately, I am missing the time to do this now, but tomorrow we have enough time to deal with our model, and I ask you to do the same and not to reject it from the beginning again. We have a thoughtful model that is worth being discussed. However, it is to be feared that, as long as the coalition parties do not move away from their ideological views and take note of the fact that there are the different forms of living together, which are all the same for us liberals, because, in our opinion, it must be the decision of each individual to shape his life. No one should be subject to a diktat.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e6759	As the last speaker, Mrs Dr Petrovic has now spoken. - Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e6780	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! In the course of this current hour, the debates by members of the government show up somewhat blatant ideological residual sizes, without really being clarified, to be revealed without any debate on them. In this vacuum of constant meanings: We're all for the families! We are all for equal opportunities, for better opportunities for young people! is never expressed what that really means, and in this vacuum the Constitutional Court has made policy. I think we should address the ideological questions, the question of whether and to what extent children are private, whether and to what extent there are public concerns, and we should not continue to do so with the ideologies. I think that the question whether or not someone has children is the decision for or against family, the decision to live as a single or in different forms of community is an absolute and pure private matter. I also believe that this private decision should not result in any tax discrimination – not for childless people, not for people who are not voluntarily or involuntarily in a family association. But one thing is not properly perceived at all – I believe that this has not been reflected in the speeches of the Liberal Forum –: In my view, there is a public concern about equal opportunities, a public concern that all children, all young people, should have free access to education, that social learning and life be possible. And since you, Mrs Mertel, and you, Mr Morak, have said how important it is to invest in training, I really ask you who has reduced all these benefits. Was that with or against the voices of the Social Democrats? You, Mr Morak, also said that the statements of the green social spokesperson, Mr Ollinger, were all wrong, so I ask you in every way: Who did the cuts for the students, for the women? Was that not also with your voice and with the votes of the ÖVP so decided, which today you conjure up the family? I spoke of these blatant ideologies in which the private decision for or against children, the private decision for or against family, is mixed against society with the question of public concern for equal opportunities for all. Therefore, I ask you what to think of such a leaflet as it is distributed by the ÖVP in front of the house when it says: Give the youth a chance! from which the claim is derived: Relieve the parents! With the first request, I can go very well. Yes, give the youth more chances! Give the youth a lot more opportunities! Will you at last be able to comply with the claim of our Civil Code that each person is a person in a legal sense, has his or her own claims, has his or her own needs and is not derived! But one thing I'm telling you about the ÖVP: You will be the family... [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein.]] I think that is exactly where we should start, Minister of State. They really want to promote elites. They really want to relieve rich fathers. If you want the youth to have a chance, then really leave your hands away from the free education, then leave your hands away from the free ride for students, then leave your hands away from the school books! Invest in children and young people instead of once more grab a back door in the control pots to relieve the rich fathers! Nothing else is going on to you!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e6827	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. The current hour is over. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e6851	As regards the negotiated items and their allocation, I refer to those according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure in the Chamber of Meeting. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e7047	The following template has also been received: Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of the United States of America on legal aid in criminal matters and forms in 837 of the supplements. After consultation with the members of the Presidential Conference, I propose, pursuant to Article 28a of the Rules of Procedure, to refrain from assigning this subject to a committee and to place it on the agenda of one of the next meetings. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. That is why we are doing so. Aside from the 24 hour lead-in period
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e7075	==References== To be able to negotiate item on the agenda, it is in accordance with § 44 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure required to waive the 24-hour deadline for the submission of the Committee's report. This is the report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (885 of the Supplements): 1. Budgetary Support Act 1997 (911 of Supplements). It was requested, within the meaning of § 66 para. 3 to announce the number of those who vote in favour and those who vote against. I am therefore going to do so and ask the two authors – it is Mrs Rosemarie Bauer and Mr Auer – to support me in the counting of these votes. [[The two mentioned scribes shall go to the Bureau as President.]] Please do not distribute or stay in the Members' Series – except those who are elected representatives of this House. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to the withdrawal from the time-limit for this committee report, to give a sign of this kind. [[President Dr Neisser takes the vote with the help of the two writers.]] I declare that 122 Members voted in favour and 60 against. This application has therefore been accepted with the required two-thirds majority. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e7129	We are going into the agenda with this. The President-in-Office of the Council reached the following consensus on the duration of the debate. A day-block speaking time of a total of 9 "Vienna hours" has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ 135 minutes, ÖVP 126, Freeman 117, Liberal Forum and Greens per 81 minutes. We shall now proceed to the vote. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who agree to this proposal at day-block speaking time, in order to give a sign in this regard. – This request has been accepted by the majority. 1. Point Report by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure on Amendment 507/A by Dr Peter Kostelka, Dr Andreas Kholund Comrades on a Federal Act amending the Federal Law on the Rules of Procedure of the National Council and the Criminal Code (871 of Supplements) (Third reading)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e7175	We're coming to the 1st. Agenda item. As this draft law has already been adopted at second reading, we shall immediately come to the third reading. I shall vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 871 of the supplements as amended by the second reading of the decision. The Federal Law on the Rules of Procedure of the National Council may, in accordance with Art. Paragraph 30 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act are amended only in the presence of at least half of the members and by a majority of two thirds of the votes cast. First of all, I note the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. It was also requested for this purpose, within the meaning of § 66 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure, a numeration of the votes for them and those against them. That's why I'm doing this. I would ask you to take the places and ask the two authors, Mrs Bauer and Mr Auer, once again to help me to count the votes. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, give their approval to this draft law, to give such a sign. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Mr President! You can only vote from your place! Some Members are not in their place!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] [[The authors shall, together with the President, make the number of votes.]] I declare that 122 Members voted in favour of this draft and 60 voted against. Ladies and gentlemen! In this way, the draft law before us has been adopted by a majority of the majority at third reading, and I expressly define the constitutional quota. Before I left the 2nd place. I would like to ask you to consider the following point in the agenda: As you know, there is no explicit arrangement of the Rules of Procedure to vote only from its place, but it would be very useful in such situations if all Members were in those places where their name tag is also on. That concludes this item on the agenda. 2. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (885 of the Supplements): 1. Budgetary Support Act 1997 (911 of Supplements) President Dr. Heinrich Neisser: We're coming to the 2nd. Agenda item. Oral reporting shall not take place. We are going into the debate immediately. I give the floor to the first speaker, Mr Dr. Haider. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e7235	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The "closure overture" of the so-called pension reform has today been accompanied by an appropriate media coverage. For example, it was found that a capitulation of the government took place. It is written that this pension reform is now being brought on stage with Ah and Weh and that very little was saved from what was originally proposed. – So I also understand the fact that the one who has set the whole thing up, namely the Federal Chancellor, is not here today. According to Rust, he spoke of a historically important pension reform, but today he does not even trust himself in Parliament to answer what has become of it. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Of course, the Austrians are gradually wondering: If a government for such a coup, as it is presented today in relation to the official pension reform, already needs five months, how long would it take to arrive at meaningful solutions? [[Call to the liberals:Eternal!]] Probably an eternity. This also shows the ability of this government to act, because on the essential points that have been announced, one is on the spot. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Headmaster.]] This is also true in other areas. Mr Bundeskanzler Klima has announced a great deal that he will make an export offensive because it is important for jobs. – Now we read that this offensive is not going to be because you have no money for it. This was postponed until 1998. 200 million schillings will be used for this. There is no longer any mention of the billions originally announced that would have had a positive impact on the domestic economy and thus on jobs. The same is true of the question of apprentices. What has become of the apprentice offensive? – 7,000 apprentices are still without a apprenticeship! Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! What about your guarantee that every young person has become his apprenticeship in autumn? What has become of this guarantee? – These were only empty announcements that cause the Austrians to have a frustration and say: You can't count on anything at all, not even on what Mr. Federal Chancellor says! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is also related to pension reform. In 1993 the same majority in the House presented a pension reform to us, which was said to be well beyond the turn of the millennium to secure pensions. And in 1995 the Social Democracy told its voters that there would be no cuts in the house. – But shortly after that, it is necessary to hold a pension reform debate because it seems to have gone out of the money in the back and front. Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! That is why you wanted to do something at all: because you really need to get money in the short term. This is also the reason why your expert Rürup made you broadcast on TV again yesterday: This is not a long-term rehabilitation of pensions, but a short-term fund-raising action. This is what Rürup referred to, and Mr Klubobmann, Dr. Khol, has unwittingly said the truth here in the House today, when he meant: [[Complaints with the liberals]] We urgently need this. Of course! You urgently need money for the budget, so you take measures such as the one that all minor employees now have to pay an insurance to get you to money immediately, or you raise the maximum contribution base so that you can get money right away. On the other hand, in the future this means new benefits, for which money will also be needed, you have not thought, because the Members sitting here today will not all be here in a few years when it comes to holding a pension debate again. Then you've been out of your responsibility for a long time and have your pensions in your pocket. You don't care about the Austrians anymore! That's the point. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: You just don't understand!]] Mr President, I should like to thank This is the same as we experienced in joining the EU. All those who have promised us such beautiful things before joining the EU have since come out of the dust. Mrs Ederer with her famous thousands is no longer there, Mr Dr. Vrannitzky, who has promised us 30 000 new jobs, is no longer there, Mr Lacina, who has promised us an above-average growth rate in the economy, is no longer there, and Mr Busek, who has even sung the "International" to bless the EU, is no longer there. – This is your policy, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties. [[Abg. Haigermoser: "Johannes of the Falses" is no longer here!]] These are the political marks that people remember: There is nothing left to trust in this government. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Therefore, this pension reform will also be assessed under this title. What you're presenting here today is basically a system according to the motto: "Give me the flood. We bring this over the stage, the people take the flood off and behind us!" - But it won't work. In Rust, climate still wanted the muscles to play, but then he went to the knees. First he blew to the attack, and then he had to withdraw. He wanted to show strength and then actually lost the nerves. He has promised our children a good, secure future and in fact has not ended up with the socialist past of his own comrades. This is the reality of this pension reform model that you have presented to us today. One has been redistributed from the poor to the rich, if I understand the colleague Posch of the SPÖ who said: For officials, this solution is actually a disaster. This is no reason to celebrate, because it is especially hard for the many small officials. – This was just said by the Social Democratic Democrat Posch in the press service. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Ah, look here! Where is he?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Koppler: Closer!]] Therefore, he is probably not allowed to co-examination today either. Therefore, he may not be allowed to sit here in plenary, but he was, as it were, withdrawn from the traffic. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] Mrs. Colleague! That would also be a possibility, you have said before. That's exactly what it's all about. We are quite right in our assessment, ladies and gentlemen. That only shows what you did to the officials: They have agreed that the calculation solution you have wanted will be delayed for so long that it will no longer apply to the so-called old generation of officials of the Dohrs and new builders, and they think that the boys should judge it themselves later. That is to say, the officials have created a good solution for themselves. The Social Democrats participate when the little ones are left in the rain, and the big section heads have judged it once again. This is directly a "sectional suffocation law", I would say, because if you now make an even more functional increase in section heads via amendment request – look at this! – then the pensions of the section heads are even upgraded. [[Interlocutory calls from Dr. Mertel and Parnigoni]] [[Abg. Parnigoni's on his head.]] Not at the brain, but at the same time, reading and wondering why you agree, Mr President. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They increase the functions of section heads before they resign so that you can improve their pensions, so to speak. Or: They say that the early retirement system must be restricted, Mr State Secretary. – But how does it work if it is planned that an early retirement action will be undertaken at the post office at the same time, and if at the same time you need to make an extension of early retirement arrangements for teachers so that you can recruit new teachers so that young people can be taught? – That does not fit together in the back and in the front! Or the valorization: What do you think the valorization you negotiated yesterday will bring about? – It will bring another flight to the early pension, because by 2019 those officials who do not want to have a disadvantage will go to the early board in mass. They're not stupid, and they won't wait until they hit the trap of your wrong legislation. I would therefore like to say to you: The proposal you are introducing today is really a coup, because the government is creating the problems that it actually wanted to eliminate. Early retirement is extended and not restricted, a permanent guarantee is not given, the boys have no future in this system, and everyone knows that in two or three years, at the latest after the next National Council election, we will have to discuss pension reform again. Therefore, you have not achieved anything in the result. The titulation alone is remarkable. [[The speaker holds up a statement.]] I took this with me to quote an example of this "wonderful" arrangement in § 62h. This shows what arrangements have been made here. The civil servants' pension reform results in a new allowance being created, a so-called 'comparative pension allowance'. This means that the old pension scheme is compared with the new pension scheme, and with the result that a compensation is found somewhere in the middle, there is a new allowance again. Instead of making a reasonable new, modern system, you go up to the old system twice and create a comparative rest allowance. It reads like this – I quote –: "If the comparison board does not exceed the amount of 28 000 S, the rest is to be calculated as follows: 1. The reference pension should be deducted from the amount of 7 000 s and the result divided by the number of 300 000." - No one knows why. "2. The result of this division shall be rounded to three places and deducted from the number 1. 3rd. If the rest is lower than the product of the comparison board with the number resulting from Z 2, the increase shall be equal to that difference. Otherwise, no increase shall be made." [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] No one knows about it anymore! This has also been noted by the Carinthian government, which says: "The follow-up of these computational operations to determine the pension claim calls for human logic." – The Constitutional Service of the Kärntner State Government informs you. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Look here!]] [[Abg. Wabl: Don't worry! It's the Cordula Frieser!]] That's how you make the laws! These are your "permanent" pension insurance laws, ladies and gentlemen! There is no point in talking about harmonisation! Where have you harmonised, Mr. State Secretary? For example, what about employees in the field of social security? – All arrangements for the employees of those Tintenburg who manage pension funds will not be harmonised. There's everything left with the old man. For these employees there is a separate service, they receive 80 percent of their final pension, like the officials in their best time. But they also get a finish, as in the private sector. There is no harmonisation. Or: the staff in the chamber, Dr. Stummvoll. Their employees have been bought off the Pragmatization. Today, they receive official pensions, ranging from 70 to 80 percent of the last one. ==References====External links== For example, a voluntary pension reduction of 7.4 million Schilling, plus 2 million Schilling compensation, plus ASVG maximum, is paid with the forced contributions of the small chamber officials, the small entrepreneurs! That, ladies and gentlemen, are your "harmonizations" you are carrying out in Austria! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: This is a scandal! Pui!]] [[Further peacocks and intermediate calls to the liberals.]] Or: What about the politicians, ladies and gentlemen? – Before we have said that we are concerned about the harmonisation of pension rights, it is in this House with the approval of four parties – not the liberals! . gave a pension scheme which also regulated pensions for politicians in such a way that today the Green Stoisits MEPs have already been excited about it, although they agreed to this scheme at the time. This is also interesting in this context. [[Abg. May. Stoisits: What?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Oh yes! The Greens have agreed!]] You don't seem to know what you said at the speaker's desk a few minutes ago. We have registered this very precisely, ladies and gentlemen! For politicians, there is no calculation period, Dr. Khol, even if you have falsely claimed it yesterday in public. Because politicians will continue to have their pensions calculated according to the highest class of service of the head of section, class IX, grade 6 according to the law. [[The speaker quoted again from the above-mentioned document]] [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: Just like you, Dr. Haider!]] But the fact that all of them are affected does not reduce pigmeat, Mr President. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Instead, they should make a fair arrangement and also ensure that nothing is taken away from small officials. You should not, for example, take away a poster who earns 11 600 S after 28 years of service, 40 percent of them allowances, due to the calculation periods for the small officials now taking away money, while the politicians do not direct it. Ladies and gentlemen! The political pensions require a grant – you always shake your head because you don't like to talk about your own things – from 600 000 S per year and political board to current relationships. [[Abg. Parnigoni makes a defensive gesture]] If you do not generate for this, ladies and gentlemen, then, as I believe, you have thoroughly misunderstood your role as a representative of the people! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have not decided. We liberals have presented you with a different model. We said: Makes ASVG-pensions for politicians, as for any other Austrian. That would have been a clean and decent solution. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Lively calls from Deputies Dr. Karlsson, Mag. Maier and Tegischer.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would be really excited if you would have thrown yourself on the tracks for the little people as you do now for your own interests. It is also necessary to point out how this action is being carried out. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! What is that for a pension reform, where it is said, a woman must work for at least 15 years in order to have a pension claim, while each minister has a pension entitlement of more than 50 000 S in his pocket after two years of service. When the Lord After only two years of ministerial retirement, he has left one today, 55 000 S pension in his pocket! You have to explain this to the people you want to take away something with your pension decisions today! That is your type of social democracy in this country! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner.]] Of course! They have also claimed that there is no longer any settlement for politicians. In reality, there is an automatic pay-up of 12 months, no matter how long a politician has worked. They systematically mislead the people, ladies and gentlemen! That's the reality! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: Not automatically! That's not true!]] When it comes to your things, you're always very sensitive, we know that. But not only the political pensions are not harmonised, even in the case of pensions in the field of the National Bank is not harmonised. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner.]] Mr President, I should like to thank Even if you still claim it so often, it won't get any more right! – There is also a pension irregularity in the area of the National Bank, as it should no longer be. That is why Professor Rürup is right when he says that essentially time has been bought. That is, the government has bought time to survive politically. That's it! But one at the same time commits a massive theft of the future of the younger generation. That's not a question at all! Mr. Rürup addressed you yesterday, too: The later you start a reasonable reform, the more terrible the cuts would be. That's the reality! But this is what you are doing to the young generation because you do not have the strength to carry out a reasonable reform yourself. That even tells you the state's own postal savings bank. It is already advocating with the argument that state pensions are no longer safe, so private insurance is required. Then leave at least the people out of the cage of compulsory insurance, give you the opportunity to take care of yourself! You can't even do that in this country! Not even a small premium for an additional insurance is taxed. In recent years, the major privatizers of the ÖVP have contributed to the impossibility of self-sufficiency. This is the truth, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In reality, you want to keep people in the forced cage of compulsory membership, keeping compulsory insurance. The 28 social security institutions will be preserved and nothing will change at all. With ads you go here today and claim that the payment insurance is the best. That's what I'm asking myself: Why does a state monopoly even have to advertise? The compulsory insurance companies, the social insurance companies are advertising today, saying that there could be an inflation, there could be a war, and there would be much safer pensions in the state's charging process. Does this perhaps have something to do with the euro? For example, Mr Sallmutter writes in his trade union newspaper that the euro is an adventure, he costs jobs, savings and income. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Ah, look here!]] This is to be read, ladies and gentlemen, in the recent issue of Mr Sallmutter's trade union newspaper. This is highly recommended for all those comrades who still want to be convinced. That's why we're saying, "Freeman." Make a reasonable model, as it is on the agenda in those States, which today intend to implement their pension reforms. Switzerland has excellent balance sheets, it changed to a three-pillar model twelve years ago. The Netherlands – an example that the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany likes to quote – has also changed to a three-pillar model, as have other countries. If we did as it is done in Switzerland, it would have the advantage that we would have a state basic pension, where there is no maximum contribution basis and where – Mr Koppler – listen! – the rich would also deposit into the basic pension without limitation for the poor. [[Abg. Koppler: What does a salesman with 13,000 S grossto do with a three-pillar model?]] Then we wouldn't have been scandalous as today, where two thirds of the ASVG insured persons received less than 10 000 s, but then we would have a basic pension of 11 000, 12 000 S, ladies and gentlemen! That's the reality! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Koppler: What does a trader with 13,000 S gross do with a three-pillar model? Explain this once!]] I know that Mr Koppler will have to pay more, that is clear, because the rich will have to pay more, that is not a question at all. So he's against it. We are prepared to participate accordingly in this form of redistribution. [[Abg. Koppler: What does a commercial employee with 13,000 S gross for a three-pillar model? Explain this once!]] Ladies and gentlemen! If your ASVG system leads to two thirds of the insured receiving less than 10 000 S pension, then I think our proposal – Mr Koppler – would be inclined to listen briefly to me – certainly the more attractive model, because the example of Switzerland proves that the basic security is already higher than the state pension you have promised. That's the reality! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Koppler: This is crazy!]] However, it really raises the question of what we should do when voting. I received a letter from the Public Service Union, which reads as follows: "Dear Member! If you want to meet your obligation as a representative of the working population, you prove by your vote that you are not the extended arm of the Federal Government. With trade union greetings." [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Kopper: Which dates?]] Ladies and gentlemen! What am I supposed to do now?
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e7681	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask for the final sentence. Your speaking time has expired.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e7696	That's the latest dates. I do not have that much correspondence with the trade union, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Kopper: Which dates?]] I will certainly not be the extended arm of the government. But you, my dear colleague Koppler, as a trade unionist should consider not constantly spit large tones and then leave your union members in the rain!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e7748	Ladies and gentlemen! There are now a number of words on actual corrections. I call them individually and I would like to remind all the speakers that there is a time limit of 2 minutes, and each speaker may begin with the claim which describes the facts he wants to correct. For the first time, I shall give the floor to Mr Dr. Khol.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e7777	My previous speaker said that I would have said in my speech to the debate that we urgently need the reform of the pension system in order to reorganise the budget. I would like to say to that that we urgently need this pension reform in order to secure the social system.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e7807	Another actual correction was requested by Mr Grossruck. Please, honourable Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e7832	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker has claimed that it is the politicians... – Mr. Dr. Haider! [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] That was just a correction by Dr. Khol. [[Intervocations and ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Rarely so laughing, comrade!]] But, gentlemen of the "F", you've taken good care of it. Mr Haider has falsely claimed that all the politicians who are in the National Council and that the State has to pay an annual pension of 600 000 S. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: 600,000 S per pension!]] I'm actually correcting: The salary and pension reform for politicians, which has recently been decided here, gives me an ASVG-pension personally and can also pay in to a pension fund as part of a voluntary opportunity. This concerns all the younger colleagues who are in the National Council. This is the core of the pension reform, and it is not true what Mr Haider has said here, namely that the politicians had addressed this decision.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e7906	Mr. Dr. Hazelsteiner is the next to want an actual correction. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e7945	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Dr. Haider has claimed that the four parties who have worked on the policy reform of the pension system for politicians, among other things, would not have abolished the settlements, but replaced them by an automatic one, and they would not have abolished the privileges in their pensions but, on the contrary, improved their pensions. Both claims are incorrect. The representatives and politicians of this Republic will not receive payments or pension payments beyond the ASVG rules, and I would ask you, Dr. Haider, to take note of this.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e7985	Mr Dr. Stumm volvely spoke on another actual correction. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e8010	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Haider has here stated from the speakers' point of view that the government's policy has done everything possible to prevent self-sufficiency. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Of course!]] The reality is that all insurance companies in Austria report that they are recording an increase in self-sufficiency, as they have never been.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e8069	Ladies and gentlemen! Please leave the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure to me. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: No, we have to leave it to you!]] [[Further violent calls to the liberals.]] Mr Scheibner and Mr Bauer, listen! There are now two reports for actual corrections. Then comes a personal reply from Mr Dr. Haider, and from this point on I shall make all the statements for actual corrections to the conclusion of the debate within the meaning of § 58 of the Rules of Procedure. The next actual correction is made by Mr Mag. Maier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e8111	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Haider has claimed that the politicians had addressed the pensions, and has mentioned a number of 600 000 S per person. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: In reality it is 700 000 S!]] With this speech, Mr Haider has once again deliberately led the public into the wrong direction, which demunises politics, just as he has protested at the "press hour" on Sunday, University Professor Dr. Koja. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: This is not an actual correction!]] [[Strong calls at the liberals towards the Bureau]] I'm correcting: I am one of the young Members in this House. I'm going to get an ASVG-pension, and this is – if I'm still in politics – currently 28 538 pp.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e8179	The next word for a real correction is from Mr Gusenbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e8204	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Dr. Haider claimed that there was no calculation period for politicians. That's not right! It is true, rather, that there is no calculation period for old politicians of Mr. Haider's stroke, for younger politicians who are not going to take a political pension, but for an ASVG-pension, but exactly the same calculation period as for any other Austrian employee.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e8231	Mr Haider referred to a personal response to an actual correction. – Mr President, I would ask you to clarify at the beginning your personal concern within the meaning of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e8267	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Since you have exercised the right to hold political referendums instead of actually correcting them, I note that Mr Hazelsteiner has not once again said the truth. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: This is not a personal response! It's not business rules!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] In fact, § 6 of the new referee law is under the title "additional payment" nothing other than that the politicians, if they leave, will continue to pay their contributions for a year without further delay.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e8320	Deputies! Where's your personal response, please?
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e8336	I am also replying to Mr Haselsteiner's actual correction and saying that his allegations are wrong because every politician in this House after four years of ministry and after ten years of delegation until 1. A pension will be paid on 1 August 1997. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Mr President! This is a misuse of the Rules of Procedure!]] The grant requirement is not 600 000 S but 680 000 S because currently 291 politicians...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e8379	Deputies! I'm sorry, but that's not a personal response, it's a debate contribution.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e8411	291 politicians apply pensions of 1.8 billion Schilling to 800 million Schilling. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Mr President! What's that?]] This means, ladies and gentlemen, that every political board today has been subsidized by the taxpayer by 680 000 s.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e8450	Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I repeat my order that the actual corrections be called at the end of the debate, and I would like to say that: There are doubts that the statements of words have been largely actual corrections, just as there has been no personal response from your side, Mr Dr. Haider. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: I use the same right as the others!]] However, I would like to say to those who have called so loudly after compliance with the Rules of Procedure: I would like to draw attention to the fact that when actual corrections have begun, they are actually a contribution to debate. I ask you to think about it. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Violent calls at SPÖ and ÖVP.]] The next speaker is Mr Kostelka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e8491	Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Haider! Of your personal response, which you just offered to the house, only one interesting thing for me was the attitude behind it! [[Violent contradiction with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Aumayr: The Old Leader!]] Then: You have declared on your way to the speaker's desk that all before you have broken the Rules of Procedure in their speeches. As an expert in the Rules of Procedure, you have done so in a blatant way, which you have accused other Members. There has been no personal reference to you in the previous actual corrections. You just wanted to make a contribution to the debate, and it is completely indifferent to you whether the first sentence Your comments on the last one are contrary. Media effect is said, everything else is you sausage! I'll tell you: The Austrians recognize this attitude. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mr Haider! They wanted to bring this up with comments to the referee law on stage, regardless of whether your Carinthian friends voted in favour of it or against They play the revenge of widows and orphans in political settlements and pensions – contrary to the facts, contrary to the legislative text, contrary to what you have actually had in your hands, namely the Relevant Limitation Act. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Please explain this again: What about the media effect?]] Ladies and gentlemen! There's no more finishings. They know this, but those who are watching now are to be speeded up a truth which is not true and which does not exist, namely that in the field of political functions there will be discharges in the future after the reference law. That's not true! You've been abolished, and you know that. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: (keeping a legal text in height) There is a reference advance payment!]] The person who is unable to carry out a professional activity because he has to seek a profession for a period of time after his mandate, should be paid for as long as he has no other employment. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Why?]] That's something but a finish! [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Koppler: They say the untruth!]] Ladies and gentlemen! In the same way, it is with the fairy tale of the 600 000 S. You know very well that, in the future, we are making a policy based on the principle that we are going to be able to pay rest in accordance with the contract law. "Out of the eyes, out of the mind." [[Intercession with the liberals.]] The great reform of the right of reference this summer, Mr President, is that at the moment when a Member of Parliament lays down his mandate or a minister's function, the Federation, the local authority for which he has worked, every commitment is complete. They're throwing us a policy. "Behind us the Flood!" ü ü ü ü ü. ü ü. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: How is the reference payment?]] Ladies and gentlemen! What Dr. Haider here commanded was very shallow water, which was very superficial water, in which there were streams of inaccuracies and falsehoods. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mr Haider! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Can you say that again?- Oh, my God!]] They accuse us – and that is, if it were not so tragic, almost to laugh – of short-term money acquisition actions in connection with the pension reform. Mr Haider! Explain Just one thing to ask me: How to obtain additional funding for the budget in the short term if this reform begins to work with a grinding system in 2003 and will be fully developed in 2020? [[Abg. Dr. Haider: By taking off the small employees!]] – That is contrary to your claim! But sound well, and that's why you use this formulation in front of the TV camera. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Professor Rürup is wrong!]] – That’s what you’re talking about in this regard! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: That's what Rürup said, not me! The government expert!]] They say we leave the little officials in the rain. Ladies and gentlemen! What we have taken in and dynamized in the final phase after very intensive discussions with the trade unions – which is why they have finally agreed – is a covert of the negative effects with exactly this social dimension. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Many small officials are affected!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: That's what Comrade Posch says! Comrade Posch says we can't!]] This reform, Mr Haider, is socially absolutely balanced. Because what is realized in this context is that in 2020 the total negative effect for a small official can be 1 percent. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Have you talked to Posch? Have you talked to Posch?]] Where's the rain you're accusing? – He does not exist because we social democrats, together with the trade unions, have made sure that there is a corresponding minimization of the net replacement rate. Pensions are therefore also insured for the individual in the next few decades. Mr Haider! For example, they claim – and this is already more poetry than truth – that this reform, which we decide to do, is about a "head-of-the-fifth-up" law. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: No! Posch says this: no reason to celebrate, little officials affected!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Let the broadcast of Posch come!]] Ladies and gentlemen! These are the provisions to which reference is made. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: This will bring an actual correction!]] A single section in the Ministry of Agriculture will be upgraded and another section in the Ministry of Health will be devalued. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Ah, but!]] The net result is roughly the same. But that's what you call spectators who don't recognize themselves here as "the head of the section appreciation law". [[Abg. Koppler: Another half-truth!]] This is dishonesty and dishonesty in person, Mr Haider! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Mr Kostelka has not read it completely!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: What about the section...?]] They also claimed the efforts made in connection with the apprentices. Be calm. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: What about the Women's and Consumer Protection Section? What about the health care section?]] Mr Haider! These Federal Governments and in particular the Federal Chancellors have been fully committed to creating additional apprenticeships. We succeeded. I think that's something we can look back on with pride. I admit that 6 500 cases remain open. At the same time, however, I am telling you that some 3 000 vacancies for apprentices – some still need to be created – are facing this. In addition, according to our announcements, there will be measures to ensure that either training or a job for young jobseekers is available this autumn – and we are still in the autumn. This is a policy – promised and kept – to which we confess. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] Ladies and gentlemen! What we are presenting to you here is – we are now at the beginning of seven plenary sessions in two weeks – the 1998 budget and the broad outlines in the budget programme, which we have also discussed, for 1999. At the end of this two-week period, we presented to the National Council not only the federal budget for the next year, but also the broad guidelines for the next year and largely "promulgated" with appropriate decisions. Ladies and gentlemen! In this way we can say that in these two weeks we have implemented the budget programme for the rest of the legislative period – in accordance with the principle that, although we have achieved budgetary restructuring on the one hand, we have developed the financial scope for action if there is a recession in the economy. For us, saving policy is not self-evident, but a prerequisite for state action if the economy needs appropriate impetus. It is not a cutback, as some people blame us for, but it is an offensive, a socially balanced, a job-creating and secure saving, which is more consistent and above all socially balanced than in most other European countries. Ladies and gentlemen! This majority of governments in the National Council, the political system, but also the social partners have proved themselves to be successful and decisive through these decisions that we have to take in these seven days, and beyond that they have proved to be future-oriented and social. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] At this point, at the beginning of these seven-day discussions, I should like to mention my credo on social policy, but also on budgetary policy: A Social Democratic and with me my 70 other friends in the National Council certainly do not understand a nightguard state under the term state. For, ladies and gentlemen, a nightguard state has still taken care of the property of those who were able to judge it. What we want is a powerful state, a state that then rushes to the aid of the individual when he needs support – for reasons of illness, because of unemployment, old age, but also with regard to child rearing or care. It is also the responsibility of the State to ensure equal opportunities: in training, in the profession. Mr. Hazelsteiner, don't shake your head! Women in particular need such support in order to find their fair rightful right in the economy and not just in the public service. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: Yes, but your method is wrong! You're doing it wrong!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We do so in a situation where all the budgets of all the countries of this continent have been under pressure, simply because economic development in the second half of the 1990s is not quite the way we might have thought in the 1970s and 1980s. We must therefore make reforms in order to secure and support the social network that has been under pressure in the future. We must do this, in particular, because we have a policy against the background of an age pyramid, because different generations are facing each other, and because of the medical development, the possibilities of medicine, we come to an age structure in the population that forces us to act. Ladies and gentlemen! I say quite frankly to you that we would not be obliged to act now, but we are doing so because we want to save the citizens of our country in the next legislative period, in any case, deeper, stronger cuts. That is why I should like to turn to you once again, Mr Haider, namely your three pillars. I say to you that this is a policy that has been announced, but has not been set out accordingly, a policy of white cynicism. The first column is basically oriented towards the minimum of existence. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: 11,000 S! Two thirds have less than 10,000!]] This is a pillar that ultimately leads to the law in its majestic sovereignty allowing the poor and the rich to sleep under the bridge. Only some of the poor have to do it, and there is a right to nonsense, ladies and gentlemen, because the second pillar is ultimately a pillar for those businesses – how many are these already in the economy? - who's better. The third pillar is for an even smaller circle, for those who are better off in professional situations and who can take care of their own. What we want is for one generation after another to secure the pension system and, if we have difficulties with the age pyramid, to introduce a proper reform in time, so that the replacement of income is guaranteed in pension in the next few decades. Ladies and gentlemen! This reform is fair, socially balanced and begins to work for decades, and it is also a reform that brings infinity many positive benefits. We will realize part-time. This is something that the trade unions have called for for for decades. We have now succeeded in this regard. Education leave is a dream that could not be realized for decades. On Friday this week there will be a majority in this House who will make a decision on this. We will significantly improve the billing of child rearing and care periods, we will take all the employees into the pension system and integrate the minor employment – a very dangerous development – also into the social security system. In the last three years alone, the escape from labour law and the social system has increased by 30 percent. But above all, ladies and gentlemen, we have managed to take great steps towards harmonisation. I therefore place such a great deal of emphasis on it because these are steps, ladies and gentlemen, whom no one else in Europe has succeeded. No other political system, no other country has managed to bring together the system of public service and general social security in such reform steps as we are going to do this week. Ladies and gentlemen! We shall also, as has already been said, dispel these reform measures socially and ensure that the individual will also be able to live life in retirement, which corresponds to the life of active life. Ladies and gentlemen! What we're doing here is a policy for next generations. How much this corresponds to the facts, let me just demonstrate by one example: There is a single Member who is in the House as long as the deadline for the implementation of these reforms in 2020. We are making policy for generations who are not yet represented in this House, because of the responsibility of the future of these generations and Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[12:24]] Time-limitation request President Dr. Heinrich Neisser: Before I speak to the honourable Member Dr. Kier, I would like to say that before the entry into the agenda, Mrs. Dr. Petrovic has asked the Scientific Committee to report on a federal law amending the University Study Act, a period of up to 9. In December 1997, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the Member States of This request will be put to the vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure after the end of the negotiations. It is one of five delegates according to § 43 para. 3 the request made by the Rules of Procedure to hold a brief debate on this request for a time limit. The short debate will take place after completion of the agenda, but at the latest at 3 p.m., the vote on this request after the end of this debate. Please, Mr. Dr. Kier is speaking now.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e8918	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Klubobmann Kostelka and before him Mr Klubobmann Khol has put remarkable contradictions on the table here. Klubobmann Khol said that we urgently need this reform to ensure social systems. Klubobmann Kostelka has said that we would not have been obliged to act now. It is precisely in this area of tension that we have had time to act now, and the fact that we really need a reform, because the problems have been falling asleep for over ten years, and strange compromises have been made in this field of tension – strange compromises because the claimed objectives are not achieved by what is here. It must be assumed with absolute certainty that what is presented in so-called reform documents does not serve to achieve the stated objectives. That's clear. There are, in fact, a number of essential points which are forgotten in the discussion, which deals only with mutual debt allocation. For example, point one: equivalent replacement time financing. That sounds very professional, but I'll tell you what it means: We need a pension system, in which replacement times are also equipped with concrete financings and are not simply counted as times. This only takes place in part in the field of child rearing, in part. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: What does "very partial" mean?]] Adapting to the changed working world – this is just the most exemplary field in which failure is made. The attempt is being made to capture all incomes in a way, but only with strange figures such as service-like relationships and so on and so on. There is no question of harmonising the working world at all. I come to the point that needs to be raised today in the framework of civil servants' pensions. It is true that the first attempt was made to provide officials with throughput periods, but not until 2003 and with a transitional period until 2020, that is to say, for the next generation, but that one should actually have taken a completely different step, namely to harmonise the rights of civil servants and the rights of civil servants with those of the normal working world and not just to run around the pension area, was not at all the talk. If one does not harmonise the pay systems, then of course it is extremely difficult to harmonize the pension systems appropriately, but that would mean that one actually works in the whole and does not work in parts. Increase throughput periods: I have already mentioned it. Lifetime must be the goal. The fact that one may not be able to achieve this immediately with a first step may be true, but one must clearly say that there must be a lifetime, and then one can speak for over 18, 20 or 25 years. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Next point: significant increase in early retirement reductions. - Not a touch of it! 2 percent delayed, "restrained". The retirement age will not be increased by these measures and 4 percent would have been necessary. So it seems you meant, between 0 and 4 is the mean 2, so we do 2. But that 2 per cent then have no more effect and we only had it at 4 per cent, that is ignored. Ageing costs, increasing life expectancy: In none of these so-called reform laws, which we will be discussing this week, there is only a hint somewhere to be noticed that increasing life expectancy should be used as a dynamic element. Although it has been haled to the very end by dynamizations, there may also be dynamizations, which mean that due to the rising life expectancy pensions cannot be raised so high or even to the duration of retirement, which was apparently undesirable in the discussions, because it is a painful truth. These five points I mentioned to you are the succus of the study and the opinion of Professor Rürup, so they are by no means free from me. The central document with which it was worked contains these five points. And since these five points can hardly or only be found in the budget accompanying laws, you must not be surprised if the summary judgment of this expert is: Of the necessary 20% savings on the expenditure side, 3 percent will be achieved at best. And that's less than one sixth. A reform that achieves only one sixth of the aim of praising from this pult is more than great cows. Clubobmann Khol said I would have said "intrusive" in this context. On this point I give him the right. But "persistent" would mean defining clear goals. And these clear targets remain in effect. In effect, pension reform has fallen into a Bermuda triangle – a Bermuda triangle consisting of government, public service and social partners. And in this Bermuda triangle, the essential needs of this pension reform have disappeared. The absolutely scandalous and quite inconceivable to me is the behaviour of the Public Service Trade Union; I must express this with all the clarity. A trade union that does not represent the interests of its members, but only the interests of its leaders, is a union which must have more difficulty within the ÖGB than it seems to have, because it has enforced itself there. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on Green MEPs.]] In the context of these discussions, anyone from the public service trade union has mentioned only with one word the contract staff who also work in the public sector, but all live under the ASVG regime – but not protected, but announcing, and not with the privileges of a pension right, which dates from the 19th century. ==References== Of course, it is comfortable for those who have it, but it can no longer be held responsible. And if Mr Kostelka here thinks that the state task is not to be a night watchman state, we agree with him at 100 percent. Who is talking about the nightguard state when he believes that it is a state task to give guarantees that can also be redeemed? And what guarantee would there be in the area of pensions that we could redeem? – A basic guarantee for everyone we could guarantee! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on Green MEPs.]] But under the claim of state guarantee and social care to defend maximum pensions in the field of civil servants, that is not a social policy, nor is it a state task, because I understand that I am taking the same measure of old people and not the different levels of their former careers and social entitlements, because that is exactly what self-sufficiency would be meant for. Or do you imagine that a person who is paid in the highest civil service categories is unable to finance his income as well as his own self-sufficiency? It is precisely this group of persons that you address when you speak of self-sufficiency. This does not mean that the single parent in precarious working conditions is not able to do so, because it needs full solidarity. A new solidarity is required. And what you're showing here is the distortion of non-olidarity! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on Green MEPs.]] But a new solidarity as a state task, Mr Klubobmann Khol, which must be reflected both in the laws and in the basic consensus of the population, would require that you rethink. But what was presented and what we are going to discuss today and discuss throughout the week has not come about by rethinking, but by making any display window decorations. Of your reform, no more is left than a window decoration, which at best gives the impression that the Federal Government has not lost its face. And I'll tell you one thing: In fact, she has lost her face because she has claimed to want to achieve goals that she has not even achieved. I now come to a central point which has never been discussed; neither in the committees nor within the government, nor in the trade union federation, has this been addressed: the independent protection of women. This topic does not exist in your papers at all, because you hold firmly to an old age pension, which is based solely on the previously employed work. They cannot decide to develop an old-age insurance scheme which, without regard to employment, constitutes a basic guarantee. And such things exist in the living reality! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Without work?]] Such things exist in the living reality in Holland, which has also been quoted many times by members of the government groups. That is where the debate was started already in the first half of the 1980s, so we would not be the first. And, of course, this was taken as a foundation. Holland was not of the opinion that it can stay alone with this foundation, but has also developed creative possibilities and put services into space. This is usually called a dual system – a system in which the state guarantees that no one gets into misery, and in which the state allows everyone to continue their standard of living in old age. That is something we must make possible, but not be able to produce it with state resources. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I think it is a serious mistake to think that by means of state redistribution one can secure the standard of living in old age – a high standard of living in old age, as far as possible for all. It doesn't work. Then exactly that element that we need, namely the drive of the members of society, to do something for themselves, the need and the understanding that it is important to keep a high standard of living for life, to do something that cannot be turned back and waited for what you get. Mr. Klubobmann Khol! Of course, there is a need to take precautions in old age even without previous work. Or do you want to send old people under the Reichsbrück because they may have missed their life plan? – So this is not Christian, I tell you quite clearly. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on Green MEPs.]] Whoever agrees to his willingness to stand up for others moralizing conditions does not really act in solidarity, he does not act in the spirit of charity and he has a human image that is characterized by the contempt of the other and not by the recognition of his dignity. This is something that may be particularly important in this context, because it is also about values. These issues are also about values. How am I with the fellow human beings? I'm willing to stand up for her, or I say, Behind me the flood!Unknown term type: "%s".? – You have tabled a reform here, which you have said: We have for the time being delayed the flood, it is only coming in 2010. What you've done here and what you're going to present to us here – that's what everyone who's really busy with it – won't hold. They claim to make a reform, and already know that, before it comes into force seriously, it will only enter into force in 2003, you will need a next reform. You know that! And if you don't believe it, at least you believe it, at least the expert called by you as experts, Professor Rürup, who has said the unmistakably in various places, in newspaper interviews, in discussion events and also directly on television, in the live interview: This reform is not enough to achieve the goal. The question of women – I consciously touch them again – does not exist in your papers at all. Therefore, the phenomenon of multiple pensions in old age does not exist. But that would have been an interesting saving field. As you know, there are also survivors' pensions in addition to their own pensions, and sometimes, even often, the survivors' pension is unfortunately the only pension that women have. But there are also cases where private pensions and survivors' pensions meet. A widowed councillor, who was lucky that her husband was also a councillor, a widowed councillor, who was lucky that his wife was also a councillor, not only took up a rather comfortable pension, which was trained according to the categories of civil service rights, but also a rather comfortable retirement pension under civil servants' law. Would that not have been worth a cover, for example, or would it not have allowed the public service union to do so? – I ask you that very clearly. Perhaps the volume of savings you would have achieved would not have been particularly large, but any schilling that you would have won there could have been used for an independent safeguarding of all other people who were not in old age. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Above all, you would have created the certainty, the conviction, or perhaps aroused among people that you really mean it seriously with a reform that is trying to harmonise. This need for harmonisation has only been made clear at one point in view of this issue of double pensions. The model transferred to the range ASVG/GSVG looks quite different. There, on the one hand, this cumulation effect is from the outset a modest and on the other hand not so easily legible in this form. Therefore, a central allegation: You didn't even stripe the question of multiple pensions! And when we in the Committee – and I will come back to it again – tried to address this, we were able to discuss this during the session breaks, during the interruptions in the small talk, because the actual meetings were only more focused on creating the so-called simultaneousness of the reform. It has fascinated me very much, by the way, when Mr Feurstein said in committee, we must do so at the same time. . I understood him, he meant, in the Social Committee and in the Financial Committee. This simultaneousity, however, was a simultaneous distrust. If there had been a common political will and a genuine reform package, then it would have been indifferent in the implementation whether one committee had decided first and the other, or whether one day would have been in between. In the case of trusting compromises, there is no need for this simultaneousity! And that you urgently need this simultaneousity shows once again that your solution mechanisms no longer serve the service they are supposed to provide. And that is why I really felt more than nervous about this invoking of the discussion with the social partners today. Of course, we need to discuss with the social partners, but if they do not do anything and we wait for them to take out some "fine" compromise after twelve, then this is a abandonment of parliamentarianism! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on Green MEPs.]] This is, above all, – and this is even more annoyed – the delivery of the Republic to people who are no longer able to make fair, decent, solidaric and social compromises, i.e. to people who are actually in the end. And I do not want this statement to apply one day to the Republic of Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e9028	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Khol. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e9049	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! After long-term and laborious, strenuous and rewarding negotiations, we are now presenting a pension reform to the sovereign of the Republic, Parliament, with which we continue to strengthen social security in this country by further developing the stability course that we have taken in this government since 1995 and with which we secure and guarantee pensions in our home country. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Schmidt]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: How long, Andreas? Until the next election? How long?]] Ladies and gentlemen! All countries in Europe with an expanded social system suffer from the same phenomena: We have longer training periods – everyone who has children knows that a degree in higher education before 24, 25. Life is barely accessible – we have a shorter lifetime, and fortunately – because we all live healthier – we live longer. That is to say, a shorter working time has to finance a longer retirement period, we have an incredible inflow to the early retirement pension, and in all European countries, public pensions are a major problem. That means we're not a tragic individual case. We are, however, an individual case, ladies and gentlemen, when we succeeded in this pension reform, which has not succeeded in any other country in Europe: in public service, we must harmonise the pension system with the other pension systems, with the agreement of trade unionists. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Without social turbulence, without strikes, without days of action, we have laid down the harmonisation of all pension systems in important areas. It is often difficult for the citizens of this country to understand why a farmer who has worked hard all his life has a lower average pension than an employee or a commercial or, above all, an official in the public service. There are very different life expectancys and life-earning curves, and we finally had to realize, in the sense of justice, the programme which all governments have included in the government programme since 1980, that at least in the cornerstones for all Austrians there are the same principles for the design of old age security. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: Now at last!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We succeeded in calculating it. From 2020 onwards, the calculation periods in all systems will be the same with a grinding transition. That is to say, the basis for the pension calculation will be the same for the farmer, for the public staff, for the worker and for the employee. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In all systems we have in future the same reductions for fellow citizens who go in early retirement, i.e., before the 60. ==References====External links== Life as a man. The public officials have had these payments for several years. That is why I am saying this because it is always said that there are privileges here. In this respect, public officials have been given a good example and the fees have already shown their effect. The average age of entry in the public service has gone up, and I think we must also pay tribute to the public servants here. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We will have the same criteria for incapacity for work in the future. We will have the same criteria for retirement. I would like to expressly say here that this law also lays down that a politician who receives a pension as a public servant, as a trader, as a farmer or as a worker and as a worker, of course, is subject to retirement rules if he has a political income – which is often the case with mayors and what is causing us great problems. Many retired teachers become mayors with 60, but we need these fellow citizens. In the future, there will be rules of rest here, and that is justifiable. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: The ÖVP needs this! You're a mayor!]] Yes, we are a mayor party, Mr. Haselsteiner! We are proud to be a mayor! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! All countries have the same problems. We're not a tragic case. I would just like to say that many of you always believe that the Germans show us how to so to say "fake with the Goas". The Germans have not implemented the tax reform, on the other hand we have already done, and the Germans have also cancelled their pension reform these days. What we have done in difficult negotiations with the social partners – President Vergestnich is here – has not succeeded in other countries. We are the first country to introduce a calculation period for the calculation of pensions in the public service. Ladies and gentlemen! I think we have to say here, too: There has been a great deal of criticism of the trade unions lately. I have been a Christian trade unionist for over 20 years, I am a convinced trade unionist, and I know how important the union is in a democracy. Without the organized counter-power against the organized economic power, a partnership cannot work. And one cannot blame a trade union for pursuing the interests of its members with all the means available by law. That's their job. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: We don't blame that! All members!]] This is the task of the trade unions, just as it is the task of the Chamber of Commerce to represent its members' interests. That is why it is an illusion to believe that a further solution would have been better if we had made a reform without a union. For, ladies and gentlemen of the Liberal Group, the social costs of non-negotiated solutions can be viewed at the moment in France, where truck drivers are paralysing the entire French Republic. We don't want that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: Once extolled, always extolled!]] Of course, both government parties would have wished that what we have described in Rust as the basis for negotiation could have been implemented faster and to the fullest extent. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner.]] But it is democracy to listen to the other, to take the other person seriously with his interests and then to find here in Parliament a compromise based on the common good. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: No!]] And we found this one last night, which I greet. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: You haven't found anything here in Parliament!]] There are, of course, Krakeelers who would prefer other solutions. Other people are right, too, and I can imagine that. What I do not understand, however, is that the following solution is sought, even if it is visually very attractive: Every person receives the same pension of 11 000 S, and there is also private and occupational care, but without making the least proposal, such a system that exists, for example, in England – with very low pensions from the state, everything else is private – would be to finance. Yes Believe Are you really, ladies and gentlemen, of the liberals that it would be reasonable to pay a pension contribution without limiting the base of all incomes, for pensions which you no longer receive? In fact, the person who pays in full according to this model today without limitation would receive only 11 000 S after 40, 50 years, regardless of what he has paid. That is to say, according to this system, the boys should pay and the old who currently have their pension should tremble that they will no longer receive a pension as they have today. So the boys pay, and the old ones tremble! [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: Now the boys tremble!]] This cannot be the model of a pension reform. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I'd like to say something: In the last few weeks and months, I have heard a lot of inconspicuous remarks about the public service. There has been a demonization of the public service and a het against the public service which I wish to reject with all my determination. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! So that this is also clarified: I have been expelled from the public service many years ago and, of course, I have no right to an official's pension against the broadcasts of a party that always sends half-truths. Just, I've met the public service from inside and outside. And there I just can't be satisfied with such sentences, as according to "daily everything" of 20. April 1997: "We have a state that one third of the officials do not work at all, one third shifts service by regulation and one third does work for the others." ==References====External links== June 1997: Save 40 percent of officials! "Jörg Haider outlined at a press conference on Tuesday,...: through the natural departure and privatisation of certain areas... 40 percent of all officials could be saved." And he went on to say on the 18th. August 1997: Officials are "not accountable". ==References====External links== October 1997: "bureaucratic insanity". ==References====External links== June 1997: No side work for officials. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] And what hits the barrel is then in the "standard" of 20. June 1997 in which Mr. Haider calls officials: "The carnival is out!" [[Call:Happiness he's out]] Ladies and gentlemen! These are hettirates against public servants who have earned our university professors just as little as our post officials, our security officials, the nurses, the doctors, the nurses – these are all public servants! The fact that there is half a decent quality of life in our country we owe to the public service, and we thank him for that. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: This is the repair test!]] I therefore call for the anti-public service to be stopped, because without him our home country would be an uncertain home, a disorderly home, and not as socially just a home as we currently have. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to say that, with this pension reform, we respect the generation agreement, which is that young people in this country also have the prospect of getting a decent pension. [[Call to the liberals, hypocrites!]] And that's what we're up for! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: This is white cynicism! A shame!]] There have been a number of proposals that we have rejected to take away something from the old people. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: A real hypocrite!]] We have guaranteed that pensions as they stand will continue to be paid, and we have guaranteed that pensions will continue to be increased and adjusted. That is why no person in this Republic who has been granted a pension should tremble. We will continue to pay them. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: That's worse than the Vranckky at the time! That's where Vrannitzky was holding back!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The reform covers the public service, the reform covers the farmers, the reform covers the self-employed, and the reform covers the workers and employees. And what I am particularly grateful for: that we have put the new forms of independence into our social system ahead of time. I think it is a great thing that young people who have multiple service providers can now be insured independently and thus acquire health and pension insurance. I think it is a great thing that we will allow the small workers to get a pension for relatively little money. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: How do you want to pay this?]] That is why all those who said today that we had done nothing for the single women are wrong. The self-employed workers, who can come to pension and health insurance for relatively little money, will register this very carefully and will also appreciate it. [[Abg. Oils: That's not true!]] And we've done something else for the women: Child replacement times will be evaluated at 8,000 S per month in the future. That is, the pensions of mothers with children will be 20 percent higher, and that is great! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I come to the conclusion. Every generation must secure the social state. This requires a powerful economy, it requires a economical state, and this requires a fair system. I believe that we are discussing and – hopefully – discussing the pension reform that we are developing in these days. – have decided to make that contribution that some of our predecessors – I am right in giving Mr Kier – have not made. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: Who were the predecessors?]] – The predecessors were not you, Mr Hazelsteiner, but I was not. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: Yes, of course! Black and red! For 30 years!]] [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] I quote Rudolf Edlinger, the Minister of Finance, whom I would like to thank as well as State Secretary Ruttenstorfer and Mrs Hostasch as well as Willi Molterer: We must now make the pension reform so that our successors do not face the same problems in seven or eight years' time as we do today. This was therefore a forward-looking and right policy, and anyone interested in justice and social security in our home country should support this reform.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e9437	Mr Oellinger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e9458	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I shall try to get meticulously to where Mr Klubobmann Khol has stopped, in his homage to the union, what happened in the negotiation process with the trade unions in the last few weeks. Mr Khol! I share a lot of what you said, but I would like to remind you: This has actually started differently, namely, with a rusty government clause, which was characterized by the firm intention to enforce this package, which was decided in Rust, regardless of whether there are interest groups that do not agree with it. That was the beginning of the debate. It has been put before the trade unions and other interest groups and has told them: You can strangle it, but with this package it remains! Just calmly negotiate the key data in this package! That this concept could not go on was clear: because there were interests at stake here. And I do not share the view of the critics of trade union policy, who say that the trade union could have moved a little towards this government package. But I'll try to differentiate that. In my opinion, the real problem lies in the trade union attitude – and I have repeatedly emphasized this for many years in this House – not in the area of the ASVG-pensions, but in the context of an official union, which in fact has once again understood how best to safeguard the interests of its senior officials of all interests in this union. This is the real problem, and I have repeatedly emphasized this in all the pension debates we have held in this House in recent years. And this is also included in the annex of this pension concept unfortunately. It is the trade union officials in the public service, but the government has also been able to maintain its privileges to a large extent. This cannot only be seen in this small aspect of political privileges, which have remained completely unharmed by the debate, when it comes to politicians being allowed to fully enjoy their pension – unlike the officials who are expected to be removed for at least a certain period of time if they are in receipt of income. That's what happened to the politicians. This is just a small part of the debate. What I want to point out is something bigger: We are discussing a pension reform here, in which it is clear that if you are allowed to believe it, then the generation now in work should have guaranteed its own age assurance through these reforms. But no one says that we have a generation already in retirement where there is a very uneven distribution of opportunities and income. No one says that the current working generation, which is to secure the future of its own pension now, pays full benefits for those already in retirement and on the other hand has less benefits to expect. No one says that! No one also says that at the beginning of the debate what has been introduced by the trade unions is that the best pension system can only be maintained if it succeeds in securing employment. And there are also some key points in this package concerning officials, on the basis of which it becomes apparent that you are obviously very little concerned with this question. You have spoken very often of harmonisation, and I am quite prepared to support you: In one area you have actually achieved a success, and that is the calculation period. In a single area, you have managed to get out of a system that I believe is actually an outdated system based on privileges. He did not succeed in the retirement age, he did not succeed with all the other key data, such as the maximum contribution basis, and he did not succeed in you – and Mr Kier rightly pointed this out – in what should be the basis of the pension system, namely in the field of service law, in the protection of workers, in the employment relationship as such. There is no harmonisation. In the future, we have at least three classes of employees in the public service through the measures that have been agreed at all last minute: officials under old service law and pension insurance contributions increased in relation to the ASVG, then officials with lower pension insurance contributions and finally the contract staff. There is no approach to harmonisation here, but instead of two large groups, we have three large groups in the future. I think that indicates that, and that was also my question to you, Mr State Secretary, on the Committee: Would it not have been more reasonable to start the pension debate here in this country with something like a master plan, to try to understand what you want? I also miss what you have debated in recent months. After all, Mr. State Secretary and Mrs. Minister: The Ruster Klausur has not declared itself the goal of achieving harmonisation. That was not the goal of the Ruster Klausur! They have left the Ruster Klausur with plans of different calculation periods for the officials and for the ASVG-pensionists. First of all, you said that officials should be subject to different calculation periods than the ASVG-pensionists, and first you have scratched the curve towards harmonisation very slowly. I think it should also be expected by a government that it will become a little clearer about its objectives in terms of harmonisation. I come back again to the question I have not been explained and you have not answered in any way whether the safeguarding of a future pension system for the generation now in work, which at the same time has to pay the pensions of the current generation in retirement, should not be linked to an assessment of the existing pension systems. One would then also come to an answer to the question that many in this country ask themselves, whether the differences currently between low and high pensions – I only need to take back the worker and farmers' pensions, which are the lowest, and the pensions in the highest official sector – are not much higher than the differences between the incomes in working life. In working life we have differences in wages and salaries of, I would say once, usually 1 to 10 or 1 to 15, so between 10 000 S and 100 000 S, 150 000 S for full-time work. In the current pension system, however, we have differences that go from 1 to 20 to 1 to 30. And if the pension system not only enhances the injustices, the differences in working life, but even further increases, I have to ask the question whether it would be highly appropriate to talk about the injustices in the existing pension system as well, that it would be quite possible to re-adjust a lot without intervening in individual pension rights – for example, by removing the pensionist deduction amount for all pensions over 30 000 S, above the ASVG ceiling. We are always discussing as if it was just about bringing officials and the ASVG-pensionists into comparability. It is also about multi-pensions, and it is about those very important areas that no one here in the House is discussing: the fact that there are public, state-based, banks, insurance companies, and I do not just want to know about this in the example of our former Chancellor – there are pensions for multi-annual employment, for a period of employment of a few years, the 200 000 S, 300 000 S. No one's talking about it! What are we sitting here together to talk about the future of the pension system, if we are not prepared to look at the fact that there are areas - not only because it is also the former Chancellor - that are out of control and obviously your willingness to influence it? We have the problem of multiple pensions in the public service and also in areas close to the state, for example, resulting from the meeting of a private pension and widower's or widow's pension. In this respect, income levels in the pension area of 50 000 S, 60 000 S or 70 000 S, although the own pension, if it is 30 000 S or 40 000 S, would already be high enough, as I mean. No one of you is discussing the fact that it would be appropriate and socially fair to change something, not the small widower's and widower's pensions, where it is a matter of reaching a pension of 10 000 S or 15 000 S due to the death of a spouse. It is a question of melting up and smelting justifiably, because this is a question of social justice and the responsibility to that generation that is currently financing this pension system – also to the future generations. You didn't even discuss all this with this pension reform concept. You are not even ready to discuss it. However, I believe that we need to discuss these very questions when we are actually talking about a sustainable pension system that is solid and sustainable. You will not be able to refuse this debate over the next few years, even if you still stress a hundred times that you have implemented a pension reform that is permanent, which will secure the future for us. You will not be able to escape this debate because we will force it on you because the people will force it on you – not only Mr Haider, who wants to make this a subject of friction between generations. Ladies and gentlemen! It's about more: It is not only about harmonisation within pension systems, but also about harmonisation within what has always been called a generation contract. Since, I must tell you, there is not enough substance to be felt, not only in the field of public services, where there are no measures to be taken to ensure that young people can actually be put back into employment. On the occasion of another debate on the public service, we have discussed the extent to which the number of apprentices in the public service has fallen in a sub-sector, namely in the university sector. What measures do you want? Are you going to make visible to the young people in order to explain to them that you are quite willing to strengthen training in the public service? I mean, the public service also has its obligation not only to force the private sector to train apprentices. – There are no measures, there is no talk about public service. While we are discussing the private sector, which has such obligations, you are not prepared to see that the public service, at least in the training of young people, cannot escape its responsibility. I come to the real problem I want to address: You have not succeeded in harmonising employment policy and pension policy. Yesterday evening I saw in "Time in Picture 2 Mr. Vice-Chancellor Schüssel, who explained that one of the most essential tasks was to curb the "earlypensionitis". [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Good man, very good man!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Yes!]] – It is a pity that Mr Vice-Kanzler Schüssel is not present today in the decision-making process of this law, for I read in the 1st reading. Budgetary accompanying law that one of the most essential measures of this budget accompanying law, Mr Khol, is the early retirement of teachers – as an additional measure, as an additional offer. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Either you didn't read it or you didn't understand!]] You will not tell me, Mr Khol, that this is a stupid measure, but You can't go here with your party and with your policy and explain that it's about limiting early pensions and offering a special offer to the teachers who have the only purpose of getting more teachers into the pension early on. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: No! Have you not read it or not understood it?]] Of course! There you can read and interpret what you want: That's it. This is a fact, Mr Khol. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: No! Change the age pyramid, and that cost-neutral!]] The age pyramid, Mr Khol, should be changed everywhere, not just with teachers. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: But that does not make the measures wrong!]] We also have the problem in the private sector – and I am again in the employment field – that, although it seems to you in 1997 in the field of youth unemployment, because of the billions you invest, you will be able to improve a lot, which at the same time corresponds to the fact that older unemployed people – particularly the responsibility of Mrs Hostasch – have failed to slow down the increase. We have seen a rapid increase in the number of older unemployed people, and the measures you propose here – we are not discussing this today, but on Friday – are in no way appropriate to intervene effectively. I believe that you have managed to achieve a point which I recognise in summary on the pension issue: the calculation period and thus the exit from an old system and the entry into a new system. But you have left so many tasks open. You have, with all that you have listed with the officials in recent months – that was not only the colleague Haider – these were also your statements from the government, which was your attempt to drive the union into a corner – for a lot of uncertainty in the public service. You have not succeeded in making a concept credible, for example, in clarifying the issues of Pragmatization in the public service forward-looking in a statement of intent – what is it about in the future, what areas do you want to pragmatize, which you want to pragmatize – in which you clarify the prospects of a pension reform and in which you link the pension reform with the employment system. They say – I am again with honourable Members Khol – that every generation must secure its social state. But the condition for this, Mr Khol, is that we move on to the employment issue. And if I summarize this budget – not only the accompanying law we are discussing today – then I can only say that many of the measures you have taken concerning employment policy were counterproductive, that you have not taken a step forward, that you have created a great deal of uncertainty in the generation contract concerning the last few months, because, as I think, the young generation is not asking itself wrong whether the measures and policies you have presented in the past few weeks in the zigzag can actually be guaranteed their pensions, especially if their employment is not secured. They have failed to give a credible perspective that would have to go far beyond the question of pensions, the question of employment. That's the real problem. That is why I believe that what you have achieved in this small part of the world will not be enough to ensure that pension schemes are safeguarded permanently. We Greens will vote against this pension reform because, although it contains quite positive things in very small sub-areas, it is missing in the sum of that capacity for the future, the sustainability that we must expect.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e9568	The next speaker is Mr Ruttenstorfer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e9589	Mr President. High house! I am aware of the fact that the 1. Budgetary accompanying law and the pension reform provided for therein mean a profound change for officials, especially as it fundamentally alters a system that has been practised for decades. This is, however, necessary, as I believe. A lot of things are changing around us. We must make reforms to modernise Austria so that we are among the most successful countries in the future, including our youth, also for tomorrow. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] The Federal Government has become known for this in Rust. Therefore, together with the trade unions, we are now implementing the following points: First: A conversion period will be introduced for officials. Secondly, In the future, civil servants' pensions will be increased as much as those of workers and employees. Thirdly, We also introduce pension provisions for officials comparable to the ASVG. High house! Let me now comment in detail on the starting point, the objective, of this reform. What does the starting situation look like? – The Federal Government’s net expenditure on civil servants’ pensions is increasing sharply: without reforms, around 6 percent per year. This means, however, that the proportion of the Federal government's net expenditure on civil servants' pensions in gross domestic product would rise from 1.4 percent today to 1.7% by 2030. However, this would limit the scope for financing investment, education, employment policy and other measures that we want to take. We can't answer that. Our aim is to keep the Federal Government's net expenditure on civil servants' pensions at the present level, at 1.4 percent to 1.5 percent, and this – I assure you – will be achieved by this reform. The way we want to go is through clear markings, namely protection of trust, harmonisation and social balance. For the protection of trust: We confess and have always stressed that we do not intervene in existing pensions. This is essential for today's pensioners. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] For future pensioners, tangible changes, i.e. throughput, will only begin in 2003 and then take place gradually. To harmonise, we will also introduce key elements from the ASVG system for officials, namely the calculation, as mentioned above, of up to 18 years in 2020, pension provisions analogous to ASVG and also the net adjustment of pensions according to ASVG. Social balance: As a reform measure, we have chosen the calculation because, after very detailed analyses, we have recognized that it is more effective in the field of higher incomes in the public sector than in the smaller ones. And we wanted to ensure social balance in this reform. In addition to this instrument, we have now introduced a further guarantee, namely the cover with which we guarantee that pensions up to 10 000 S are reduced by no more than 1 per cent by the calculation, those up to 28 000 S by no more than 7 per cent, provided that these pensions are taken up by 2020. For us, this measure is important in order to ensure social balance in any case. The alternative to this cover, namely to remain in the existing system and to introduce higher pension contributions, was not acceptable to us, as it would only have had a positive effect on higher incomes and would also have contradicted the objective of harmonisation. But we didn't want to. In contrast, we have put in place some additional harmonisation steps: firstly, the billing of child training periods from employment relationships in the private sector, i.e. before the service was started in the public sector, second, the improved protection of incapacity for work, thirdly, the improved crediting of ASVG pre-service periods and fourthly – that is a very essential point for me – the reduction of pension contributions for younger officials – i.e. for those who can no longer benefit from this cover – to the ASVG level, from 11.75 percent to 10.25 percent, from the year 2000. This means that from the year 2000, the younger officials in the public service will experience a 1.5 percent increase in their remuneration, so that the increase in the salaries of the young people – an essential goal of ours – is actually carried out. High house! Let me summarize: With this reform, we are stabilizing expenditure on public service pensions up to the next millennium. At the same time, with this harmonisation, we are taking an important step towards permeability between public service and the economy. I mean, we are making an essential contribution to modernising our country.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e9663	Thank you, Mr State Secretary. The next speaker is Mr Dr. Novotny. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e9687	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! ==References== Budgetary accompanying law, which we are discussing here today, has almost two parts: a part of which is of immediate importance, and one of long-term importance. Of particular importance is the increase in public service remuneration, which has been made as a result of the wage round, although it is not entirely natural – in times when many other areas are nominally frozen but should be marked – that the public service is also participating in the economic dynamic as well as the other employees in Austria. We welcome this development and believe that there has been a regulation that has the right level. The second area – and this is the central issue of this plenary session today – is the public service pension reform. I would like to start with something that I consider important, given my personal experiences during the many hours and also nights of the negotiations, namely those who have worked as actors, especially for their use. This applies, of course, to chancellor climate and vice chancellor bowls, which have, so to speak, represented a powerful team at the head of the coalition and which have maintained all attempts to separate this functional top of the coalition. I believe that this is also a point that has contributed to the success of these negotiations. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I would also like to thank Mr Ruttensdorfer and also the Minister Molterer, who has negotiated with a great deal of expertise for the public sector, just as Mrs Hostasch has negotiated in the ASVG area. You may know Bert Brecht's poem "Questions of a Thinking Workers". This poem is about who actually built the pyramids: Was it Pharaoh, or was it the builders who gathered the stones together? I would also like to say: This pension reform is the work of the political negotiators, but many of the stones were towed effortlessly by officials who worked with enormous efforts to fix formulations at midnight or after midnight. They are not just lawyers and experts, they are also affected by the staff in the offices. Some of the experts who have worked very significantly are sitting here with us today. That is why, I believe, it is fair for Parliament to thank these people, too, for the great commitment they have made as officials. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The negotiations were to be conducted on the one hand by the government, but were later carried out by representatives of the relevant committees and by the trade unions, with three negotiating partners: the Public Service Trade Union, the Municipal Workers' Trade Union and the postal trade union. The railway union was not represented, since the reforms in the railway sector are essentially already being completed, so that there is no need for negotiation. [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] I would like to say very clearly that it was partly impressive negotiations; it was also very touching in the last round of the Court of Justice Do not say goodbye. He is certainly in many respects a man of another time who knows it himself, but he is a man who undoubtedly deserves respect. I would particularly like to stress the constructive role played by President Verzellnich and colleague Nürnberger, since it was the task of these two to link the areas of public service and ASVG. I believe that they have acted in the interests of the whole state, both as a successful representative of interests and – and this is important – in the interests of the whole state, and have proved that social partnership in Austria is not an empty word, that it is more than just a partial representation of interests, that it means economic responsibility. And that, I think, is an important result that we have seen here too. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Perhaps on the question: Why even this reform? It has already been cut several times today. We must point to the expert hearing, which has shown that pension reform is currently at present in Europe, not only from aspects of demographics, but also – and this is often overlooked – because the new pensions, which are growing, are fortunately higher than the earlier ones, because the incomes of pensioners have increased, while at the same time, the trend is that long-term growth rates throughout Europe are significantly lower than at the time when these systems were designed. While we say today that 2 percent long-term growth is a realistic and quite good value, we may have been able to expect 4 percent earlier. That is, we are dealing with structural breakdowns. And now it is about keeping the charging procedure to which we are confessing functional in these structural breaks. And I would like to point out – because he has been mentioned more often today – that Professor Rürup has made it very clear that one of the advantages he recognises in this reform – both in the ASVG sector and in the field of civil servants – is that it has succeeded in maintaining the payment procedure in its functioning and thereby strengthening it as a basic prerequisite for our social security. This is an essential result of this reform. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In this context, I would like to point out that the FPÖ has repeatedly used the capital coverage procedure as an alternative, that at least half or two thirds of the capital coverage procedures... – not only in addition, because that is the development that we already have. [[Abg. May. Trattner: In addition!]] There are well known pension funds in Austria, and I also recognize them. They want the levying procedure to be reduced to a marginal position, that it essentially goes after the capitalisation process. And you know very well that the problem is that a generation, a large generation, is being used twice for payment, and at the same time the system is in a more uncertain state, as is evident in these days. That means you have to say very clearly here... [[Abg. May. Trattner: Transitional arrangements, Professor!]] — transitional arrangements do not help against the problem which exists in this context, namely that construction would be linked in parallel to a charging procedure with enormous costs that are unrealistic. Under the title "Three-pillar model", you really want to disassemble the charging process. This would also mean disassemblying social security in Austria. And that must be said very clearly once. The ambiguity of the argumentation has shown itself to Dr. Haider again today, because the reform was too hard on the one hand, and then he again pointed out that everything was actually not enough. There you can only say: The motto that you're always against everything – whatever happens, I'm against it! – is perhaps a good motto for an opposition, for some opposition parties, but it is not a motto for a responsible government to take action. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: Not even that!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to add another point which is very important to me in this context, namely the relationship between the State and its officials. To prove that this relationship has been disturbed in some parts, it was not only the unsatisfying events at the trade union day of the public service union, but I must say in all fairness: You always hear only those with the truffle pipe, the others you don't hear; it wasn't that that went so to say across, they were groups. [[Abg. May. Trattner: It was the most!]] But this is, after all, a phenomenon that must be taken seriously. What we see here is the effect of a large, also social, structural breach, in which the image of an authority-oriented State servant, also with good sides, goes towards a modern service area, adding that it is a very special service area, because it is a service for the general public, and it is very important tasks that are carried out by the public service. They are services that contribute very much to the standard quality of a country in the economic sector, and they are services that also contribute significantly to the social quality of a country. I believe that the conclusion that we have to keep in mind – and this is not a matter that concerns a party alone – is: Let us be careful to vote in a cheap civil service hat, as some magazines like to do. I personally recognize the concept of professional civil service, but no doubt in a new, modernized form. Therefore, the following The public service may and should not be a state in the state. But it is natural to recognize special features of his activity. Therefore, I think it is very important to see the right to pension together, as well as the active area, say: We have special aspects of activity, but we have foundations in the field of work, in the pension area, which must be the same for all Austrians. I think that is the crucial point as to how to understand harmonisation in a proper sense. I think that is also the right way for public service. Because you also have to pay attention: Public service is made up not only of officials but increasingly also of contract staff. The question of harmonisation is therefore something that the public service itself determines. I therefore believe that the harmonisation we are now carrying out, although some representatives have even opposed it, is ultimately also in the interest of the public service as a whole. I would like to add: One striking experience – I think it was something I had known before – was that in these negotiations I had become so immeasurably aware of the complexity of official service rights with dozens of special arrangements, and I have always admired the Secretary of State for the State that, since he held this office, he has already been able to acquire all of this, which may have been, in principle, secret knowledge of a few officials in Austria, with the effect that even within the public service, every part of the public service feels disadvantaged to the others, because none of the others really know what is being played. [[Abg. Boy: You decided! Didn't you know?]] I really don't want to steal from responsibility. It is quite right that I was probably involved in some of these complications. There's a little bit of the Goethe word: Laws are inherited like a similar disease. These are all things, wherever one is explained, that has been done because in 1948 something was exchanged. I believe that there is really only one solution, namely that we are seeking a fundamental modernisation of the right to serve and that the first step after harmonisation is a modern right of service in the field of contract staff. This is also foreseen, which has also been promised to the public service. I think that this is also an important contribution to improving the climate in this area, because precisely because of this uncertainty and because of these many special arrangements this latent discomfort arises that one always thinks: Actually, it has another one better – without knowing the other area. I therefore believe that this is an essential point that we can, as it were, act as an agenda. In total, I think we can assume that we have succeeded in creating more justice with harmonisation. I think it is very positive that we have achieved that there is now a conversion period in all systems. I would also like to point out, by the way, that the system, as we now have it, is more than the one that has been approved in Rust. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: But only in a few points!]] - But that's crucial. It was always said that one had gone under the demands of rest. - Of course! That's quite clear. In the course of negotiations there are more and more points in which compromises are made; otherwise we should not negotiate. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Schmidt.]] Mrs. Colleague! The crucial point – and this was also known to everyone – is that we have succeeded in harmonizing the road map already this year. If we did not succeed, it would in reality have been a topic that we should have talked about in 2020. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: But the timetable is also...!]] Of course, not everything was taken over to one, so to speak, as was planned in Rust. That would not have been desirable either, for that would only have meant that there was no serious negotiations. There have been very serious negotiations, and in this crucial point, I believe, we have achieved a success that goes beyond rest, which should not be underestimated. We now have the timetable for full harmonisation of ASVG and public sector on key issues of the calculation periods. That's the fishing point. This is also the system question posed by the trade unions. This system question has been answered positively. I am surprised that this has actually fallen largely in the public debate. We have achieved even more than was originally expected by many. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The second point which cannot be underestimated is that there will now be uniform pension increases in all systems. That too, if you remember, was the occasion for long discussions, for long and latent mutual distrust. This, in turn, is a very crucial point of harmonisation and of course – and this is ultimately a matter of more open society. It must also be seen: Harmonization does not happen as a purpose of its own or because one is a little presumptuous to the other, but it is behind the concept of harmonisation that there is an open society in which in principle all opportunities are to be equal. Of course, one differentiates according to activity, but one does not differentiate by introducing a boxing system. In the sense of making a way to a more just, so that we can also move towards a more powerful and open society, I believe great progress has been made, to which we like to confess.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e9859	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Schweitzer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 9 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e9881	Mr President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Novotny said that this three-pillar model would not be eligible for funding. They do not have to go very far, only to Switzerland, to find that this system already exists there and that a changeover has worked without a complaint within 12 years. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: To another capital structure!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schwarzenberger.]] We already know that there is a need for some start-up aid, but the capital for this would be easy to raise over the backlogs of the National Bank, Mr Novotny. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They have already noted that this money could be used for this. Mr Novotny! But what causes enormous costs and what you were not willing to clean up are the pension privileges of politicians. Mr Kostelka is not right if he claims that it is not true that 600 000 S and more than 600 000 S are granted each year. I'll tell you that again. For 291 politicians, Mr. Nowotny, over 1 billion schillings were paid in retirement for the period 1989 to 1993. During the same period, contributions to these 291 persons were received about 180 million schilling. That is to say, more than 800 million schillings had to be shot by the taxpayer for political rest, ladies and gentlemen, for the payment of these 291 political pensions. It's not too expensive for you! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. stupid.]] We have not decided on this law, on the basis of which it is happening, Mr President. We were against this legal regulation, but will primarily benefit your "politsauriers" for which you are still willing to spend enough tax resources at the expense of the many "small" taxpayers in that country. [[Complaints with the liberals]] [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: But cash you do!]] Their phrase, which does not refer to it, is one that has not increased the acceptance in the final effect of the data subjects and has not been able to close the hole that is already starting to clap. Mr Rürup said yesterday and today that 20 percent of discharge could not be achieved – as was the case – but only lean 3 percent of the discharge was left. This has once again enabled the government to achieve, in the run-up to this reform, this so-called reform, although all but no solution. First of all, we have raised expectations and then, at the end of the day, let everyone down with a reform that I do not think deserves this name. Only the original intention to leave the older officials such as Dohr and Co unscathed could be quite fulfilled, ladies and gentlemen. These benefit from the salary system imposed against our will, which is characterised by the principle of service age. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rosemarie Bauer.]] Your colleague Bauer, have you ever looked at this? The remuneration system, which was characterised by the principle of the age of service adopted by the Coalition in 1994, has once again greatly improved the situation for these officials, by the staff allowances which have been set up after the term of service, which means that, for example, a young department head, aged about 30 years or so, receives a similar activity associated with the same responsibility for 3 157 S per month, while an older department head, aged about 60 or so, receives 20 751 S for the same activity. This also has an impact on the pension. How do you argue, Mr President, where you are always talking about harmonisation, that there is such a different payment for the same work, which then becomes pensionable? That's still valid, and you haven't removed such things. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This is what you decided to do in 1994 to make sure that you can no longer finance all of this. While you now leave the elderly in elevated positions to get away with those who can retire with 100 percent of their last relationship, you meet the young officials several times with this reform. At the time, these many young officials were immediately recruited as officials at the request of the Court of Auditors, because it was found that if they were hired as contract staff, the costs were too high. At the time, these new recordings have led to savings of up to 1 865 S per official per month. These officials, who immediately hired you as an official, because you had to pay less for them, must today be accused of falling to the State. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Mühlbachler.]] And now this reform is being carried out on the back of these young officials, Mr Mühlbachler. You know very well that these are particularly affected by this reform, that the income of these officials aged between 30 and 40 years is really far less than that of other older officials and also of contract staff. The argument of the better pension is no longer valid for these. At that time, when they were employed under these conditions, this argument was put first and foremost. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we call for freedom of movement: Indeed, let us separate ourselves from this system of payments! This payment system is simply no longer a contemporary one, because, as we have recently experienced, it has produced massive group egoisms, because this has led to enormous conflicts within the Austrian population. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. In concrete terms, our proposal is: This three-pillar model is to be fully applicable to all new staff and officials already in service under 35 years of age. This consists, as already explained, of a first pillar, which is financed by means of the payment procedure and which provides a basic pension, a second pillar for an old-age pension scheme through pension funds and a third pillar for self-sufficiency, for which additional tax incentives can be created, but that is what has been put off in recent years. For officials between 35 and 40. The maximum contribution basis applicable at the time of entry into force is valid and older officials are allowed to expire as usual. Ladies and gentlemen! This free system would actually safeguard pensions for future generations. It would be very reasonable to take a closer look at this proposal and, in the case of further reforms, to include these liberal thoughts in the considerations and decisions, should it not be possible for us to decide for ourselves the next time what pension reform is going to take place in Austria. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer once again to the political privileges mentioned at the outset and to present here a motion for a resolution in the context of this pension reform debate:
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e10000	The motion for a resolution just read has been properly tabled, is also supported accordingly and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Dr. Stummful is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Schweitzer! We will pay very close attention to whether the speed in Salzburg will miss out on its annual website!]] [[Abg. Aumayr: Why should he?]] [[Further calls and appeals to the representatives of the ÖVP and the liberals.]] [[President Dr. Brauneder gives the bell sign.]] President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e10055	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to make two comments on the comments made by my previous speaker. The first comment: He has once again provided proof that the Freedom Party has always said only half-truths. He rightly pointed out – that was right – that Professor Rürup had criticised the pension reform yesterday, that it would be too low for him, instead of the 20% savings he was seeking, there was only one out of 3 percent. The first part was correct. But he kept the second part silent. Professor Rürup also said that there is a considerable step forward in the field of civil servants' pension rights, Mr President. It would be honest and fair to say the second sentence as well. The second sentence is a compliment for this public service reform, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] The second comment: He has announced here the great pension model of the FPÖ. Ladies and gentlemen, I can tell you one thing: When we discussed the whole issue yesterday and yesterday in the Committee, the FPÖ asked for the end of the debate twice, very quickly. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] There would have been the possibility to discuss this model intensively. What you are doing here is just political activism and not anymore, Mr Schweitzer. You have to make this accusation happen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] If you had put it in the committee! But there you didn't want to discuss, you wanted to pull off a spectacle here today. But I already want it to be used, because any further word to my previous speaker would be a lost word. Ladies and gentlemen! On the subject itself: In fact, I believe that with this reform and the one we decide on in the field of the ASVG, the tradesmen and the farmers, we are taking a very important step into the next millennium. We have the problem that a number of trends in economic, social and social development in the field of old-age care have been reflected with incredibly strong financial consequences. Just look at the development of the last 25 years, from 1970 to 1995! I just call you three numbers: First number: On average, 25 years ago, people entered work three years earlier. Through longer school and study periods, they enter working life three years later 25 years later. Second number: 25 years ago, people retired four years later, when this is the case now. That is, 25 years later, namely 1995, people retired four years earlier than they did in 1970. Third number: 25 years ago, the average pension period was four years less than today. As a result of a happily increased life expectancy, the average pension is now taken up by four years longer than it was 25 years ago. In other words, three years later work began, a four-year-old stopover with work and four-year-long pension. Ladies and gentlemen! This is a dramatic development to take account of this pension reform. Now I would like to admit to you that, of course, far-reaching reforms would have been possible. But this is also a question of political culture and the social climate. I would like to admit that I too would have preferred to make some reforms faster, but at the same time I admit that I am very much valued by social consensus, the social climate and social peace in this country. As far as civil servants' pension rights are concerned, we really must say: This is a fundamental change, a fundamental change in the system. If we come from the base of the last monthly reference in a few years to a conversion period of up to 18 years, this is a total system change, as has not yet been achieved in any single country of Europe. I believe that this too should be recognized, especially the ladies and gentlemen of the opposition who seem to be blind on an eye. We are the only country in Europe that has taken these reform steps. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Let me also say one to the processes of the last days. I think they were characterized by the effort not to endanger social peace and social consensus in this country, and I too have been very much worth it. That is why in the last few days, yesterday and yesterday, we have repeatedly had to interrupt committee deliberations. I would have preferred it if all of this had gone faster. But, ladies and gentlemen, we must take note – and I say this very often and also in public discussions: In Parliament, it is very often not the objectively best solutions, but those who find a majority here in the House. This is quite simple and sober the truth: It will be decided that there will be a majority here in the House. And if so many people were still saying that another solution would have been better, in which democracy the majority decides, and that was so yesterday and yesterday. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Reichhold.]] – How is your democratic understanding, Mr. Collegue? So should not the majority decide, should the minority decide? [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Because your conviction is too low to convince people!]] But yours is much smaller. Yours is much smaller, Mr. Cot. That's your problem. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Call to the liberals: You don't have one at all!]] Ladies and gentlemen! But let me also say something as one that took part in the negotiations from the time the government proposal was in Parliament: I believe that this public service pension reform can only be one step in a comprehensive public service reform. I agree with Mr Ruttenstorfer that we need further reform. I believe that we must first take reform steps as regards the salary scheme in the public service sector, we must take reform steps in accordance with the principle: More performance orientation and less age! We have many, tens of thousands, even younger public officials, in all areas, and this willingness to do so should also be in line with the salary schedule. We must therefore move away from the age principle to a stronger performance orientation. Secondly, we need to change the life-time curve. We have the same problem in the private sector that many times the life-time curve and the life-performance curve do not match. Here, too, adjustments are necessary, but they cannot be made from today to tomorrow, for which longer periods are necessary. In the next 10 to 20 years, we will have to adapt life-time curves and life-performance curves. Let me also say one thing – I also said this in the negotiations –: I was already very concerned when I saw in the negotiations the climate that obviously exists between employers – public hands – and workers – employees of the public service. I have also said publicly – and this is not an accusation to State Secretary Ruttenstorfer, who has only recently performed this function: If such a climate existed in a private company between employers and employees, all alarm bells would have to ring. Ladies and gentlemen! Believe me, the private sector, our entrepreneurs have long recognized: I cannot lead a company against the employees, I have to run it with the employees, I need motivated, performance-oriented employees and no bitter, frustrated employees who no longer have confidence in the employer. I therefore believe that very quickly the public sector as an employer requires trust-building measures in the sense of modern personnel management and modern personnel management. I also meant as a representative of the economy, we are prepared by the economy to cooperate here. President Maderthaner was the first who had the idea to ask for performance-oriented officials in the framework of the "Office Manager of the Year" action in front of the curtain and to say that we want to show the public, there are also people in the public sector who act like managers who also try to speed up procedures that do what we promote as "new public management". That means: Away from the sleeve protection mentality, away from the official civility to performance-oriented management methods! I think that's what we have to do, too. Good employees also ask in front of the curtain if they expect it. It costs nothing, ladies and gentlemen, and praise is still a very strong motivating factor, Mrs Schmidt. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: That's the mistake! You're supposed to pay them for good, not just praise!]] Let me also say: The economy is interested in the quality of our administration being in order. I have been active in the area of representation of interests for over 30 years now. I can tell you that years ago, the question of foreign investors who have played with the thought of investing in Austria has often said: How does economic promotion or the tax system look like in Austria? Over the years, the question has changed a lot. In the last one, two years, the question was very often: If I decide to invest in Austria, when can I start? That is, rapid decision-making procedures, rapid approval procedures are required. If we don't have that, we will affect the competitiveness of our economic location internationally. That is to say, we need officials who act as managers for the quality of our business location, who also need to be paid correspondingly, Mrs Schmidt. I hope that's where we have an opinion. [[Abg. Dr Schmidt: You're talking like you're in opposition! That's ridiculous!]] We all know, ladies and gentlemen, how much the quality of the training system determines the quality of the economic location. In the training system, there is a high level of public employment, whether teachers, university teachers or professors. All of this is public service. As a representative of the economy, we want to have motivated, performance-oriented and not frustrated officials in this area, as well as ensuring the quality of our training system. [[Abg. Dr Schmidt: You're talking like you're in opposition!]] That is why my appeal, ladies and gentlemen, is: Let us implement this pension reform, but let us at the same time acknowledge that further reform is necessary, reform steps according to the motto: More performance and less ancienity! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e10184	Mrs Schaffenrath is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e10205	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The really embarrassing actions concerning this so-called pension reform, which actually sheds a very sad light on the state of Austrian parliamentarism, have already been debated on the Rules of Procedure in the context of this debate and also in the debate on the application of the Rules of Procedure, but I also consider the outcome to be embarrassing. I am quite right, Mr President, if he believes that the time spent with officials would be an important step, but in any case this certainly right step will be far too late. It comes in snow, the effects will only become effective at a very, very much later time. I think it is interesting to have the ÖVP distributed in front of Parliament today, which reads as follows: "Children also have rights under the generation contract. – Give the youth a chance!" You cannot promise this generation contract under this pension scheme, and if you do, this promise is not serious, because you will not be able to keep it. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] If you would like to give young people a chance, then you would have had to make more comprehensive adjustments in this pension reform, and you would not have been allowed to waive the acquis communautaire in particular of the Public Service Union, which really wanted to receive its privileges in the area of Pragmatized by all means, up to the blackmail. And if Mr Vice-Chancellor proudly said on television yesterday that he could still sit upright, I really wonder how this is possible after the announcements of Rust. This seems to be a particularly serious case of backbone curvature. Trade union chief Neugebauer has also expressed very clearly: We won. This attitude of the trade union, particularly of course the Public Service Trade Union, has also made it clear what the trade union is about in the last episode. This union has not represented all groups for a long time, and this union should not, in fact, continue to strengthen the concept of "solidarity". She didn't understand that term. Rather, in many, many areas there is more and more de-olidarization between young and old, including within the civil service. Just look at the pay schedule of Pragmatized, that is privileged, and contract staff! Mr Novotny said today – I hope I understood you correctly – that there is a new contract staff law for discussion. Minister of Education Gehrer has also announced this, but for the year 2000, at that time she would like to present it. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Faster!]] I can only refer to her press release. We know from the universities how long negotiations take in this area. I think it is quite courageous for the Minister to announce this, because the year 2000 goes beyond this legislative period, and I also hope in the interest of Austrian parliamentarianism that you will not be able to go over necessary reforms with this two-thirds majority. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] The attitude of the trade union is particularly evident when they now send these letters to the so-called teachers' package. That is to say, the teacher's savings package would be unacceptable. There is talk of a depressing robbery of the Federal Government and a smooth breach of confidence, of a reduction in the quality of education in schools. The quality of training of the Austrian schools has actually been reduced because it has been set up in the context of savings packages 1 and 2, where the privileges of officials have not been affected, because this has led to an increase in the number of school students, because this has led to a reduction in the offer of free goods, in the case of optional items. However, the privileges of the official teachers were not affected, and I also feel that this is a de-olidarization between the institution school and the people employed there and the students who should be at the heart of all considerations. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! There are no approaches to redefining the salary scheme, to installing power incentives. The discussion on biennial jumps is refused. The Minister of Education sees no need for discussion here, and we will therefore again face the same situation in the next budget: disproportionately high staff costs in the field of education, and we have solved nothing in the final consequence. However, there is an unbroken commitment and an unbroken commitment to Pragmatization. Klubobmann Khol wants to defend her with teeth and claws. Minister of Education Gehrer has already said within the budget committee that she will continue to pragmatise as far as teachers go into retirement. And Mrs. Gubitzer of the trade union has meant that Pragmatization would serve the protection of children in the school sector in the context of the television discussion on the matter. – If something is used to protect children in the school sector, it is also possible for teachers who do not do their job properly to be discharged. This is the only way we can achieve an increase in performance in this area. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] We Liberals call for the abolition of Pragmatization, at least in the entire field of education. We also call for a reform of the anti-performance salary scheme, which, as has already been said, will contribute year after year to a strengthening of the budgetary problem. The anthems of praise on this reform are, at least, unwarranted. I ask you: What is the political achievement in which teachers are now not paid all the overtime they have not held? There is this call of the union, there are these letters, which also shed a bad light on the own qualifications of the writing people, because they only show how little they can actually estimate their own working situation. And these examples of shoe vendors who come to pay only that time in which they actually sell, from travel agents who are paid only if they actually sell a trip – I mean, that should not say exactly the trade union representatives of teachers who at 20 hours of teaching – and thus duty of attendance at school – always speak of it every week and around 14 weeks vacations, they would do exactly the same working time as other workers. A reduction of the untenable overtime that has been paid is not, at least, annihilation... [[Abg. Dr. Sonja Moser: That's total nonsense!]] Well, as a Member of Parliament, you'd also like to have had a few overtime hours at Reutte's primary school. I understand. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[New calls from the Abg. Dr. Sonja Moser.]] We know that, Mrs Moser. But not only by the fact that these trade unionists claim that overtime is no longer paid, teachers and teachers would be destroyed. You can read it there, because inside it the teachers' representatives write it. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Read what the Minister says!]] In the last episode, this means only a reduction in overtime, and they are still surprisingly high. The President of the State School Council of Tyrol, Wagner, informed me that the average overtime fee of the pragmatized German teachers in 1995 and 1996 was still 6 400 S per month. I know, of course, that there is a different division between vocational and general education schools, but the teachers' representatives of vocational education schools are the loudest. Still, Mrs. Moser – and you know that as a teacher – there are paid but not kept overtime. I'm just remembering school. I remember the last two or three weeks towards the end of the school year, where, if at all, teaching is held rudimentaryly or in any special form. And, of course, overtime is still paid in the course of the school autonomous days. Mr State Secretary, you know that, of course. And I'm asking you: What is the political performance of this early retirement model for teachers? Even if it would be cost-neutral and even if there might now be some workplace for currently unworkable young teachers: In fact, it remains a privilege limited to a professional group. And exactly this professional group, which has an average retirement rate of 46 000 S per month, can already afford to give up to 20 percent. This would not be possible for other groups of workers. There would no longer be a guarantee of the financial viability of their lives. And then the Minister of Education brings examples in a kind tone and thinks how beautiful it would be if the woman teacher, whose husband, the teacher, is already in retirement, could then give up 20 percent pension, especially since you could afford to live a very pleasant life with both pensions. In any event, such a model of early retirement is only possible in those areas in which this salary scheme leads to the need for income and rest at all at this level. Mr. Khol – he's not here now, unfortunately; sorry, because he's always an interesting discussion partner when it comes to women's issues – said the women's question would be solved because child care times would be increased. – I still have 8 000 s in relation very low. [[Abg. Steibl: First of all, he did not say that, second of all, this is really a positive step!]] I've been listening to him. He said that women's pensions could be increased by 20 percent. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: He called this a step!]] Yes, but if it is the only step, he has not solved the question of women. And, unfortunately, I cannot recognize another step in your template for women. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] The inclusion of women with little employment will not solve the women's problem either, which will have a high labour cost. I assume you do not know the number of women who live in poverty at the age. You can't know them, otherwise you wouldn't think that would solve the women's questions. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] As long as you only link the social security of the woman to her husband or to an employment which, due to the special course of life of women in the sad social reality – because of child care, because of family work – cannot be that of a man, you will not achieve any improvement of the woman either. You should really deal with our basic security model. I hope you have read it, and I hope you have understood it too, because that would really be a huge step towards a right women's policy. It is precisely this that we could secure women socially, regardless of the income of the labour force, regardless of their husband. In any event, appropriate framework conditions, appropriate labour market policies and an extension of childcare facilities are necessary. I see, unfortunately, I have already exceeded my speaking time – as has been the case more often – which is why: Please do not call this budget law significant, do not call it groundbreaking. It is indeed clear that once again it was just a crisis management action.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e10345	Mrs Hagenhofer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e10367	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) There has been an opportunity to attend the budget hearing within the Committee on Budgets and to hear what the experts of each political group have to say about the budget presented. The expert appointed by FPÖ, Professor Genser, has meant – and this must also be noted by FPÖ – that the current budgets, including the pension reform, are remarkable and worthy of recognition. [[Abg. Böhacker: The pension reform was not included!]] None of these two words – remarkable and recognizing – I have heard from you today, and that must also be thought about. [[Abg. Böhacker: Keep on quoting, Mrs Colleague! What did he criticize?]] But he has also said - and this should not be kept silent - that structural budgetary problems are simply staff expenditure and civil servants' pensions - I have written closely, Mr Cot. – which rise practically unbroken, despite stagnation of staff and despite suspension or sisting of salary increases. [[Abg. Böhacker: That the increase in expenditure was not slowed down!]] [[Abg. Böhacker: That's half the truth you say!]] He also said that the effects on the budgets are, so to speak, dampening due to the pension reform. These are facts that you can't deny. [[Abg. Böhacker: Stay with the truth, by the whole truth!]] It is already clear that a reform concept, which will be made for the future, cannot be given a guarantee today that nothing will need to be changed. I don't think there's anywhere. In times like this, in which everything is in the break, it is always necessary to respond to new situations and not just to polemise. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Dr. Niederwieser, then to several representatives of the SPÖ.]] Thank you, colleague. I can very well, as you do, also criticize everything, but only criticism and not a single point of approach on which one could build, which is not a basis for government work. You should also take note of this. It has also meant that this pension reform is a courageous and remarkable step, especially since, in my view, it is precisely this harmonisation of pension systems that is already a milestone in our country's social and pension policies. The pension reform, contrary to your arguments, is an important step towards the financial security of pension provision for young people. It is therefore in the interest of young people, in the interest of the middle age and, of course, in the interest of women, even if it is a very small step, but it must also be recognized. Taking minor service conditions into the social security obligation and creating the option to pay contributions to social security contributions even for non-minor service conditions and thus to be able to take a small step in the direction of independent pension provision, which is also something you must not bagate, but that is also a milestone. Because everything else – but you don't talk about it or you want it that way – is black work. We have to say that quite clearly. So I see a tiny step for women, although we must continue to work hard on this issue. From my point of view and, I believe, from the point of view of all those who stand on the social model of our country, we know, for example, that pension reform in Italy has triggered a government crisis, that in Austria this problem has been solved in a way in which everyone, both the social partners and the government, could introduce their ideas and finally agree on a common denominator. I think that is why we are already envied throughout Europe, and you cannot deny that either. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Don't be so grotesque, Mrs. Colleague!]] I'm not great, I'm just telling you what you should hear and what you should say, because this is exactly what you're hiding! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Mrs Colleague, you do not need to explain it to me! You have to explain it to the voters!]] In this sense, I thank you... [[Abg. Haigermoser: The voters! You don't need to explain it to me! You'll have to explain it to the voters!]] All right, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, Now you don't want to hear it because now you don't have your own union; if you have one, you'll want to hear it too. [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] I would like to thank the government, I thank our social partners and all those who have worked to achieve this result – in the interests of the working people and also in the interests of the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e10520	Next word: Mrs Mag. Stoisits. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e10541	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! I have already had the opportunity to present my basic thoughts on your pension reform package to the Committee's colleagues, but I would also like to use the opportunity to say something about it today. ==References== I do not want to comment as much as most previous speakers did on the overall considerations, but I would like to deal specifically with the officials. One thing is certain – and I am sure that all those who have dealt with it will be right – that the reform of the rest of the public service, as we have laid before us today, is pretty much the most massive intervention in existing social law in recent years, if not decades. This intervention – and I am now referring mainly to the calculation period with the officials – I am able – and now I am speaking not only as a Member but also as an official. In my opinion, this intervention has deserved a calm, objective discussion, because it simply meets many Austrians, as the proportion of public servants in that country is not insignificant. It is not only here, but also, above all, in the international comparison, not irrelevant. That's why this pressure is in time... [[Abg. Controversy: Although not all officials are!]] Although not all officials are. I'm talking about the public servants as a whole. [[Abg. There are also ASVGlers!]] Of course, ASVGlers are also involved, but I am now concerned about the public service and the image that is being transmitted, especially since not all are affected to the same extent. But in my opinion this time pressure also entails certain opportunities – I always have to speak in the past – to provide reasonable, long-term solutions that are actually accepted, namely solutions that are accepted by as many people as possible. In this process, however, there has not really been this opportunity. There is consensus here that pension reform is necessary because the current regulations and existing legal provisions are simple and simply unfair. This is, for me, the core of this problem. Not because it would not be eligible for funding – this is an aspect which is not insignificant – but rather the injustice contained in the current different pension systems, it is what makes a reform necessary. This is the view that those affected also expect from those who are politically responsible. But what is the image that has been mediated? – The image that the public has had is that of an official in Austria – I am now deliberately saying civil service and not public service – who has tried to resist, and again has been entitled to resist, because the civil service and civil service are those groups in Austria – not the only and only ones – that were really fully affected by the savings packages in recent years, and the group that had to face the most hits in the media as a whole. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Headmaster.]] The discussions and the image that politicians and politicians as well as the media often convey to the public are incredible. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Unfortunately!]] It is read that the Austrian officials eat breakfast until noon and then lunch until evening and work nothing. The classical whites of civil servants, which exist, have been partly communicated in this debate on pension reform as realities outside. This is something that creates a ground where serious conflicts are no longer possible. I say the following to you: If the insecure civil service resists, which politicians sometimes seem to have overlaid us, then you must not be surprised. If for two years there have been no increases in salary for officials and officials – Mr State Secretary, I say that this is also a part of today's package; I do not know if someone mentioned it, I have not heard all the speakers in the last detail, but you have certainly mentioned it, because that is not essential in this budget accompanying law – then it is also appropriate to speak of what it really is all about. [[Secretary of State Dr. Ruttenstorfer: Already before!]] Unequalities and injustices that exist in the active working life of officials have become and are still in retirement and are often reinforced. Ladies and gentlemen! It simply is not possible for all officials to be scrambled over a comb, so to speak. Officials are not the same as officials. The figures that are colported over and over again, for example, how high the average pensions at the federal government and in the countries are, these average values sometimes say relatively little to nothing, because – now we have to talk specifically about what it is all about – let's just look at the city of Vienna, for example. In Vienna, where public servants are employed in craftsmanship, there is gross earnings of between 16 000 and 18 000 S after 40 years or even longer, which are also used as a pension basis. It is certainly not appropriate and legitimate for these to ask the question that I was particularly interested in hearing the experts, which I also consider to be a key question: What is an official, worth the Pragmatization of an official? Someone who is in a certain service class, about VII, VIII or IX, may well be worth it. But if it concerns thousands and tens of thousands of public servants who have small pensions, then I must say that this is about every schilling, around 10 s and only about hundreds of schilling. In this case, it is simply not legitimate to put this question this way. Now I come to the point where my personal understanding is suspended. This is precisely the key question of Pragmatization, in which the Public Trade Union is involved. Service simply points to the point of view and says: Pragmatization is not a matter of negotiation for us. Ladies and gentlemen! Just as you represent the interests of the trade union public service, it will not go. The Pragmatization – and I agree entirely with the Secretary of State – and the fact that Pragmatization in the form it exists with us is really in all its facets in modern terms must be discussed. I hope that this discussion will be possible on all the negative points and disadvantages that pension reform entails for officials from some point of view. To that end, I say to you, Mr State Secretary: The fact that there are now periods of calculation is, of course, positive. This is the step in which one speaks of what life's worth is and how one can compare the same thing with the same, but never the same. [[Abg. Verbatim: Equal to the same!]] Equivalent! Yes. This is a point where, in spite of all the negative views and dissatisfaction with the result that we will have a better basis for future negotiations than we have before. Now I must say to those, the Federal Ministers, the Secretary of State and all those who have done so so so so far, because the situation has now come to pass for the public service, that the argument that this is about ensuring pensions – at least at the moment, for I do not share your optimistic forecasts on periods of time. When, if not now, is it as emotion-free as possible to hold a leading discussion? I'm asking you to finally lead her. At the end of my speech, I come to an amendment which I mentioned earlier in the debate on the motion for a resolution. Its budgetary implications are to be settled in amounts that are really a small thing in view of the huge sum of money, but where simply the spirit of this whole pension reform, the spirit which is evident between those who want it and decide it, and those who are concerned with it. This is the point of so-called political privileges. We have decided, with the consent of the Greens and the Liberals, a package following long and intensive discussions – and also in most of the points, as you know, with the consent of the Greens and the Liberals – which entails very substantial innovations. There will be no more political board in the future. It has always been said that the issue of retirement provisions for politicians and politicians is not a question of references to the contract-limitation law, but it will be discussed later on when it comes to the retiring of officials and officials. It is now about the non-essential group here in the House who are officials. These are the most powerful groups of colleagues. However, these are not mentioned in the Government's proposal or amendment, let alone in an initiative of the Committee's colleagues. It is – I do not want to exaggerate and overdramatize here – not to observe what will fall on our minds, because the public does not understand that we are putting on ourselves a different scale from those we demand. So far, I have not heard any plausible reason why I am a civil servant – I am also a civil servant – have pension provisions in the future – the law prescribes them to me – which I consider important, necessary and prudent, but which does not exist for me as a politician. For me personally, there will not be the situation because I am one of those who will never receive a political pension. Please, explain to an official and an official why they should be subject to retirement rules, but not to a politician who is an official! – That is not to be explained. This is an injustice that will not be eliminated. The word "injustice" is still a harmless word in relation to what it really is, a political privilege that is not justified by anything, which remains here in the law. This is a point of the content of the amendment which the Greens have already brought into committee, to which no one has lost a word at all, namely no one from the coalition groups and not from the Freedom Party. You also did not agree to our request in committee, although this has been a central point in your party's remarks today. A second point, which is also the content of the amendment, is the one that concerns political officials – of course everything from the year 2000 – and also other privileges of politicians who do not have other, namely officials. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I don't understand that. That is why I would like to point out this very specific point again, especially in view of the fact that I have given my approval to the terms of reference law, because I thought it was an essential and correct step at the time. Now I would like to read the amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! If you are concerned that such a thing as this morning – that a political group is accusing something that is in the heart of the matter, but is correct in detail – does not happen anymore in the future, then you decide to include these - I say it harmlessly - small inconsistency and non-compliance in this budget accompanying law simply and simply. I can tell you that I am tired of having to put up for those beatings wherever I am going as a politician. I am also of the opinion that President Vergestnich should not want to be beaten for something he is either not a beneficial person or has no interest in. When, if not at this moment, should this be regulated? If the Secretary of State has not come to the idea of doing so, I also understand it, because you, Mr State Secretary, are one who can never become a benefit of this privilege because you are too short in the government. But here are so many who could benefit from this privilege. That is why you are asked to remove this privilege, ladies and gentlemen. If you do not do so, then above all that right side of the House will find again and again of new occasion to condemn it, and all of us will have no solid argument to answer. Take advantage of this last chance!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e10682	The amendment that has just been read has been properly submitted and is supported accordingly, and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Dr Höchtl has been mentioned on the floor. I would like to point out that a short debate is to be held at 3 p.m. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e10707	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If we are today under the title 1. I would like to make a few comments on the subject of pension reform, which I am simply concerned about, since I have been following the debate very intensively over the last few months. First of all, I would like to say the following: During these last weeks and months, there have been some statements that have affected me, of which I believe that all those who have spoken here must say only one thing: Words can also hurt! In the political debate, we should try to use a language with which we can continue to work with the others in a very orderly, above all "unscathed" atmosphere. I mean, that's something we should consider. This is an important element of political culture. Words can hurt. Therefore, let us consider in advance what words we use in the arguments! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Second comment: I have had the feeling in some discussions that the understanding of a social group for another social group in our society has become less important. I have the need to say today: It will be up to all the representatives of the various social groups to get back to each other, because a pluralist society we are, of course, and we want to be, has more stability, the more we take into account the problems, the difficulties, the fears, the challenges of the other. I believe that all of us who feel that policy is responsible should make our contribution to restoring this high degree of stability, this high level of mutual respect and understanding of the situation of the other. This is also an insight into the discussions of the last weeks and months. Thirdly, It has sometimes been criticized by so many that we have repeatedly taken new steps by the government parties to discuss and negotiate. Sometimes it was asked: Why don't you just do that and put a closing point? Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I believe that the value of understanding on the part of those concerned and the value of an agreement between the partners must be enormously high. I think it was worth taking as many efforts and steps as possible so that today we can actually hold this debate in peace and not in a situation of extreme protests as it is in other countries. I think that this is a positive thing, and it proves to be the right way in which we have taken it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I really needed to make these three comments in the debate. Wherever you go, discussions often ask you for the real reasons for the relatively profound reforms that are being decided today and on Friday. I would like to return to the remarks made by my colleague, who has already tried to show the deeper causes very plastically, but also to look at a longer period of time. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! In this century there was God thanks to dramatic changes in life expectancy. The data from around the turn of the century show an average life expectancy of 45 years; only since 1945 have we lived on average for 11 years longer, meaning that life expectancy is today at 74 years for men and 81 years for women. As has always been pointed out, over the last 30 years the average training period has been extended by about three years. The reduction in the total working life was therefore due to the inclusion of these three years of training and the four years of early retirement. The fact that we have to register over the last 30 years has been raised: It has reversed the ratio between the time of the contribution payment and that of the non-contributory. During the end of the 1960s contributions were paid on average for 43 years and only 33 years, consisting of training time and pension, are now only 36 years in which contributions are paid, so seven years less, but already 45 years in which no pension or training is paid. In view of these figures, it is obvious that there are consequences for them. If we in Austria – most politically responsible – want to maintain the high level of pensions – many even call it the best pension system that exists in countries of the world – we must suffer consequences and not simply let the consequences of the automatic change in this structure be borne by the disciples. For example, if the contribution payments were to remain the same by 2030, the average pension would have to be reduced to 8,000 s. The pension contribution should rise by at least half if pension levels remain stable. However, if the pension was to be left the same, all of them would have to retire later, namely women with 71 and men of 76 years of age. All these are, I believe, not exactly those visions we are striving for. We must therefore address this challenge with solutions – that is why today and the decision-making on Friday. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The most important thing in this innovation of the public service pension system is, I believe, to see how much the officials are affected. This is an enormous amount of money, since there has been no calculation period for them so far. We must understand that there was an enormous need for discussion. Sometimes created by some expression there or there not very pleasant situations, but at the end of the day we need to see the result. We have also been aware of the implementation of various amendments that representatives of the public service wanted. These amendments are in line with the principles expressed by us, namely to achieve the highest possible level of trust protection, to implement toughness equalisation measures wherever we can, and to establish a better assessment of child rearing times. All of these are things that, as I believe, we must do together, first of all listen to the arguments of those concerned, which we must then implement in parliamentarians. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] I am glad that we were able to negotiate yesterday until the last moment, and that this social partnership procedure is something that envys us from many other societies in other countries, both in the public service trade union and in the whole trade union association. We must fight to maintain this, and we must make our contribution to ensuring this stability. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! However, we must also pay attention to the younger people who, if they now make their contributions, also want to have a chance to have a corresponding pension. Therefore, in the form of an amendment, I would like to make certain reliefs in this regard, because I believe that it is necessary, in the sense of younger officials, to integrate the reduction in the pension contribution from 11.75 to 10.25 percent in this decision-making. I would therefore like to briefly read the amendment in the one minute remaining to me.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e10813	Deputies! I ask for understanding, but reading this application certainly takes more than a minute – and it is now exactly 15 o'clock. I would therefore suggest that I give you the floor again after the short debate. That is why this debate is interrupted. Mr President, Mr Höchtl, I would like to speak on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl leaves the speaker's desk.]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[15:00]] Short debate on a deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e10855	A debate was requested in connection with the request made by Mrs Petrovic, the Scientific Committee for Reporting on a Federal Law amending the University Study Law, a period of time until 9. In December 1997, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and After this debate, the vote on this motion for a deadline will take place immediately after this debate and not only at the end of the agenda. We are going into the debate. The first speaker has a speaking time of 10 minutes, all the other 5 minutes. Mrs Petrovic is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e10886	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Greens, with this proposal for a deadline, shall advise the Committee as quickly as possible on the situation of ethnically discriminated groups with regard to university studies. The reason for this is the situation of Kosovo Albanians in Austria, whose admission to Austrian universities, as it has shown, in the past, was not actually in line with the law. In Austria, according to the UniStG, the provision in itself that there is a right to study in the country of origin applies, i.e. only those persons who are or would be in their country of origin are entitled to study. In addition, recognised refugees are also entitled to study. Now, however, we all know that, especially through the intensification and the changed practice of asylum law, there are increasingly less and less recognised refugees and that especially among people from former Yugoslavia of refugee status has been recognised almost never before. Nevertheless, I believe that, and no one here in the House is doubting this, there are still massive ethnic discriminations in ex-Yugoslavia despite a major ceasefire, especially in the rest of Yugoslavia, with Kosovo Albanians and Kosovo Albanians. However, the request we have formulated does not refer only to students from Kosovo, but it is intended to allow the Minister of Science to allow persons who meet the requirements for university maturity in general, but who are excluded from their studies as a result of ethnic or racial discrimination in their home country. This concerns, as has been said, students from Kosovo who have not been allowed to study, since the winter semester of 91/92, ex definitions in the rest of Yugoslavia and Kosova, but also Kurds from Turkey. I am convinced that these discriminations also apply to other, probably small groups, among which in turn few people are even interested in studying abroad. It is therefore not a matter of quantitative weight which would endanger or call into question the operation at universities. In my opinion, however, this would be a very important contribution to democratisation in those countries where there is such massive ethnic discrimination. Those who, with the help of all the successor states of the former Yugoslavia, are also interested in the possibility of young people from these countries to study higher education, because academically educated young people can be an important contribution to supporting a democratization process. However, it must not happen that ethnic discrimination in the countries of origin is being rewritten by our legal situation, i.e. that ethnic discrimination, as it exists in Kosova, will continue in Austria. Federal Minister! In higher education magazines, it is said that the situation has been corrected, and in the ÖH magazine, reference is made to a valid agreement between the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and Kosovo. – I am not aware of any such agreement, and I think anyone who pursues the current policy in Belgrade is in doubt about the existence of such a convention. In my knowledge, the exclusion of Albanians from study remains unchanged; there has been no relaxation or improvement for students from Kosovo. Such an agreement has not been transmitted to this House either. I very much welcome it if one offers de facto – I would say, in fact, next to or probably even against the law – an aid service for Kosovo Albanians. But this can only be a wink interim solution. We need, as has been said, a new legal regime based on Kosova, but also on other cases of ethnic discrimination. Federal Minister! I would therefore ask you, in particular, colleagues from the Scientific Committee, to support this desire for a rapid debate on matter in the Scientific Committee. It is not a question of allowing, in individual cases, only those persons who fulfil the conditions in their country of origin or who have been recognized as refugees to study in Austria, as I do not know, to remedy the situation of the law. In my opinion, the cases of massive ethnic discrimination are so obvious that we should decide quickly to amend § 36 of the UniStG – and thus legal certainty as well. I therefore invite you to accept this request for a deadline from the Greens and also the request made by the Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e10955	For further debates, speaking times are limited to 5 minutes. Mr Dr Niederweiser came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e10979	Mr President. Federal Minister! I think we need to divide this issue into two parts to understand it and to take the right measures in this situation. On the one hand, there is the situation clearly described by Mr Petrovic in the rest of Yugoslavia, especially in Kosovo, where undisputed reports indicate that the University of Priština was closed for Albanian de facto in 1991. Since then, 90 percent of the population, the Albanians, are de facto no longer admitted to study at this university. In the period until September 1992, even 900 Albanian professors and members of the teaching body of this university were released. This is a procedure that cannot be sharply criticized enough. It is undoubtedly a violation of human rights and is also an act of this Parliament. We can't watch this, but we have to put a very clear finger on this human rights abuse. - That's the one point. The second point: We discussed this morning at the entry into the agenda of how we deal with each other. It was criticized how the government parties dealt with the opposition. I think that's probably the same thing as vice versa. Last night, Mr Petrovic and I spoke on this subject. They have offered that we should advise the subject in peace and seek ways of a common solution. I have pointed out that it is in our interest not to have any differences in content. However, if, in response to this offer, we receive a request for a deadline next day, then this, ladies and gentlemen, perhaps not the right way to respond to such cooperation offers. But strike below it – it is about the problem to be solved, and behind it such discussions should be held between the political groups. It's about the people concerned, and they should be able to study with us. It is not only § 36 UniStG that needs to be considered, but we have thought about these things very well in the course of the adoption of the UniStG and have addressed the problem in several rounds of negotiations: What about those students who come from a state in which they represent a persecuted minority? – For this reason, they will never receive the confirmation that they could study there, and they will therefore not be able to provide this particular certificate of study in order to be admitted to study with us. This issue was not unknown to us in itself, but we discussed it in the negotiations on the UniStG and referred to it in the explanatory notes. Therefore, § 30 para. 3, that the rector – the rector is the highest authority of every university for the admission procedure – can very well not be denied this proof outside of the law and also not counter-legem, colleague Petrovic, but precisely within the meaning of the legislator and within the meaning of the law. It could now be said that the rectors do not act accordingly, so that the ministers must do so. However, it is contrary that we have actually decided that university autonomy should be the focus of our university policy and that the direction should be indicated. What will be done – the Federal Minister for Science and Transport has already announced this – is that the rectors are explicitly pointing out the possibility that they will be able to make general use of this special proof of study not only in relation to this group but in such situations. The law therefore provides for appropriate possibilities for itself. If we want to strengthen this component in the law, I believe that this would not be carried in the area of § 36, but rather in the place where we grant the rectors the corresponding competence. The problem can therefore be solved by the rectors with some good will and respect for the legislator. We therefore ask for understanding that we do not see any need for a deadline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e11031	Next, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Brinek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e11052	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I can refer more or less seamlessly to the statements of my predecessor and refer to the important regulation of § 30 UniStG, admission to study. I would like to inform you of the explanations in which the rector's handling is carried out. I quote: ==References====External links== 3 is taken from the law in force and should, in the main, help to take into account so-called political circumstances. This ranges from a temporary closure of a university or university of countries in crisis areas to difficulties arising in connection with countries where there are lower democratic, rule of law standards. In particular, the problems of political refugees will have to be taken into account in the broadest sense. - Quote. Dear Dr. Petrovic! In my opinion, this explanation is sufficient in terms of expression and precision. Perhaps you did not know or know about these provisions in detail and have therefore, in your contribution to the debate, decided on agreements between Serbia and Kosovo, which are not the basis for § 30 para. 3 are. Please note that this is a different category and discourse. In the present case, § 30 para. 3 UniStG very precisely what it's all about. I think you should also remember that the recognised refugees within the meaning of the Convention are included in the People's Group Regulation and therefore there is clarity. A further note: If I read your request carefully, I notice a problem in the legal system. I think it is wrong to turn the Minister of Science into a judge on the state in which it is civilized and in which it is politically operated, and to empower the Minister to make political judgments, or to make it self-evident. In my knowledge, the levels of decision-making in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are responsible for this type of judgment, on the basis of which agreements are concluded. Let me now turn to the point. The ÖVP, and certainly many other Members here, whether individually or collectively, have great interest in meeting groups which are particularly disadvantaged by ethnic provisions and students in their offices to study in Austria. This is particularly true of Kosovo Albanians if they are not granted and not allowed to study in their home country. However, we do not rely on the competence and on the – I say quite personally valued – overload of the ministry, and we do not put on a change of course from autonomy to the authority of the ministry. Instead, we follow the philosophy of the University of StG very closely and place great hopes and expectations in the competence and autonomous decision-making capacity of the rectors. These are the top university authorities. There is no reason to distrust the rectors, but there is rather reason to give them great confidence, with the addition of very careful monitoring of these decisions from the parliamentary side. It is only a few minutes ago that I received a confirmatory call from the President-in-Office of the Rector's Conference, in which he stated that he felt confirmed by the information that the Ministry has already done, and by the communication that will be further expanded, that he felt sufficiently secure by law to decide in the cases cited. We recognize that the legal possibility that exists now is sufficient, so that there is no reason for a deadline or – at present – a change to the university study law. That is why we can waive approval. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e11103	The next speaker was Mr Krüger. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e11125	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! In this debate, I think it is of particular interest that the socialist side and the side of the ÖVP obviously have a clear opinion on this motion for a law tabled by Mr Petrovic and others, but do not give an understanding of this request for rapid implementation. It seems to me that there is a confusion at all. It is not a matter of voting in terms of whether you are in favour of it or not, but of whether the matter is assigned to the Committee and can then come back to the plenary session, which is either accepted or rejected by the legislative proposal. Mrs Brinek has not made any statement on why she is not in favour of immediate consideration of the matter in committee. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Oh, yes!]] In fact, Mrs Brinek, you have made a statement on the matter, which should actually be reserved for committee work. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mrs. Brinek! You have explained in detail the content for which you are opposed. But if the opinion of the Austrian People's Party and SPÖ is already so advanced that decisions can already be made in this matter, I wonder why this matter should be pushed to the long bank. Mrs. Brinek! You have here expressed the opinion that according to § 30 para. 3 university law of study of the rector has sufficient opportunity to decide whether or not members of this ethnic minority are admitted to the universities in Austria. They have expressed their views on the matter and have taken a clear stand. I do not understand, therefore, that you want to push the matter to the long bank. What's the point? – You have an opinion that this can and should be represented. I do not see any logical reason to wait for the committee responsible to reach a decision. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: There's no need for action!]] There's no need for action? – Dear Mrs Colleague! [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: There is no acute need for action!]] If there is no need for action, does this mean simply leaving a legislative proposal in the eyes of the Austrian People's Party? – That is obviously your opinion. But that's not how you can do it: Only because it is said that there is no need for action does a bill remain. They have an accentuated opinion that the opinion-forming process has been concluded, and there is no reason to delay or not to deal with the application for a law. It is obvious that a very rapid debate could be held in the Committee. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: There is no acute need for action!]] The applicant side is for this, the Liberals will also be for it; ÖVP and SPÖ are against this because they say that the autonomy of universities should regulate this. I agree with you that there is a lot to talk about leaving it in this autonomous system. For it is certainly not logical on the part of the Greens to stand on one side for more autonomy at the universities and to call on the other side after the legislator. It is clear, however, that the matter may be ready in committee deliberations within the framework of the shortest discussion and therefore there is no reason not to put an end to this motion for a law. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Nothing is against this!]] That is why we shall vote in favour of this deadline.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e11221	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Gredler. She's got the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e11243	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, the occasion is tragic: Ethnic discrimination, so to speak, must be justified in order to amend a law, which is really tragic. It is tragic that people cannot continue their studies at the moment, although they want to, because the rectors are obviously not informed. Federal Minister! I ask you to inform the relevant university professors immediately about these ethnic minorities and their situation and the resulting inability to provide the appropriate evidence. I would also call for a rapid removal in the event of rejection, so that these people can be integrated into a study as quickly as possible. But my fundamental problem is that, as it were, a law has to be changed in time for a situation which may be very limited in time. That's what I'm having my trouble with. I would rather argue that one should monitor which grounds of rejection are in conformity with § 30 para. 3 UniStG, according to which the rectors may take a negative attitude towards those people who are persecuted in their States because of their ethnicity or because of other points of discrimination we know. Mrs Petrovic! The text you propose is also a little problematic for us for the following reason: Can you define what "civilized states" are? – I consider the term "civilised states" to be stretchable like a chewing gum. I don't know if our state is a civilized state. The impression I sometimes have from this Parliament does not seem to me to be that we really are in a civilized society. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Even though Mr Gusenbauer doesn't believe me now: You also shake your head sometimes, and I watch you often. I would just like to say to Mr Krüger: They shall be the committee chairman responsible. Why Call You're not just a committee? – This would also be a way of moving this time forward. I would very much like us to meet with the Minister of Science more often. I have suffered a great deal from the fact that we have to discuss a budget for science and research within one and a half hours in a round – actually a cutback for everyone who is interested in matter. I believe that we should take discussions really seriously and not just have a short meeting with the relevant Minister of State twice a year. Federal Minister! I'm sure you'd spend the time discussing it in principle. Once I was a similar person. I also have a foreign matura. My mother had to go to another capital three times to negotiate with the Ministry and get the necessary documents so that the officials in Austria could recognize the Matura. I know how hard it was to get all the papers. In principle, it is necessary to change much more than what you are planning, Mrs Petrovic. Although this is justified in the case at hand, I would ask that we then hold a wide-ranging discussion in the Committee, not only about ethnic minorities, but also about all those who are affected and who have to produce papers in this way, about those who have to take up the costs in order to obtain translations, necessary legitimizations and so on. This was very difficult at the time when I was affected, but in this respect not much has changed when it comes to countries outside the EU. We will support this request because we always support requests for deadlines, although I believe that we also have the opportunity to achieve the same – and far more than that – in the normal procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e11303	The last speaker on this item is Mrs Stoisits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e11324	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! To answer Mrs Gredler's question: What civilized states are, they don't define the greens. The term "civilised states" is a general term of law, as it is mainly contained in international documents, but also in the Austrian StGB. What this means politically, practically or in the real situation, I think you will be right in saying that something like a so-called ethnic cleansing does not correspond to the legal principles of a civilized state. This is a statement for you if you have such a problem with Mrs Petrovic's request. I give Mr Niederweiser the right to say that he understands this concern. There are discussions and the understanding of the need for regulation, as I would like to call it now. You want to change the situation. From our point of view, I am grateful for this insight. Mrs Petrovic has put forward this deadline proposal today in order to clearly underline the need for the amendment. The deadline does not take place from today to the day after tomorrow, but refers to the period up to the 9th. ==References== In the meantime, then, is a month in which we can discuss this in detail and then find a solution in the Committee's deliberations. Why this general solution – as I am in contradiction with Mrs. Dr. Brinek – is necessary, is not a fundamental distrust of the rectors of the individual universities, that these are basically not weighted towards this, but that is a knowledge of the practical experience, Dr. Brinek. I do not want it to be so in the future that a number of people do so until it has spoken about the fact that the rectors do not have the necessary understanding of it, but I would like here a clear, clear and ambiguous word by the Minister or the Minister, the respective Head of State. Knowing that there are these inconsistencies with regard to Kosovo between Mr Dr. One and Mr. Foreign Minister Vice-President Dr. Schüssel, I would like to continue to bring this together, because Dr. Schüssel is the one who is not quite on this line as far as Kosovo is concerned. But it is not only Kosovo, it is also about other ethnic groups, about other peoples, about other oppressed nations, peoples or small groups. This case can also occur very quickly when it comes to shooting when it comes to Kurds. And we need a clear approach for the rectors too, a clear legal basis. That's the goal. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I do not distrust the rectors, but I can show you the cases in which the rectors have not decided in your and in my sense – and this to the detriment of students or potential students in Austria, who have simply taken these possibilities completely in their home country. That is what we want, and that is why we ask you to agree. Not for us, but for the oppressed from Kurdistan, Kosovo, Iran and Iraq.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e11376	In the word, no one has been reported for this. We shall therefore proceed to the vote, and we shall vote on the request to report to the Scientific Committee on the 606/A request from Mr Petrovic to the 9th. In December 1997, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to turnover taxes. I should like to ask that those ladies and gentlemen of the House who vote in favour of this proposal for a deadline show this by a sign. – I notice: The application did not receive a majority and is therefore rejected. The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e11412	I take the deliberations on the 2nd. Agenda item again. I call Mr Höchtl on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). This is the first word message. The remaining speaking time is 7 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e11436	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! As just before 3 p.m., I would like to make an amendment and bring it to the reading, which in particular represents an improvement for young officials, namely the reduction of the pension contribution from 11.75 to 10.25 per cent. [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This amendment is therefore tabled and I ask that it be used as a basis in the further negotiations.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e11538	Thank you. – Mr Novotny's request, Mr President, Mr Gusenbauer, Mr Höchtl is duly filed and is therefore under negotiation. Mr. Leikam, was that a word? [[Abg. Leikam: No, no!]] Good. Then the next speaker is Mr Deputies' Head. Voluntary speaking time limit: 9 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e11567	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Today's first round on the budget accompanying laws and on pension reform is already four hours old, and as announced by Federal Partyobmann Dr. Haider in his first speech, we have just heard Mr Höchtl, Mr Gusenbauer's first amendment. I would like to say a few words to you for my group: We will, of course, support this amendment because it contains precisely those intentions and takes into account precisely those fears which we have already expressed in today's debate. There is no doubt that this pension package of officials does not represent one thing: a solidarity pact between the old and the young, but it leaves exactly that which in 2019 it 60. That is, those who are younger than 40 years old will be in the rain. This will then provide them with what is currently being suspended, namely the full hardness of the calculation periods. I therefore believe that it is only justified that this group should at least be given the opportunity, by means of reduced contribution payments at this time, to add to what they can expect as pensions, not more than 80 percent of their maximum remuneration as a pension, but on average about 60 percent of their income pyramids that they have ever achieved, which means that they will have a reduction of up to 40 percent of their living standards, to carry out a certain provision in the private sector, although not annoying, but at least with 1.5 percentage points in contribution payments. This will also ensure that things are achieved very slowly, which we have always called for and called for in the clear sense, namely the introduction of the three-column model with state solidarity in the first pillar, with the operational provision in the second pillar and with the private provision in the third pillar. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is simply and simply untrue if, 24 hours ago, the Federal Chancellor and the Vice-Chancellor claimed to have fulfilled the rusty declaration with the present Civil Service and ASVG package for pension reform and to have created a solidarity pact on generations, because it is precisely the boys, those men who are under 40 today, or those women under 45 who are hit hard by this pension package. They are the ones who will have to pay the bill, and they will also be the ones who will experience the next and the closest pension debates. Professor Marin went two days ago to predict the next pension debate for 1999, and the government expert, Professor Rürup, has also failed to miss out on any clarity in today's or yesterday's statement. He believes that the next pension debate will be to be held no later than 2005 and 2010. For the younger generation, the project that the Federal Government has set itself for the reform of pensions is simply and simply a failure to consider the generation agreement for all generations to be solid. It is also to be seen as a failure for the group of caregivers who suffer from birth or accidents of disability. We know that, on the one hand, the contribution payments from the corresponding social wells will remain frozen for two years and on the other hand, the now inclusion of the minor employees in social security will add to the cost of using assistance in the event of disability. It should also be borne in mind that this group has already been exposed to a real price driver for the countries and the municipalities over the last two years, since after the introduction of the care allowance in 1993, they have greatly increased their prices and payment obligations for the homes and the stationary facilities. The fact that this group continues to be allowed to remain in the same rate of contribution of the care allowance is simple and simply unsocial. I also believe that the measure which will then be decided in the ASVG is hard-hearted only from the point of view of care level 5 to grant the care family a corresponding insurance. The care level 4 already means that 180 care hours a month are to be performed. This is more than a full-time job, but only from the point of view of the care level 5 can you afford this possibility of self-insurance. I therefore believe that there is no social balance here either. On the other hand, it can be seen that what can be seen in the official package today is certainly better achieved in relation to all other measures in the ASVG area in relation to the suspension. The ASVGlers will therefore pay the token for what will be decided today on civil service law. Another aspect of the statistics that have so often been tried by the EIA, but which you too, Mr State Secretary, have rightly discussed here in connection with the expenditure on civil servants' pensions in relation to gross domestic product. I can put something else into the discussion: the coverage rate of the total expenses of pension insurance by means of the federal government. Originally, Mr Feurstein, you know that I am right, a third-party scheme was agreed: a third federal government, a third contribution from insured persons, a third contribution from the economy. From this system of 1970, 1974, 1975, a slide to 29.3 to 30.2 percent was carried out from 1983 to 1986. From 1989 to today, there was a constant ups and downs, but every two years it certainly went down. 30.2% 1987 after the end of the small coalition, 1989 28.9%, 25.9%, a short recovery in 1991 to 26.4%, 25.0%, 24.7%, 23.9%, 25.1% – see! – in 1994; then 24.4 percent, 25.0 percent; 23.5 percent as forecast for 1998. These are all the official figures of the federal government. Not one comes from our pen, but all from the government. Mr Feurstein, you will not be able to dispute – Mr President Sallmutter is of the same opinion: If the League had complied with its promises, much should not have been done in this year. That is why I repeat what Dr. Haider said: Of course, this was a short-term fiscal consolidation measure – and not a long-term pension reform measure, no measure at all to establish a solidarity between young and old! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Because even your own experts Rürup and Marin tell you clearly and clearly: The solidarity between young and old is a mistake. The over 50 years of age have addressed it, the under 50 years of age will pay the tokens with delays. I guarantee you one, Mr Feurstein, and all the others who believe that they have found the stone of the sages by giving their full support to this act today: They will surely find in the Austrian population that people can read what is being decided today and that they will also realize what is happening to them. It is not the liberal BARC insurance, but yours, which offers additional benefits for the currently young generation, because pensions are not safe, it is not our post savings bank that offers the same, it is not our Vienna city insurance, but exactly the insurances from the black and red sector that offer it. I therefore believe that the criticism of our liberals is that we are insecure the youth and that we are providing service to the insurance companies. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You, Mr Feurstein, and your colleagues, whose names appear on these amendments, are those who give young people this additional opportunity, yes they force it to do so, while at the same time claiming that the three-pillar model of the liberals is a non-social one. And something else, Mr. Feurstein: You know very well that more than 70 percent of the ASVG-pensionists would be happy – if I count on those who are below 11 000 S today, it is even 82 percent – if they were given the 11 000 S as a basic pension according to the three-pillar model. Under the new regulations in civil service law, the D and E officials would also be pleased if they were the basic guarantee of the three-column free movement model. This is not a model of poverty pension! [[Abg. Koppler: People's pension!]] What you decide and prolongate today is indeed a social model in the lower income groups, which would actually be to be adapted upwards for a social state – at least if you really think it is socially serious – and not from the income of 10 000 s and more by one percentage point down. The grinding arrangements could provide for 1 per cent to 7 per cent from 10 000 S and then more in the same form. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: This is not true for the ASVG!]] Mr Feurstein! You know what we're talking about. If you look at this in the ASVG: there from 8 000 p.m. Mr. Feurstein! This is neither socially balanced nor a century work! You have locked a door to the billing period with the officials, but you and the Federal Government have not succeeded in closing a solidarity pact between young and old and between the needy and the needy. They have clearly failed the objectives of the pension reform in the most important parameters.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e11647	The next speaker is Mr Gusenbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e11668	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Haupt has said here that this pension reform is not the stone of the sages. . I think it is a completely false access to the question of pension reform from the knowledgeable theoretic approach, and I think it would be to find some stone of the wise. That's a completely outrageous issue! A pension reform has to be geared towards what objectives can be pursued and how these objectives can be achieved with the consent of those involved in a country. This is not a process of knowledge, it is a political process and a negotiation process. And the result of this process is on the table today. The honourable Member's objection, therefore, that this would not be the stone of the wise, is not in fact a more solid one. All that the experts say, there are also very different viewpoints and criticisms. For example, in today's issue of the "standard" you can read what individual experts mean. It is noted, for example, that the reform, if the ASVG is to be used in less than 10 000 S, so to speak, affects two thirds of those who have an ASVG-pension. But what does that mean when you look at it the other way around? – This would mean that, in the view of the ASVG-pensionists under 10 000 S, these experts would in fact have to be much more incarcerated. But there is a question of social policy for us, whether it may be desirable to cut down on pensions of this low level, or whether there is a legitimate need for protection for these groups in society. That means: What the experts put on the table purely mathematically, purely mathematically, from the point of view of budget finance has nothing to do with how later the individual is affected individually. That is why the politicians elected by the people are also making politics and not the experts. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: Who did this now? Who made this policy?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Who has chosen the social partners? The social partners are not the elected representatives! Watch what you're saying!]] Mrs Schmidt! Faith Do you really think that in this case the experts have made the policy? - No! If you are already addressing the role of Parliament, we are talking quite openly about it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] One by one. Now the colleague Schmidt comes along and I am dealing with her calls, Mr President. It was not, as it were, the highest parliamentary aesthetic after which this has been done in the committees in the last few days. I think we agree on that. But I would really have liked to see what would have happened if the government's proposal had been discussed in the same way as it was introduced if it had been put into plenary without any changes. Everyone would have said immediately that Parliament is not aware of its task of dealing creatively with this text. [[Abg. Dr Schmidt: The Committee could have improved it! That's why the committees are here.]] I say quite frankly to you, Mrs Schmidt: I have been present at all the meetings of the Financial Committee, but, apart from the government groups, there have been no amendments there, but even yesterday there was a widespread refusal of discussion on the part of the opposition which did not want to deal with those large parts of the government template that are available at all. [[Abg. Hans Helmut Moser: Oh yes! I brought you one!]] So you can't make it that simple that you say... [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: But now you just do it!]] No, I don't just do it! But on the one hand, to say that Parliament should deal with this, but on the other hand not to benefit from the time available at the Committee meetings for these debates, which is not in keeping with it. If you already have such great proposals, you should have brought them into the committees and discussed them. [[Abg. Dr Schmidt: You know what I'm talking about! Then you would rather not go into intermediate calls than in this way!]] I know exactly what you're talking about. But I also know very well that there have been the negotiations in parallel. I also agree by saying: The Committee's negotiations have not been taken very seriously by the opposition either, otherwise there should have been better contributions there. Mr Moser! All those who were present at the meeting of the Financial Committee yesterday also received it live. [[Abg. Hans Helmut Moser: They have not been taken by you that seriously!]] The second point, which seems particularly important to me – as the pension reform is not just about form issues – is the following. It is always discussed about the generation contract, and I believe that the generation agreement should be used to note justice – and I say this as a member of a generation who will once receive reduced pensions: I am not the ones who are already in retirement today, their relatively higher pensions, especially because it is a generation that has built up this country among quite others, very difficult, conditions and in times relatively low salaries. We, the generation of the descendants, have actually inherited a land with a developed and developed infrastructure, a rich land. That is why we must also demand that we make a greater contribution to the provision of pensions to those who have lived under greater abductions than we may be able to obtain at the end of our career. I think this is legitimate in the sense of the Generational Treaty. Against this background, however, the question arises: What are the parameters: What is tolerable and what is not tolerable? And there is now the comparability between the ASVG sector and the public service. I ask you quite openly: Would anyone here believe three, four or five years ago that there will eventually be the same calculation period in the ASVG sector and in the public service? [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: Of course! We asked him!]] But even you were skeptical. You should be surprised that it has succeeded in achieving this breakthrough in official pensions with the... [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: This old point is all right!]] We therefore agree on this one point. However, if you recall the comments made by Mr Stoisits, he is not an essential point, because he is a very important step forward for the employees of the public service. So now it comes to this essential incision. And there is no blockades, mass strikes and so on in Austria, for example, but this change takes place under the agreement of the representatives of those concerned. That is to say, one has obviously agreed on a formula that makes this system change compatible with those concerned. I believe that this is a measure of political culture, as it is rarely found in Europe and in the world, because such system changes are otherwise associated with far larger political conflicts on the streets. I believe that this must be emphasized in all the criticisms that one can practice and which are legitimate: The fact that Parliament has also been negotiated in parallel with the representatives of interests by the last minute certainly does not deserve a price of beauty in relation to parliamentarianism, but the result and the consent of the representatives of interest are worth accepting it in this way, and also that it is understood as a contribution to the political culture in that country and it is not only considered harmful to the parliamentary procedure. I believe that the final result of achieving a change of system, which takes place under the agreement of those concerned and without violent conflicts, is a great success for Austrian political culture and for parliamentarians, stakeholders and government members working in this context. However, it is perfectly clear – and I say that quite openly – that no one can estimate today what our productivity development will look like over the next 30 years, how our employment situation will develop over the next 30 years. Since no one can predict what the entire wage and income situation will look like in 30 years, I also believe that we have now taken an essential step, on the basis of what we can accept today and what is now possible. The result after the drawing board theory is not an optimal reform – that is by no means! – but it is the most optimal, which was enforceable under current political and social conditions. That's why it's a success.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e11835	The next speaker is Mr Hans Helmut Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e11860	Mr President. High house! I would like to refer to the comments made by my previous speaker, Mr Gusenbauer. Mr Gusenbauer! You are quite right when you say that the reform is the result of the negotiations and that this result is also an expression of very concrete power relations. But, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Gusenbauer: This result is a bad result, and it is at the start of the talks to measure the negotiations. So it is to be said that, in the negotiations conducted by Mr Ruttenstorfer, the Federal Government has not really achieved its goal. This must be said here in the House. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Gusenbauer also meant, and I agree with him in this respect that the events and procedures have not moved at the highest aesthetic level. That is why I was uncomfortable when I heard Mr Klubobmann Khol's speech, in which he described very pathetic words, how intensive discussions have been held here in Parliament, that proposals, amendments and so on could be put forward, and that it was then discussed in depth. Ladies and gentlemen! I mean, Mr Klubobmann Khol has drawn a completely false picture of the actual situation. Unfortunately, he is not here now, otherwise I would have asked him where he has been in the last few days. [[Abg. Dr. Khol enters the plenary room.]] Mr Khol! As you have described the outcome of the negotiations, they have by no means taken place! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You weren't there everywhere!]] Dear colleague Khol! I was present, for example, in the Committee on Budgets' deliberations. Obviously, we have had different perceptions. It started quite interesting: When the government template was there, we heard experts. For the first time, Parliament has dealt fully with this important issue, the question of the pension system, the pension reform. But then it was over suddenly. On Monday during the deliberations, there were only more interruptions, the shifts in the respective consultation dates and so on. We have tabled an amendment. It was not even ignored, it was not taken note of, let alone addressed or discussed by representatives of the government parties. On Tuesday, you obviously issued the parole that it is necessary to be filibustered in order not to reschedul the Blamage in order to interrupt the Committee's deliberations again, because the extra-parliamentary deliberations had not yet come to an end. Mr Khol! Even my request to the chairman of the committee to make at least that paper available to us that list of proposals that were just discussed extra-parliamentaryly was rejected. It was therefore clear that there could not be any real debate and that the Committee's discussions could only be qualified as a spectacle. We have come to the conclusion that the House did not really want to debate seriously, that there was no decision here and that this Parliament had been taken into the hostages of the public service and the social partners trade union. That is the sad record of the last few days' deliberations, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Gusenbauer also referred to the political culture and that important results had been achieved without any demonstrations and strikes as in other countries, which was merely due to the fact that the government had agreed with the social partners on this issue. I believe that Mr Gusenbauer is subject to a mistake of thought. If we had discussed this reform seriously here in Parliament, if we had seriously discussed it in the committees, if we had included experts and stakeholders in the deliberations – we have the opportunity, according to the Rules of Procedure, for example, in discussions in a subcommittee – then of course we would have achieved an equally good result. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Do you have anything to say about the content?]] Then we could have fulfilled Parliamentary responsibilities, my colleague, and then your group, together with the Socialist Group, would not have devalued this Parliament. In the last few days, however, you have done this by your behaviour, by your behaviour, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Kukacka.]] Mr Kukacka! This bad style will continue. For example, Mr Höchtl has come out of here today and has read a one-and-a-half-page amendment, naturally asking the question: Why has it not been discussed yesterday afternoon in committee? Why has this amendment not been submitted to the honourable Member in committee yesterday? – I tell you why: Because you were not finished because the discussions with the interest groups had not yet been completed! Ladies and gentlemen! We are being presented with such an amendment today and do not know what its financial impact would be like in the budget. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Are you for it or against it?]] I assume that Mr Ruttenstorfer, the State Secretary, will not and will not be able to provide us with very comprehensive information today. We will therefore reject this amendment, as well as the overall package to be adopted today. Ladies and gentlemen! The central point of discussion in today's debate is the so-called public service pension reform. There has not really been a comprehensive pension reform. Mr President, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. This shows that what is decided here today is nothing but a flicking work. It would have been necessary to cover all the networks, all the connections that are now available, with a modern service right, with a modern salary right. One should have shown the impact on pension rights and that we can only discuss this in a comprehensive way. Only in a comprehensive view could one have found and decided on the appropriate optimal solutions. But you did not do that, ladies and gentlemen of the government. That is why we will not agree to this regulation. In this context, we cannot speak of a real reform either. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Ruttenstorfer has also announced in the Committee's deliberations that there will be a comprehensive public service reform. I've heard this for several years now and can only say: The news I hear well, I alone lack faith. The State Secretary responsible for this in the past has failed to comply with similar announcements. I am afraid that Mr Ruttenstorfer, the Secretary of State, will be able to do the same, that it will remain only with the announcement and that the necessary reform of the public service will not take place. This is unfortunate, but it is obviously a fact that this Federal Government is not able to implement and implement the necessary reforms towards its officials and towards the interests of their representatives. One thing is clear: We need a modern service right. We need equality with the ASVG area. We need a salary reform. The pay schedule of the past few years has been properly mutilated under the then Secretary of State Kostelka. There is still no permeability of the system that would allow a change from the economy to the public service to be carried out without problems. Mr Ruttenstorfer has announced this today, but I cannot find any reference to it in the documents here. That is why I assume that the proposals for reform, which I hope will be presented to us in the next few days, will probably not be found. We have no structural analysis, no structural reform for the public service, for the administration of sovereignty, no innovation in the Federal Ministry's law, nor do we have any reform of tasks. There is therefore an urgent need for action to redefine and organise the tasks of the public administration, from the federal government to the countries to the municipalities. Ladies and gentlemen! All of this you have remained guilty of, and therefore there is no agreement of the Liberal Forum. However, I believe that it is necessary to bring in again my amendment, which I tabled in vain during the Committee's deliberations, here. Since this request was distributed in writing, I need to explain it very briefly. I would have expected the speakers of the coalition parties to take a short look at it today, but perhaps we could still discuss it during the course of the debate. Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, it is not acceptable that this reform will not begin until 2003. It is not acceptable that there are such long transitional periods, but it would be necessary that this reform – even if it is only a first small step, perhaps a small step in the right direction – be decided quickly and immediately. Therefore, the rapid entry into force of the reform is in the interest of the civil service and in the interest of the younger generation in our country, but it is also necessary because of the financial situation. I am now submitting an amendment tabled by the Moser and the partners. I don't need to read this in detail. The key points are that the reform will start with the year 2000 and not, as the Federal Government has negotiated and today's decision is to be taken in this Parliament, in 2003, and that the transitional provisions should not last until the Sankt-Nimmerleins day, but that this reform – i.e. the conversion period – will be fully effective by the year 2013. Ladies and gentlemen! I would ask you to agree to this request. I can ask you for more courage to reform. I can also expect you to demand more loyalty and solidarity from your officials. In other words, if they are not willing to do so, they should not take advantage of the advantages or the special provisions and the special arrangements for the public service. Ladies and gentlemen! I expect this House to hear the speakers from the coalition parties respond to this amendment and give it its approval. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e11958	The amendment to which Mr Moser refers and which he has explained in his key points is sufficient support, has been distributed in writing and is therefore under negotiation. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e12249	The next speaker is Mr Mühlbachler. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e12270	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen of the LIF! Unfortunately, I did not get your amendment from the content to the face. If it is true, however, that Mr Moser, at the end of his speech, has given his assent, namely that he wants the full calculation to be carried out already in 2013, I am sure that I cannot accept the request. Mr Moser! You must first show me how it can be achieved that the full 18-year calculation period is already being carried in 2013 if there is to be a smooth transitional arrangement. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hans Helmut Moser.]] I am sure that you have misinterpreted this, so we can certainly not agree to this request. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In principle, I would like to address the following: Since I was here in Parliament, I have always heard from the opposition parties only about historical opportunities that have been missed or missed, from the powerlessness of the government and so on and so on. [[Abg. Dr Gredler: Exactly!]] I am surprised that the Austrians have a very different nature in this country of Austria when they show the opposition. According to the opposition criticism, it would no longer fit and vote in this country of Austria. [[Abg. Dr Gredler: It's like that anyway!]] But reality is quite another. Now on pension reform in general: Mr Moser, but also speakers from the liberals, pretend that a pension reform would be a fixed provision of agreements that are valid for all time. I wondered very much about the following: On the one hand, Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that the Federal Government's share in the total burden on pensions is no longer 33 per cent, and he criticised the fact that it has fallen to 23.4 per cent, but on the other hand, he said in the next sentence that a discharge must be made and that the pension reform to be taken by officials is far too low. Now I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, of the liberals: What do you want? You really? Wings They say to the Austrian population on Day A: The reform has been far too rigid! And on the day B before another client say: The reform should have been much milder? This is not how it is done, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! You should be a little more focused on facts and facts. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Because we're just about data and facts: Especially the liberals have set themselves the goal – and their Bundesobmann is really a model for them – to thresh the officials where they are going. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Are you afraid of your voters now?! Oh, my God!]] This is not about the fear of our voters, but it is simply about the fact that it is obviously not known to the liberals just how the facts and facts look. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Aumayr.]] Mrs Aumayr, please tell me I don't think you're talking about the problems of the ÖVP. Recently, elections were held in Upper Austria, and we have clearly shown you that we are more than twice as much as you are, and that has been quite good. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] We will show you that again and again, and you can still shout so loud! It'll stay there. [[New call of the abg. Aumayr.]] Another thing: It is always spoken of by the great privileges of officials and that the officials deserve so much. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, if you were to take at least those documents that you are presented as a parliamentarian, namely the "Handbuch der Österreichische Sozialversicherungen", then you would see that, for example, male officials earn an average of 24 253 S, the employees 29 999 p. – Yes, please, where is the great privilege of officials? Or: Mrs Schaffenrath of the Liberals claims that the average retirement of teachers is 46 000 S. I wonder where she taught, in which school she was a teacher, whether she even knows what a teacher deserves in Austria. Was she in a very special category? [[Abg. Böhacker: Only when he is a politician and a teacher does he earn 46 000 S!]] Colleague Böhacker – poor, really poor! Again and again, your side determines how great the political privileges are. I recommend you: Unprivileged once! You can give up! I showed it to you: When I gave up my references, they still referred to "our" teachers and "eurs" public servants. It's actually gone. I swear to you: If you forsake your references, you will see that it is going, but you have to trust! [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: We have 60 000 S net!]] Because you have been sorry for so long, I ask of you that at last you may be disprivileged so that you do not always have to be in grief out here. Demonstrate this once! But, please, make it quick! Unless you're not willing at all. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Sign our 60 000 S rule!]] That's exactly what I've been talking about. You want to deprivile yourselves? Then it'll do it at last! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] One last: Of course, a pension reform like this one is necessary, which is also dependent on demographic development. Demographic development and, of course, the relationship between working people and retired citizens is crucial to the extent to which the burden on the workers and the burden on the public is on the pension system. Therefore, there will have to be re-adjustments in this reform again and again. But only harmonisation will make re-adjustment more precise and, as I believe, easier. Ladies and gentlemen! I find it abominable if individual groups of people are played against others. In the last few weeks and months, the officials have been beaten up again and again, of course, by small political groups, and even in the worst way. I would like to make it clear that this is not the case. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Those officials I know – be it in the Freistadt financial office, whether it be in the Freistadt district headquarters, whether it be at the employment office, or at the Freistadt municipality – are all willing to do their money good service to the Austrian population. That is a very important matter! This, ladies and gentlemen, should also be made clear. It is not the case, as Dr. Haider says, that we have the condition that one third of the officials do not work at all, one third of the civil servants do the same and one third of the officials do the work for the others. This was so expressed by him in an interview with "daily everything" in this year. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! From this contempt it is clear to me that, of course, you cannot agree to a pension reform, which is likely to take account of the situation of officials and which will also understand their fears for the future. However, I would never like to hear from you again that you are in favour of this professional group, in view of these abuses. That would be plausible and dishonest!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e12418	The next speaker is Mr Deputies Van der Bellen. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e12440	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! I would like to start by saying that I am very pleased with the speech by the Secretary of State on the reform measures that are now being decided. His speech was a cool, factual presentation, if I can judge it, because I am not an expert in this field. You don't always hear this from the government bank. I will then also read the speech in the Minutes. In any event, I believe that all the details of this reform, such as the calculation period, the retirement provisions, the changes in the adjustments to pensions, the cover against disadvantages, the various changes in the taking into account of child rearing periods, the incapacity to work, the working hours, and the interesting history of reducing pension contributions for younger officials who no longer benefit from the cover can be read well in this speech. What makes sense of it and what is not, you can discuss in detail. But I do not really want to address that in my brief speech. What I'm guessing about, Mr State Secretary, and what I don't understand is this: The starting point in 1997 was that according to a study by the World Bank Austria with pension expenditure of 16 percent of GDP, if not world champions, yet near the world champion, at least has very high international pension expenditure. In January of this year, if I remember correctly, a study of employees of the International Monetary Fund has been published specifically on Austria. There is an OECD study specifically on Austria. There is a mention of the pension problem of some pages in the OECD Country Report on Austria. The Quintessence of the whole is: Depending on the scenario used, according to the assumptions of productivity, and so on, these studies conclude that pension expenditure will increase by about 8 percentage points and 16 percentage points of GDP by 2020, i.e. in the worst case – let us take this provisionally – a doubling of current pension expenditure will take place. All these studies, ladies and gentlemen, do not include the rest of the civil servants at all. These studies relate exclusively to ASVG, GSVG, the farmers and a few remaining groups, i.e. essentially to the classical ASVG sector. The reform requirement for the pension system, provided that these international studies are believed, is 8 per cent to 16 per cent of GDP, as measured by the status quo scenario for 2020. The Rürup study commissioned by the Ministry of Social Affairs is more likely to be at the bottom of these scenarios, as far as I am aware. It was already in the government template at that time – Mr. State Secretary Ruttenstorfer has already repeated it today – as follows: The Federal Government's net expenditure on pensions will rise relatively rapidly, make up 1.4 percent of GDP today and make up 1.7 percent of GDP in 2030, if nothing happens. The Federal Government hopes to achieve a stabilisation of 1.4 percent to 1.5 percent with these reforms. Ladies and gentlemen! Because of 0.2 percent of GDP such an effort?- Oh, my God! I don't understand at all. We're talking about magnitudes that make up the 20-, 30-, 40-fold and more – I'm still at the bottom of these scenarios. The budgetary priorities would then have to be, if these figures really were to be voted – and I quote only the figures of the Federal Government – somewhere else! What I would like to have answered now from you, Mr State Secretary, ladies and gentlemen from the Governmental Parties, is the question: In your opinion, what impact do pension reforms now have on pension expenditure in the Republic of Austria of 2020 – not just the official pension reform, but the pension reforms this week? Is there anything there? In what way is what you are hoping for quantitatively comprehensible? The second question is: When to Remember You, two independent international organisations or institutions – I am instructing my international, independent organisations, such as the International Monetary Fund, the OECD in Paris or the EU Commission in Brussels – to review these figures according to different assumptions? There will be different scenarios, that's clear. It is also clear that there is no absolute certainty as to the demographic development of over 30 years of unsecured forecasts. I would like to know in what order these reforms are moving. As long as You do not present these independent opinions, as long as it is much more plausible to assume that you have, of course, not made a pension reform which is in line with the original objective of ensuring the pension system by 2020, 2025. Of course, it is not a century work, as it was originally said, unless you only expect this century, but it will end in three years. For this century it may be the appropriate work. As far as evidence of the opposite is concerned, every reasonable person must assume that, in view of this week's pension reforms, in line with the SPÖ's winter 1995 election promises, the interests of the current generation of pensioners, i.e. those that have, so to speak, existing pension schemes, have been taken into account, but that the interests of the younger generation have clearly not been taken into account. They disputed the fact that from the year 2000, a few promillepoints will be paid less pension contributions from the officials. – This cannot be done in the Being a consolation for all people under 40 or under 35 years of age. In other words: The next pension reform is guaranteed, not before the 1999 elections, but immediately after the 2000 elections. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e12501	The next speaker was Mr Antoni. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e12522	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! As a large number of speakers have already dealt with the entire pension reform in the field of officials, my speech will refer only to the teachers' package. First of all, I would like to point out that the discussion and preparation of the teachers' package, which is also part of the budget accompanying law, has unfortunately preceded a multi-monthly period of teachers' insecurity and abuse. And I can say that I am very sorry that almost all Austrian media seem to have fallen into this matter with joy. Let me take a few highlights of this phase again: One day it was noticed that there are teachers in evening schools who, because they are specialists in their profession and because no other colleague of this special subject works at the school, come to terms near the 100 000 S limit. This is not a sin of the individual teacher in God, but this situation is legally in order because of the laws adopted here in this House. Then there was the undifferentiated discussion about the proposal of the President of the Vienna City School Council, who thought aloud about having all teachers of parents and students judged, which, for example, led the ORF to make a broadcast "For business" with the headline "Blue Letter for Teachers". And there were other unpleasant reports on this matter. However, I believe that the summit was when Professor Krumm published his study from the University of Salzburg, in which he said that in the school violence was also exercised by teachers – he spoke of "psychic violence". This has led to the transport of the media: Screaming, testing and finishing – this is what teachers in this Republic do. In the "Kurier" it read: "Austrian student feels mentally terrorized according to a survey of teachers." – This appears plausible to every adult who has himself become victims of Hebrew, unjust and cynical treatment in school. Ladies and gentlemen! In the light of these discussions and in the light of these outrages – I say again – the preparation of the teachers' package has begun. It is to be thanked by the minds of the trade union negotiators, on the part of the school and finally by the Ministry of Finance for the structural corrections and structural adjustment which I would like to briefly explain. The Civil Service Law contains a special arrangement for teachers, which allows teachers when they are 55 years old. have finished living, can be retired early – if they want it. This special scheme is limited in time. It shall enter into force on 1 January 2017. ==References====External links== ==References== Therefore, only older teachers are affected by this scheme. The aim of this special scheme is on the one hand to achieve a better mix of older and younger teachers, i.e. to correct the age structure, and on the other hand to offer additional jobs to young teachers. I can say: Both need the school! Two other measures, i.e. the so-called interim exemption and the early retirement exemption I do not wish to address in detail, are also aimed at providing more jobs for young teachers. However, they also offer the teachers in service the opportunity to make the personal career more flexible; and I believe that this was always a desire of the teacher. I would like to point out here that no one should be jealous of teachers in this regard, because it must not be overlooked that both the various early retirement models and interim benefits are linked to partly sensitive wage and pension losses. I should like to point out that additional services have also been re-regulated, with particular reference to the criticism in a report on the Court of Auditors. From this point of view, § 61 of the Wage Act has been amended. In this area, the negotiations between the partners, of course, were particularly tough and difficult. Finally, as a viable result, it was agreed that, in principle, the remuneration of multiservices is limited to the actual provision of instruction and is paid accordingly. Furthermore, new regulations have been introduced – I mention this only briefly – to pay for multi-day school events as well as to flexibilise the charging possibilities of the so-called Custodiates. In the Landeslehrer-Dienstleistrechtsgesetz, a new regulation of the representation of the principals was added. Let me summarize: The draft of this teachers' package – which is only too understandable – does not provide the teachers concerned with any cause for euphoria. We have all received numerous protest letters, resolutions and rejections in the last few days and weeks, which show us that the mood in our schools is not the best at the moment. However, I should like to point out that the draft law also meets a number of wishes and expectations of many teachers. I would like to mention the increased flexibility of independent career design, the possibility of part-time work, carnation and further training. I refer to the increased scope for design in schools in connection with the allocation of units of value, in so far as they concern Kustodiates and other services, and to the introduction of the new provisions concerning the remuneration of school events. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Teachers today, as I mean, are in a very ambivalent situation. On the one hand, they are expected to be motivated and involved in the necessary educational changes and renewals in our school system, but at the same time they are expected to retire early on from solidarity with unemployed young teachers under enormous financial losses, to reduce their service time and more. Finally, let me say: The dynamics of school development, the urgently needed changes that result from school development, will continue to increase. More autonomy, more self-management at schools, self-responsible curriculum development at our schools, i.e. quality assurance and evaluation in the field of education, require committed teachers. If we want to achieve these ambitious goals – we have been constantly talking about lifelong learning lately – we need committed and motivated teachers. I believe that in the future we will all have to make a little more efforts together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e12595	The next speaker is Mr Rosenstingl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e12616	High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In his speech, Mr Mühlbachler meant that the coalition was making major reforms. The opposition has criticized this for many years, but the population has a sense of the work of the government coalition. I would, of course, like to agree with Mr Mühlbachler. The fact that the population has a sensitivity to the work of the government proves that the citizens you mentioned are running away from the government coalition in all elections. That's fact! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] As an ÖVP administrator, you have a bit of a problem, Mr President. The surveys clearly show that the population is very sensitive to government work, because they have clearly referred you to third place – and there you belong, Mr Commissioner! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been said today that this pension reform is, in fact, not a reform that has remained a long way. However, the government template still includes an area that is a very special hardship for me. I am referring to Article 14 of the Government's proposal concerning the benefits of Post and Telekom Austria AG. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! With the postal staff was and is run by this government an evil game. The main actor in this game is Mr. Bundeskanzler Klima. I can quote the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany: In the next three years, 7,000 employees will be reduced by natural departure. Of course, that's what it's all about. Postlers are great people, good people, the Postlers are at my heart, which I don't like. – These were the words of German Chancellor Klima at the TV election confrontation with our Federal Observer Dr. Jörg Haiderim November 1995. Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Chancellor has not only kept the Postler to shame but also told them the untruth because it is not about 7,000 employees who are being dismantled by natural waste, but by 9,500 Postlers, who now have to be freed with 80 percent of their last relationship. It is no longer a talk of a natural departure, and it is no longer a talk of the voluntaryness of this carnation. This too is an dishonest representation that you repeatedly use from the government coalition. I can prove it to you, too. The proof is a letter from the Board of Posts and Telekom Austria of 3. In October 1997 the management of structural adaptations. That is why I would like to quote the last paragraph. It says: Above all, it will be your responsibility as a manager to find means and ways to organize your tasks with fewer staff. The rational organization of work is one of the top tasks of every manager. In the future, the Executive Board will therefore pay particular attention to those employees and executives who have demonstrated themselves in this project through concrete contributions and creativity. We acknowledge that for this commitment to the future of our company, not only must you not grow up any disadvantages, but it will even contribute to the promotion of your career. In any event, the value of all management positions in our company will not be changed as a result of personnel reduction measures. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! What does that mean in truth? – This means that the second level of the management board of the post was encouraged by the board to select 9,500 people and organise their exemption. That cannot be the task of this level of leadership! It cannot be a task to create social hardships! Ladies and gentlemen! I say one thing to you very clearly: This kind of personnel policy is not just to be rejected, but I refer to this kind of personnel policy that you have to answer with your laws as being objectionable. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] These carnations create cases of hardness. They send people who have very little pay, with 80 percent of their relationship to the carnation. This does not affect the big earners at the post office, but there are thousands of small earners who are now expected to get 80 percent of their subscription in the future. You have to answer this non-social policy! They have in the past pursued a wrong postal policy, and with this government template, with this today's decision will be They continue to pursue this false postal policy and thus also support or pursue a non-social policy. The negative development of Post and Telekom Austria is also illustrated by another example. Postalers are being dismantled, small officials, small employees are being dismantled. On-site customer service is getting worse. In some places the post offices will not be locked up for as long as they have been, there will also be post offices locked up. However, the Directorate-General is growing for this purpose. I can compare this with the comparison between 1987 and 1997. In 1987, there were 21 departments in the Directorate-General, and in 1997 there were 47 departments in the Directorate-General. In 1987 there were 449 staff employed in the Directorate-General, and in 1997 685 staff were employed in the Directorate-General. – All according to the motto you pay tribute to: We are decommissioning the posters, we are decommissioning staff, we are creating social hardships, but we are bluffing the administration sector, we are bluffing the big earners, because we can put our own people in there, we can take a strong part in the post office chess, and therefore we are bluffing this Directorate-General. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Let me conclude by saying: This non-social policy at the post office is also responsible for the unfortunately today's management arrangements. Extreme hardships are created, you have to answer as a government coalition. Postal policy proves that the so-called'maker climate' is nothing but a proverbial sacrifice, which constantly tells the citizens the untruth.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e12700	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Cordula Frieser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e12725	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The legal act to be decided today, I believe, has already been discussed in detail. Unfortunately, we have only experienced the arguments of the opposition today, now and here. I therefore do not want to repeat what has already been said and join those previous speakers who have turned their attention to the future, to an efficient and slim administration device, to a lean management and new public management. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Let me give you two examples of how important it is to adapt legislative instruments such as civil service law and the right of civil servants to include new pension rights. I often have to deal with the financial offices, as you know. Financial offices have had to save 5 percent of posts in the last two years. There are departments in financial offices that are completely overburdened, but there are still free resources in other departments. Due to the existing rights of service, due to the camera music, it is not possible to deal with these bottlenecks by reversing free capacities. Another example: It has developed a model for the vehicle registration office in Graz, which could be used with fewer posts to obtain more approvals per day, thus saving posts and at the same time creating a service component for the civil servants. However, it was not possible to implement this model because of the existing rights – I say this as flat-rate as possible. Ladies and gentlemen! That is why it is up to us in the future to create conditions that will drive us away from this much-quoted official state, which has some typical features – let me count some of them –: There is no incentive for cost minimisation – that is clear – due to the Roomalist provisions. The budget appropriations must be spent. We know this painful phenomenon. Fees shall be abolished regardless of the costs and benefits actually incurred. Officials' career thinking refers exclusively to the age of service. The payment of the reference is, as we all know, not performance-oriented, but is based on an alienation principle. There are still some features to list. We, ladies and gentlemen, are called upon to change this, namely to one, as mentioned above, Lean management, to the much-quoted new-public management. Finally, let me take a quote from the mirror. It amuses me very much, and I leave it to the listener, how he interprets it or whether he thinks that this also applies to Austria: The new generation of bureaucrats could do much better what, according to the definition of Bull, has always been the meaning and purpose of civil service: be careful not to make politicians stupid. – In this sense, I thank the officials.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e12780	The next speaker is Mr Reinhart Gaugg. – He was deleted from the list of speakers. Then Mr Spindelegger is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e12807	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! We have seen today how this debate was opened: Mr Haider has met the pension reform problem with the point-finger mentality. He has shown the head of the section, as if this were the average reference for the administration and for the officials we are dealing with. – Ladies and gentlemen! With the show-finger mentality you can't create a pension reform. I believe that the next speeches that we have heard, such as those of Mr Volker Kier, who does not point out with a sign of mentality, but who likes to lift the moral index finger, have not shown any suitable ways of actually addressing this reform. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: There are several pointing fingers!]] For what I heard from Mr Volker Kier and from the Liberals was that they spoke against a redistribution, saying that everything should remain self-sufficient. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: Don't understand! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no! Don't understand! Read it again! Don't watch out!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Liberals! Your proposal, which you have just presented to the public, was that in Austria an unemployment income of 8,000 s should be introduced for everyone, whether he wants to work or not. What is the other thing than the greatest redistribution you can even imagine?- Oh, my God! – I think you have disqualified yourself with this proposal! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Pension reform means that one has to work out the extent to which one is willing and able to contribute to this reform work and to the lower pensions in the future. As a 38-year-old public servant, I am willing to share this fully. I am also personally prepared to take on the 18 years of calculation, as they are now planned, because I know that I cannot close my eyes before this development because everyone is getting older. I know that I also have to stand by and make my contribution. Ladies and gentlemen! If you had discussed this, I would have liked you to make a contribution. But I didn't hear about that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would not call the current debate and the reform work on the table a success. It is a necessary regulation. It is not about taking away someone with joy and arrogance and the difficulty of reform, but about doing the necessary thing. I believe that what this reform will accomplish – much of it has already been mentioned today – is to be seen politically. This train in the direction of pension reform is now on another track and will therefore not be on the Prellbock, as was the case from the development. Secondly, I believe that the value of the agreement reached with the social partners should not be underestimated. We do not want Austria with strike and with a complete disharmony between public service and service providers, but we want an Austria where regulations are still being agreed between the social partners. Thirdly, I believe that this will open up at least a certain perspective to younger people. They say: Too late! All this is nothing! This is not a reform! – But the perspective is at least there to be able to make a picture of what you will meet yourself. Other options have also been mentioned here today, such as the three-pillar model of the FPÖ. That's good and nice. The idea is really good, dear colleague: It has been ours and has been preached for 20 years. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: This shows that you have nothing to talk about in the government!]] The three-pillar model is an ÖVP idea, but we see a completely different way of implementation. We believe that the second and third pillars must be added to the first pillar and that we cannot make Tabula rasa and introduce a completely new system in Austria. That's unrealistic what you've precipitated here today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! A three-pillar model, as you have spread today, can be introduced into "Kaukania", but not in Austria. We have enough pensioners, and we have a lot of people in this system today. How do you want to offer a perspective to those in front of the pension with your three-pillar model? – That will hardly be possible. Or have You're not an insurance mathematician in your series who could calculate that? - That's ridiculous. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] A three-pillar model from our perspective means that the second and the third columns are the first to be added. But the first pillar is the essential one, and we now have to take care of its reform. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, it will certainly not have any use for us to consider only the pension reform, but we will have to do more for the public service. We will be pressing for an administrative reform – in the sense of a task reform and not in the sense of what the liberals proclaim. I can quote from a beautiful paper, which calls itself "Work for Austria – Key Programme of the Freedoms". If I look at point 1.7, ladies and gentlemen, I must say that I am already a little surprised. There the following is written for administrative reform – I quote literally: Heading: Abolition of the District Headquarters. Subtitle: In the short term, compensation is planned for the entire district administration level, which should lead to the complete abolition of the district headquarters in a longer term perspective. - Quote. Ladies and gentlemen! You want to abolish institutions like a district captain? - We don't want that! [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: And uplift the communities! You have to say that!]] We really are not about the abolition of such an institution that works so well today. We want to reform the tasks so that fewer officials can do well what is law. I think that will succeed. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We will therefore need an administrative reform in the sense of a job reform. We will also insist that there is a system of self-sufficiency for those who will be fully affected by this calculation period in the future. That is to say, the next tax reform must also be tax-advanced if you start building up something by the way. Thirdly, I believe that today's young officials are not fully integrated into this calculation period, but are also affected by a reform in which there is no longer any cover. In the case of assets, too, we should start and consider how we might turn some instrument of a service allowance into an earlier allowance, for example on the occasion of a marriage, from the reason that someone receives a child. I think that would be essential, and there are also ways of doing something. I therefore believe that it is not a reform work, but a necessary regulation that needs to be decided today, but it is indeed a proper step in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e12935	Next word: Mr Laber. 9 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e12956	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Spindelegger, speaking here of a "reform" of the pension system, is really not right. The reform turned out to be a referendum. The second aspect you mentioned here, this three-pillar model stems from the ÖVP and is 20 years old, I must absolutely contradict. The three-pillar model is a program of the FPÖ, and I would be pleased if you could read this model through and join it. It contains absolutely reasonable approaches, and it is also suitable for you to discuss. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] What are the causes of this so-called reform, as it has already been mentioned, of reforms already carried out in 1984, 1988, 1993 and 1995 – with this commitment, which goes far into the new millennium? – Never did it! This time again, the Committee has said that this is a reform that would go far into the new millennium. – Absolutely incorrect! Press articles are written, and Professor Rürup also says: Today's high-quality measures have ensured funding for only ten years. – What does that mean? – This means that at the beginning of the new millennium we will have to discuss the pension again and we will have to change again, as it is proven that this is not eligible for funding. Of this change, which my colleague, Mr President, has just mentioned today, in fact, all those who are between 35 and 40 years old are most affected. It is precisely they that fall into this absolute calculation period and have to bear the full hardness of this change. Here is an example from the "Kurier" of the 1st century. November: For a now 35-year-old executive officer of the Criminal Police, who entered her profession with 7 600 S gross in 1980, a minute comes when she comes to 60. Year of retirement, of nearly 8,000 p.m. – This must lead to one’s being mooded! – Or a maturant, 18 years old, with a initial content of 6,000 S gross loses almost 5,000 S gross. – Many such examples could be cited. Officials of the public service are facing enormous financial disadvantages. One point has not yet been raised in all these debates. It was, of course, very difficult to figure this out, but I tried. Above all, it is the poorer calculation of the additional charges which the officials hit particularly hard. Additional fees are set out in § 5 para. In the Follow-up Act: In § 5 para. 2 the term "the 437.5th part" is replaced by the term "one seven hundredths". – Short sentence, big effect, or: small sentence, big effect. Even though this is to be done in stages, the new calculation will lead to very painful financial losses in the pension. Additional fees acquired by the year 2001 will remain unchanged in the future and will be calculated using the Divisor 437.5. All additional charges acquired from 2001 shall be calculated after multiplying by the hundredth rate and the divisor of 700. In simple terms, this means that all officials who will retire from 2014 will receive significantly less money for the same number of additional charges, i.e. a lower additional fee allowance, especially when most of the additional charges have only been purchased from 2001. How serious this calculation can be, an example illustrates about, and therefore only about, because the values now being used will change over the next few years. ==References====External links== In this calculation, about 25 percent of the additional charges are lost during the lifetime of the service. Or another example: An official who comes to additional charges from 2001 will lose about 40 percent. This is very serious for the calculation of his pension. We certainly cannot agree with this provision of the additional charges, as my previous speakers have already pointed out, that we cannot agree with this so-called reform or the referendum. Nevertheless, I would like to point out once again our three-pillar model, which should be present and included in the discussion. I believe that this three-pillar model, which is known to work well in Switzerland and the Netherlands, could also be carried out in Austria and that this system could be used to create a future model for this very expensive and very complicated system, which we now have, so that the next generation can be assured. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e13026	A further speech was made by Mr Böhacker. 9 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e13047	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! It may be surprising to some fellow Members when a freelancer is talking about official pension reform, but I can tell you that I myself have been a public official for a decade, in the financial administration, and therefore I know what I am talking about. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: Böhacker, that's not surprising!]] I will not be prescribed by the ex-HAK director, mayor and national council member Mühlbachler, whether and when I will speak for officials, whether and when I will work for the civil service if necessary. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] As a participant in the meetings of the Financial Committee on Pension Reform in the Public Service, I was in principle able to see a broad consensus in three ways. First of all: All experts and all participants believed that a public service pension reform is necessary. Only the question when and how remained open. Secondly, All felt that there should be a harmonisation of the provisions of the framework conditions between public service, i.e. if you wish to do so, the protected area, and the ASVG, the private sector, i.e. the exposed area. Thirdly, It was clear that a pension reform in the civil service sector can only represent part of a comprehensive reform, a comprehensive modernisation of the public service as a whole. In all these three Regrettably, the Austrian Federal Government has stopped half way, or has gone the worst of all ways. A journalist has formulated it this way today: "The loud folding of the red-black grid storks is stupid." [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Call the SPÖ: "Tosser" applause!]] On the way in which this pension reform is to take place, there is a shocking outcome when one hears into the people. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: To what?]] With the ear, Mr. Hazelsteiner! – The result, Mr State Secretary, is that this Federal Government has succeeded in carrying a new form of class struggle into the population: no more work against capital or capital against work, but a class struggle between public servants and privately organised staff. I'll tell you: You have the responsibility of the government for this! I too have, as Mrs Mag. Cordula Frieser, many contacts with public servants. And I would like to point out to you: The uncertainty, the frustration, the de motivating down to the bitterness are great in the public service. [[Call the ÖVP: The carnival is over!]] I invite you, Mr State Secretary, to go to the services once and talk to the officials so that they can do so to you – not as officials, but as small officials! – their opinions can be expressed. On the other hand, there is an ever-increasing aggressiveness of private workers vis-à-vis the so-called protected area. It is observed repeatedly: The officials don't do anything, they're lazy, and so on. And it is pointed to alleged privileges. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! It's a socio-political explosion! And if this goes up, then you, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, bear the responsibility for it! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Harmonization. This reform does not bring any harmonisation in the field of labour and social rights between civil servants and the private sector. No harmonisation has even been achieved between the individual local authorities in the field of remuneration. Mr Mag. In the hearing, also for me, Pf has mentioned surprising numbers that are significant. If one compares, for example, what in general administration constitutes the middle income of a B official, say Maturants, in the federal government, namely 28 500 S, that of a national official in Carinthia, namely 36 000 S, and that of a national official in Burgenland, 35 200 S, then, ladies and gentlemen, one cannot talk about harmonisation in any way whatsoever. Further: A pension reform in the civil service sector can only be part of a comprehensive modernisation of the public service. Mr. State Secretary, where is the long-standing Federal Employment Act? For decades, you could almost say, it's going to work on it, it's working on it, but it's still missing. Mr State Secretary, where is a real salary reform which establishes a new line of income comparable to that of the private sector, where the initial remuneration is increased accordingly, so that not, as is the case at present, in the last third of the employment of public servants, there is a steep increase in income? This so-called service age principle is an essential reason for the miscarriage of public officials in the pension sector. And the new remuneration system for public servants, adopted in 1994, has once again gone this wrong path. For example, the functional allowances were, in principle, staggered, not according to the function as such, but according to the age of service. For example, if someone in A1 with 36 years of age becomes department head in a FLD, he will receive a functional allowance of 3 157 S. If someone has the same function at 60 years of age, he will receive 20 751 S of restable functional allowance. As a result, the problem of pensions in the public sector is once again enormously aggravated. Mr State Secretary, where are the tax policy accompanying measures that are constantly being taken by the EIA? It sounds very nice when, for example, Mr Commissioner stupid or Dr Spindelegger thinks that the second pillar should be suspension accordingly in tax terms. But what have you done lately? – Exactly the opposite, ladies and gentlemen! They have reduced special expenditure, even removed from a certain area of income. And now you are demanding a tax advantage of the second and third pillars. Doppelbödiger, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, is no longer possible! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] My previous speaker, Mr Lammer, has already done this: In the area of public service pensions, too, harmonisation, the introduction of the three-pillar model is to be achieved. In conclusion, I should like to make the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is a constructive proposal to be able to solve the problem of civil servants' pensions. Let me briefly highlight what you have put forward here, ladies and gentlemen: The introduction of the calculation periods for officials or the extension of the calculation periods for ASVG insured persons means a massive deterioration for future pensioners. In addition, detailed improvements for minor workers and women cannot conceal the fact that the life situation of Austrian workers will worsen. In particular, the system for officials, which will affect not only court councils but also many "small" officials, represents a special hardship. – That does not say the "evil" opposition member Böhacker, but the Social Democratic MP Posch! There's nothing to add to that.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e13179	The motion for a resolution that has just been read has been properly tabled, is supported accordingly and is therefore under negotiation. The next speech is by Mrs Partik-Pablé. Voluntary speaking time limit: 9 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e13204	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I can recall that there was also a pension reform in 1993, and in similar words you congratulated yourself at that time. The government congratulated Parliament, the SPÖ and ÖVP have congratulated each other, they have knocked one another on their shoulders, and they have said that this is now the "thousand thousand reform" which will address all the problems in the pension sector. Mrs Hostasch – who was still the chairman of the Committee at the time – said: "We have now found a suitable tool to ensure the financing of pensions in the long term." Today, however, you do not want to know anything about the fact that you said at the time that this 1993 pension reform will continue, as it were, until the millennium limit. Today, you do not want to know any more that you have promised a long-term recovery of the pension system. But I would like to remind you again: For exactly four and a half years, this "reform" you have tried to sell us or the population as a "thousand reform"! They have said that this funding of the pension system will last at the earliest by the year 2010 – in fact, after four and a half years, we are now standing there and seeing that the financing of pensions is at risk again. I would like to remind you of the words of the then Minister of Social Affairs Hesoun. He said: "I also think I can say that we have presented a pension system with the pension reform at present due to the possibilities for funding, which really goes up to 2010 and goes beyond that." My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP! You would have every reason to act modestly today to say: We were wrong at the time, and we took wrong measures at the time, because we have now seen that the money for pensions is not going on. – In fact, however, go You are out here today and once again claim that it is all right what you are doing, you reject all that the opposition or experts tell you, and continue to insist on this pure charging system, as we have so far. I can tell you, ladies and gentlemen: Today, this payment system alone is no longer able to secure pensions. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You must at least move towards a mixed system, as we have proposed in the form of the three-pillar model. Most OECD countries already have a mixed system consisting of charging procedures and capital coverage procedures. But in your sourceness and in your shortsightedness, which has obviously become the motto of your government, you are unfortunately not willing to see what has gone wrong so far. And that's what we're going to blame you! The danger to your government is that you are in fact only trying to get over the rounds today – and not think of tomorrow. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Sozialminister Hesoun, who has said that the pension reform will last until 2010, is now no longer on the ministerial bank; he is no longer a Member of Parliament. He's no longer responsible. He just wanted to get over the rounds – just like you today! I believe that this is dangerous for us, for the people, and you really should take a turnaround from this policy, ladies and gentlemen. I would also like to make the following accusations to you: They decide on this so-called pension reform today, at the expense of those who already deserve little money, at the expense of those who have already reached the poverty line. They harm the young people who start working first, who don't even have a job yet. You take the opportunity to make provision for your own pension provision through a reasonable pension system now. The people who are in the process of work are quicking up, they will have a pension in 2020 and 2030, but you already know very well, because of expert opinions today, that this will not be the case. And this is what I blame you for not thinking about young people! However, I also blame you for once again scrapping the disabled. The disabled have already contributed to the recovery of your budget, which you have brought into disorder by means of a long-term debt policy, in the savings package with 4 billion schillings. And now, once again, the disabled are coming to a kiss because you do not give them a valorization of the care allowance. They do not give them a permanent evaluation, and you also include the minor employees in the general social security obligation. Again, the disabled are affected, because many of them have attracted little workers to their care. I do not need to tell Mr Kostelka at all that this pension reform is socially balanced. No one really believes this, except perhaps you from the government parties you are sitting here in Parliament. Mr Kostelka has also said that he represents a state that is not a night watchman state, but a state that is behind the individual when he needs support when he is in need. But, ladies and gentlemen, the disabled are in need, they need the support of the state! But what are you doing? – They do not even admit to the disabled the necessary increase of their care allowance by valorizing the same. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I would like to speak to a group, and these are the executive officials who have already mentioned my colleague Lammer. These are indeed not great earners. My colleague has already mentioned the example of a 32-year-old executive official who is now referring to about 20 000 S gross. That is, if it goes well, 14 000 S or 15 000 S net. If he is in service for 20 years and then retires for about 2026, he loses 25 percent of his pension compared to that he is now entitled to, just because the additional fees are not included in the full amount as before. This again harms those who already live more or less on the poverty line. And with an official who only starts to work in 2001, the ratio to his disfavors worsens by 40 percent. You should keep this in mind, ladies and gentlemen. All those who talk about a "reform" that is "human", the "fair", should consider how this "reform" affects some of the population groups or some workers. I would really recommend that! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They do not burden the great earners. They burden the "little" officials. They burden the disabled. They also burden women. It has already been said several times that not only we are saying this, but also your colleague Posch, who has some competence on social issues too. You should really consider whether this is the right way for Austria! Ladies and gentlemen! We have already been accused of everything possible today. Among other things, Mr Khol said that the opposition would be preferable if there had been no reform. . Yes, such a reform, Mr Khol, as you put it here, is really not pleasant to us. We wanted a real system correction as it is necessary to secure pensions beyond the millennium limit at this time and under these conditions.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e13303	Mr Salzl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e13324	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The "pension reform" debated today is not a solidarity and just reform. Our current system of payments is very much linked to employment. It insists that there is a high level of employment, and if this high level of employment is no longer available, pension funding will hang up in the air despite all these reform projects. In addition, it is even more difficult to see people in our society getting older. Ladies and gentlemen! These are two very essential reasons, therefore, why such a system of payment is no longer modern and this so-called "pension reform" is actually not a real reform, even a reflection. In reality, the government has only bought time with these changes, which are mostly at the expense of the poor, but especially at the expense of young people, because this reform is not a long-term recovery of pensions, but only a short-term budget recovery action. Ladies and gentlemen! This morning, in the "Teletext", I read the statement of Mrs. Hostasch, the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, that further reform would be unnecessary until far beyond the year 2000. In doing so, ladies and gentlemen, I have remembered that their predecessor, Minister Hums, also spoke about a "century work" during which pension reform at that time would last far beyond the year 2000. [[Contradiction of the Abg. Hums.]] Of course, Minister of State, you said that! Read the logs! Even government-friendly experts say that there must be further adjustment and a very profound reform of the whole system by 1999 at the latest, in order to ensure that pensions are truly sustainable, because only about 3 percent of the planned 20% of savings are left. The remaining 17 percent remained on the track, with the remaining 17 percent the government simply fell over again. The experts also say that this system can only work if the number of employees is constantly increasing. But what, ladies and gentlemen, does reality look like? – In reality, the number of people employed does not increase continuously, but the number of unemployed and pensioners is constantly increasing due to a lack of economic and social policy in that government! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Similarly today, unemployment statistics show that in October there was 2.4% more unemployment than in the previous year, namely 219 383, to say it quite precisely. The increase in the number of unemployed from October of the previous year to October of this year was over 5 000: There were more than 5,090 unemployed, which is 2.4 percent, with this increase – and this is worrying – being more than 17 percent for the 50s, i.e., for an age group that can no longer or only be included in the work process to a very small extent, which will also cause a massive burden on our pension system. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr State Secretary! The bad thing about this pension report is not only that it is not sustainable and lasting, but, as has already been said, that it is carried out primarily on the back of the poor and the young. For example, the average pension or the average pension for officials was approximately 32 000 S, the average pension for employees was about 14 200 S and for the pensioners of the industrial economy approximately 12 300 S, with two thirds of the ASVG-pensionists – and this has already been said – having a pension of less than 10 000 S. And with the farmers, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen, the average pension is only about 7 000 S. Especially in these poorest of the poor, those with the lowest incomes, there are additional burdens. As part of this "pension reform", farmers in particular are massively disadvantaged and asked for cash. Due to the loss of the spouse's co-insurance with the ancillary farmers, young farmers are extremely disadvantaged; they receive enormous additional contribution payments. As a result, the government is bringing money from up to 70 000 people threatened with existence to budget recovery, although these people are among the weakest in our society. The government should rather start saving itself than using money with the poorest of the poor! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] As I said, In particular, farmers are badly compensated and asked for cash. Once again, agriculture will be extremely disadvantaged, although farmers have been promised by red and black in the Europe Treaty of SPÖ and ÖVP, that agriculture will be existentially secured and that there will be a VAT adjustment. As a result of this failure, agriculture loses around 1.75 billion schilling annually – that is not a sum we have invented, but a calculation of the economic research institute. That, ladies and gentlemen, would be a way to partially safeguard the livelihoods of the peasant farms – not to drive them to ruin by additional burdens! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But instead of giving the farmers the promised funds, they get only additional non-social burdens from the government. Thus, while the officials with Dohr &Co were once again at the top, this unsocial "reform" was carried out on the back of the poor, and in particular the farmers. Therefore, you cannot expect any consent from us liberals to this non-social reform either.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e13412	No one is reported in the word anymore. That concludes the debate. There is no final word from the rapporteur. We are entering the voting procedure. I ask the honourable Members to take their place. ==References====External links== Mr Dr Schmidt submitted a referral request in 911 of the Supplements Act. I would therefore like to begin by voting on this referral request and ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour to refer the draft law back to the Financial Committee in 911 of the Supplements. – This is done by the minority. The request is therefore rejected. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Where's Dr. Schmidt?]] We shall also vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 911 of the Supplements. Mr Hans Helmut Moser and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment. In addition, MEPs have tabled an additional and amendment request for Dr. Novotny, Dr. Stummvoll and Comrades. Finally, the Members of Parliament have power. Stoisits and comrades submitted an additional and amendment request. I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the supplementary and amending proposals, according to the classification of the draft law, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been agreed. The Members of Parliament Hans Helmut Moser and Comrades have tabled an amendment which refers to Articles 4 Z 1a, 2, 3 and 11b. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. I shall therefore vote on Article 4 Z 1a, 2, 3 and 11b as amended by the Committee's report. In case of your consent, I would like an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. MEPs Hans Helmut Moser and Comrades have tabled an amendment which refers to Article 4 Z 24. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done by the minority. Rejected. In addition, representatives of Dr. Novotny, Dr. Stumbling and comrades submitted an amendment which amends § 58 para. 24 in Article 4 Z 24 has the content. I shall now put to the vote on Rule 4 Z 24 as amended by the Committee's report and taking into account the amendment tabled by Mr Dr Novotny, Mr Stummvoll and Mr Comrades. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done by the majority. The request was accepted. MEPs Hans Helmut Moser and Comrades have tabled an amendment which refers to Article 4 Z 25. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done by the minority. Rejected. I shall therefore be voting on Rule 4 Z 25 as amended by the Committee's report. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. MEPs Hans Helmut Moser and Comrades have tabled an amendment which refers to Article 4 Z 26. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done by the minority. Rejected. Deputies Dr. Novotny, Dr. Stummvoll and Comrades have tabled an additional request which has the content of adding new paragraphs 10 to 12 to § 62e in Article 4 Z 26. I shall be voting on Rule 4 Z 26 as amended by the Committee's report and taking into account the additional request made by Dr Novotny, Dr. Stummvoll and Comrades and asking for a sign to be given in the event of your consent. – This is the majority. Accepted. MEPs Hans Helmut Moser and Comrades have tabled an amendment which refers to Article 5 Z 12. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. I shall immediately vote on the same provision as the Committee's report. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. Deputies Dr. Novotny, Dr. Stummvoll and Comrades have tabled an amendment to Article 9 Z 1 § 5 para. 2 C 1 refers. I shall be voting on Rule 9 Z 1 § 5 as amended by the Committee's report, taking into account the amendment tabled by Dr Novotny, Dr. Stummvoll and Comrades. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done by the majority. Accepted. Deputies Mag. Stoisits and comrades have an additional application which refers to the insertion of a new lit.c in Article 13(1) Z1, as well as an amendment concerning the deletion of the sentence. 2 in Article 13(6). In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. There is also a lack of a vote on the description of the paragraph in relation to Article 13(6). 3rd. I therefore leave immediately on Article 13 § 1 Z 1 and § 6 para. 2 as amended by the Committee's report. In the event of your consent, I would ask for a sign on this matter. – This is the majority. Accepted. The Members of Parliament, Dr Novotny, Dr. Stummvoll and Comrades have tabled an amendment which refers to the receipt of Article 15. I would ask those Members of the House who want to give their approval to Rule 15 as amended by the Committee's report, taking into account the amendment tabled by Dr Novotny, Dr. Stummvoll and Comrades, in order to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to give their consent to this sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to give their approval to the draft law at third reading too, to give an appropriate sign. – This is also the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Dr. Haider and Mr Comrades on political pension privileges. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. Finally, we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Böhacker and Mr Comrades on a comprehensive reform of remuneration and pensions in the public sector. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. The agenda is exhausted. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-05-020-XX-NRSITZ-00093_d7e13498	I would also like to say that at today's sitting, the self-employed were brought up against 619/A to 625/A. Question No 3196/J to 3241/J has also been received. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for Thursday, 6. November 1997, 9 a.m. The session will begin with a Question Time. The agenda can be found in the written communication distributed in the hall. The sitting is closed.
