ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e4361	I'll open the 66. The meeting of the National Council and welcomes all the ladies and gentlemen very warmly. The official protocols of 63. Meeting of 26. ==References====External links== He proposed that the Court should reply as follows: February 1997 has remained unanswered and undisputed in the Parliamentary Directorate. As prevented, MEPs are reported Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn, Dr. Preisinger, Dr. Ofner, Ing. Nut trees, Fink, Dkfm. Ruthofer and Elmecker. Representation of members of the Federal Government President Dr Heinz Fischer: For this meeting, the Federal Chancellor's Office issued the following communication on a resolution by the President of the Federal Government concerning the representation of members of the Federal Government: Federal Minister for Agriculture and Forestry Mag. Molterer is represented by Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein. Resolution of the President of the Federal Republic of Germany
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e4414	I will also bring the House the following by Mr. Federal Chancellor, with a letter dated 26 May. The resolution of the President of the Federal Republic of Germany on the scope of the action of Mrs Mag. Barbara Prammerzur: "Because of the species. Paragraph 77 3 B-VG I am handing over to the Federal Minister at the Federal Chancellery Mag. Barbara Prammerdie on the subject of the following matters belonging to the Federal Chancellery: 1. coordination in women's policy matters, Cases of the Equal Treatment Commission and Advocate for Equal Opportunities, Cases of the Federal Equal Treatment Commission and the Interministerial Working Group on Equal Opportunities (BGBl.Nr. 100/1993); 2. consumer policy, including consumer protection, in so far as it does not fall within the scope of the Federal Ministry of Justice, Coordination of consumer policy. This includes in particular: complaints in consumer matters, Consumer policy advisory council matters, protection against dangerous products unless they are industrial or competition matters; 3rd. Food control matters. This includes in particular: matters of transport of food, consumer products, additives, cosmetic products and articles of use; food hygiene, training, continuing and continuing training of public food control staff; 4. Veterinary matters except for matters to be dealt with by the Federal Office for Agricultural Biology. This includes in particular: matters of the transport of veterinary medicinal products, disinfectants and veterinary vaccines; price arrangements in this field, animal feed hygiene and control, animal and meat inspection matters; animal carcassing matters, continuing, continuing and continuing training of public veterinary staff; matters of the veterinarians and other veterinary persons, including the affairs of their professional representation; continuing, continuing and continuing training of veterinarians after graduation and other veterinary persons; 5. toxicity matters; 6. general matters of protection against ionising radiation; 7. general issues of genetic engineering; 8. The Abs. 1 to 7 shall not apply to personnel management and organisation tasks; 9. The Abs. 1 to 7 shall also not apply to matters reserved to the Federal Chancellor by federal constitutional law." I suggest that we also inform the House in writing of the text of this resolution. Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e4537	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: Technology support for job creation and security of Austria's economic location
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e4558	First of all, Mr Ing. Gartlehner. I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e4579	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! This current hour will be held at the request of the Social Democrats. We have therefore decided to vote on this issue because we are deeply convinced that technology policy measures in our country will in future secure Austria's economic location, help create jobs and ensure quality of life. As chairman of the Subcommittee on Technology Policy, I am of course pleased that we are discussing this issue today and that I can open this debate. As we know, research and technology policy is an important instrument for site and employment security in our country. Austria is well known to have many site advantages. In this context, I mention only social peace, the favourable taxation of enterprises in European comparison or the quality of our skilled workers and engineers. Unfortunately, however, we have to note that in recent years there has been an increasing dependence on research and development, some indicators confirming this. It is worrying if the Austrian export revenues per kilogram are below the European average, and it is also not very encouraging if the Academy of Sciences finds that, unlike in Austria, about ten years later, there is only a high-quality top-level region in the industrial sector, which is not basic or pre-productive. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] The fact that we, as a high-quality European state with a high social standard, want to preserve this quality naturally requires urgent action in the field of technology and research. There is already a trend change: The Federal Government has just recently decided to make available around 3 billion schilling from privatization proceeds for research and technology policy in Austria, in order to make an industrial and application-oriented research funding, in particular because of existing research structures, as we also have international comparisons with basic research expenditure structures. It is therefore intended to improve and support cooperation between universities and technical universities with the Austrian companies with these first billions of technology. We want to set up additional non-university research institutes decentralized in Austria, but we also want to further develop existing non-university research institutes. There are four priorities here: new materials, transport technologies, information and communication technologies as well as environmental technology. In addition, the subcommittee concerned has an important role to play. There must be a longer-term policy design in order to further improve the framework conditions for research and technology policy in Austria. In fact, we are deeply convinced that a better organisation or re-engineering of our funding policy – interministerial or internal in the ministries – must be achieved, and we note that the Austrian companies have notified the need for action in this regard. We therefore call for a further increase in the research and technology budget to reach at least the European average over the next five years, i.e. 2% of the gross domestic product. We need to equip research and technology support not only with direct resources but also with indirect funding, as the requirements, needs and possibilities of Austrian enterprises are very different. [[Complementary by the SPÖ.]] It is also important, of course, that we regularly evaluate research and technology policy, because it is also here that there can be very rapid changes to the needs. I'll get even closer to that. It is also necessary to develop the most attractive exchange models between the economy and science. Proposals by the Industrial Union – very constructive – are already in place in this direction. In the field of the internationalisation of Austrian researchers, we also need to develop programmes to re-establish the link with the world's leading technologies. We are deeply convinced that the establishment of demand-oriented measures and the orientation of social needs must be an important point of our research and technology policy, otherwise we would go beyond the market – and this should definitely be prevented. It is also essential to bring the immaterial framework for research and technology policy, for industrial policy as a whole, to a new standard in Austria. We are convinced that today there is still a great deal to be done about industrial hostility, which has widened ten or fifteen years ago in Austria, which still suffers from many farms and business settlements. I think it is best to recognize this in the debate on biotechnology. Finally, I believe that we should deal very strongly with the needs and wishes of the economy. In this subcommittee, experts from politics, economics and science have met twice, and they, as well as political representatives, have brought themselves into very high quality and competence. I am therefore deeply convinced that in this segment of research and technology policy we will soon be able to set the course of connecting to the European average. I don't think much of it when only new papers are produced. I believe that the time has now come to set up concrete activities. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e4664	In order to deliver an opinion on this subject, the Federal Minister has notified himself. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e4685	Mr President. High house! In order to ensure the economic location of Austria, to develop new opportunities for Austria's economy and thus new opportunities for people in this country, we need a whole bunch of measures. Technology policy must be integrated into this bundle of measures. But let me first give a brief outline of what has to be used as a framework. One of the key challenges, a central condition, is the provision of optimum infrastructure. I understand infrastructure in a broad sense as a sum of the institutional conditions for successful development: as a sum of training facilities in which the necessary skills can be acquired, as a sum of the built infrastructure capable of covering the transport needs as much as the communication needs. Furthermore, these are the most environmentally friendly and cost-effective solutions and the social balance of the offer. However, I also count on these infrastructural conditions the political culture, especially those in the relationship of the partners in economic life. [[Unrest in the hall.]] – I don’t have the impression that someone here is interested in this.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e4710	Ladies and gentlemen! I'll take a break for a few seconds. [[The conversations in the bank series are discontinued.]] It's all right. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e4731	High house! I just doubted whether anyone here was interested in what I was saying – and the question was whether I was bothering you. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: I'm all ears!]] The other key challenge to be overcome is to encourage people to be confident that together the challenges of dynamic economic development – more than that – can be actively and constructively addressed by a highly dynamic development of social change. There are essential tasks in the field of training, especially university training, ahead of us. The aim is to develop training content to open up universities for social and economic issues. The aim is to link scientific and research institutions with each other and, in the transition to applied technology policy, to network research institutions with customers, with users, with entrepreneurs developing marketable products and services from research results. One of Austria's weaknesses so far in these areas is the often lacking ability or willingness to connect these necessary areas. The first elements of our technology policy are as follows: On the one hand, it is a question of ensuring that the professional universities in the region in which they operate actively contribute to the transfer of their know-how to the small and medium-sized enterprises of the region concerned. The main task is to establish the communication of these teaching institutions and, in part, research institutions to companies, to find translators and interpreters capable of creating the ability to talk between the institutions of teaching and the potential customers and users of the knowledge from these educational institutions. It is also a programme that we have called post-doc program, which is intended to guarantee the transfer of know-how from universities to businesses. It is the task of addressing the task of creating dialogue between the field of science and the field of application of this scientific know-how, between science and practitioners of business everyday life. In addition, it is not only about the transfer of knowledge, technological know-how from universities to businesses, but also about keeping the risk of the application of new technologies, the risk of using money for research and development as low as possible. At the same time, this is the reason why we have or will set up a programme for scholarships for graduates of universities in small and medium-sized enterprises. However, it is also a reason for this that, for example, the annual ERP Fund programme decided yesterday by the Federal Government provides for a new focus on technology promotion and refinancing of this funding or the loans that are received through the stock exchange. This new ERP programme is also essentially concerned with the fear or restraint of small and medium-sized enterprises in relation to new technologies, their own use in the field of research and development, and also with the concern that is often to get money from the stock market. These measures should not be carried out exclusively by means of foreign financing. Finally, it focuses on the already cited weakness in the cooperation between research institutions and, in particular, between companies and research institutions or companies interested in similar products or similar technologies and working to promote and support cooperation between these institutions. We have also made sure, in the context of the re-design of an ERP fund, that these cooperations will be very well promoted in the future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] High house! Let me add a few comments on the concrete intentions in the area of technology policy and technology promotion. We intend to further promote and support the strengths of the Austrian research institutions and Austrian companies, which are already working on technology and research-oriented, within the framework of the priorities we are now planning for the allocation of the so-called technology billions. I do not believe that there is much point in dispersing the scarce resources according to the principle of foundry, but it makes a lot of sense to start where we already have Europe's or world-wide marketable developments, research institutions or product developments. We need to make sure that there is no misundertaking, which can easily happen from the green table in the planning of research and technology funding: We must not consider any "hubby" research areas of which we believe they will be interesting in the future, but rather we must build up a feedback loop that ensures that we carry out technology promotion, in particular where there is also a demand from the ready-to-pay companies for this kind of technology. What we are planning is to continue to support centres that are already doing a very good job today – to support them more strongly and to promote them, the more the demand from the companies for these services is. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I should like to point out briefly on this occasion a field in which excellent performance has already been achieved in the past and which shows that this concept is suitable for both technological development and new and future jobs. This is the example of the Automotive Centre in Graz, where, around a technology-oriented company, AVL List, around a technologically advanced technical university, namely TU Graz, and around companies already active in automotive construction, has now developed a highly research and development-intensive cluster of companies. It can be seen that the existing expertise in research and development facilities and in the companies located there is already new businesses and jobs are created there, because this is a promising location with the possibility of networking knowledge and know-how, which helps all concerned. We want to promote this concept – even if not always regionally, geographically – with two further priorities over the course of this year.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e4780	Please keep in mind the target time.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e4795	I conclude by saying: First of all, this will be the field of material-oriented research and development – also in this area Austria has a highly developed industry with sophisticated own know-how – and secondly, it is research institutions, especially at the Montanuniversity in Leoben, which meet the highest demands. What we are concerned with is to make it a virtual cluster – if you want to say so – that strengthens the position of Austria, the Austrian research institutions and companies that are already significant on the world market. The second area we are planning is the use of Telecom facilities. This is essentially about network connections and services offered through the Telecom infrastructure, combined with a research facility whose focus is on the Technical University of Vienna. - I'll close it with it.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e4830	The next speaker is Mr Novotny. All further maximum speaking times are 5 minutes. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e4852	Mr President. High house! Technology policy is undoubtedly a central area of policy – in view of the attention of the House, however, I must say: I am not quite sure that all of us in this House are aware of this. But the fascinating and difficult part of technology policy is that it is a link between economic policy on the one hand and science policy on the other. I would particularly like to take a position on this subject today from an economic and employment point of view, but I would like to suggest, on the occasion of a given occasion, that I consider it extremely important that the competences for science, research and universities be exercised by a ministry. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Dr. Niederwieser.]] A division of research from universities would really meet research at its roots. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! From the point of view of economic policy, research and development are, today technology policy is probably one of the most important location factors for a highly developed country like Austria. We know that in times of globalisation, precisely in this area, the conditions must be met so that our economy is assured of employment. In this sense, German Chancellor Klima has also declared this to be a focus of government work and, with Professor Schmidt and Director General Hochleitner, has set up two technology representatives who will report to the government by the end of May. It has already been pointed out by Mr Bundesminister One in his speech that in Austria we are pleased to have a number of research institutions and companies which are world leaders in technology policy. I do not know if you are interested, but it is perhaps not unimportant to know that we have world-leading companies in the field of material research with Plansee and VA steel; in vehicle technology, in mechanical engineering – that has already been mentioned –: List, VA-Tech, angel. In the biochemistry and pharmaceutical sector, we have the biochemistry Kundl, Immuno and, of course, a large number of small and medium-sized research companies. The first task now is to ensure and support these existing strengths accordingly. This applies, on the one hand, to cooperation with universities, on the other, and on the other hand – and this is an area that is particularly touching on us here in the house – for the whole legal environment of technology policy. This begins, for example, with questions concerning work permits for foreign researchers, goes further over legal bases – because we will probably discuss this today – within the framework of a safety-conscious, but also research-friendly genetic engineering legislation – because this is also an important prerequisite for a location – up to the duration of authorisation procedures. In general, the following applies: We need to see technology policy from the point of view of social responsibility. We have to see them as essentially an opportunity, and not always as a threat, as is unfortunately stressed by some circles here in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The second major task for us is to introduce more companies into the field of advanced technology policy, particularly in the field of small and medium-sized enterprises. An important approach to this will be an application-oriented competence centre, as already planned. Finally – and this is not unimportant – it is about giving political and psychological importance to technology policy in public opinion to the need to create a spirit of intrusion in this area in order to actually create those conditions for the opportunities and challenges of the 21st century. ==References====External links== – That’s why we did it in today’s current hour – and we wanted to send a signal for that.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e4930	The next speaker was Mr. Dr. Lukesch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e4951	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! First of all, I should like to say a word on Mr Novotny's comments. I agree with you, Mr Novotny, that science and research should really be consistent on the basis of the internal context. This is a principle I also represent. I cannot imagine dividing our universities and research apart. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Everything to go!]] However, it is also possible to think of organisational patterns other than the current distribution of competence in compliance with this principle – let us say it neutrally. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: But don't make sense!]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Each economic student learns in the first semester that Austria is a small open economy, that the special opportunities of such a small open economy lie in export and in the corresponding intensification of external trade. – This also applies to Austria. Austria owes its jobs and prosperity to about 50 percent of its participation in international competition in foreign trade. It is equally clear that a basis for export success, for economic success in this field in global competition, is the technological competitiveness of the economy. I therefore welcome the intensive debate on technology policy in Austria, in order to strengthen the technological competitiveness of our companies, especially our small and medium-sized enterprises, announced by Mr One and the Federal Government. A technology offensive – and this must be clear to us – is the prerequisite for us to actually have sustainable success in the field of the export offensive in the direction we want to strengthen the employment location, increase job security in Austria. As my colleague, Mr Gartlehner, I should like to point out that we have already taken massive steps in this direction. The three additional billions now available for science and research from the privatisation proceeds have not least been quickly implemented due to the constant pressure of the scientific and industrial speakers of the coalition parties in this House. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] The first programmes for the first billion have also been developed. I am thinking, for example, of the programme of the Minister for Economic Affairs Farnleitner to strengthen the FFF, the Fund for the Development of Research in the Industrial Economy. But we also need to make greater use of existing resources towards technology policy. That is why I welcome the intention, Mr Federal Minister, in the context of an ERP special programme in the following 20th century. At the end of the century, three billion schillings were made available specifically for this area, thus strengthening basic economic activity in the technical field for both industry and small and medium-sized enterprises. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We have to consider the following – perhaps it can fascinate a little –: Each schilling, which is also used in the research of our companies, results in eight to ten additional sales schilling – and that means securing jobs. That's how we imagine it! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] To Minister of Science Dr. A few more demands from the point of view of the People's Party's Scientific Spokesman. Federal Minister Dr. One said: Cooperation between universities and the economy must be strengthened. . I am happy about this, but we must bear in mind that basic research must not be forgotten in this emphasis on technology. We will achieve some success in the short term without corresponding research success in basic research, but we need to safeguard Austria's research and technology location in the long term. Federal Minister! They have also stressed the importance of vocational colleges as centres of applied research. I agree with you in this, but I would like to ask you to eliminate the current "bottleneck" in the re-establishment of interesting colleges. Finally, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen: Many examples have been mentioned. Austria may well compete for the better technology location. Let's take courage and optimism instead of constantly quoting the "gen-sei-be-us". - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e5024	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e5046	Mr President. Mr. Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Good morning! As always, the interest in technology policy is "violent". Mr Gartlehner has already made a long list of wishes and needs for technology policy to the Minister. I'm just asking: What has effectively prevented government officials from implementing all these things over the last 20 years? These things are not entirely new, but long-standing demands. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I think it had to be done so correctly first of all by the Semperit shock, so that one can see here, but above all the rulers realize how closely technology and research policy is linked to the economy and to the jobs. If technological development and research die, businesses slowly die, and jobs are lost. – So far, it’s really easy. And precisely because these links are so obvious, one is wondering why this government is doing so little for technology and research in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The "Salzburger Nachrichten" have been entitled in an issue – it is almost a year old: Research in emergency. For operational research, the federal government no longer spends more than for the mother cow promotion. – Dear to me Ladies and gentlemen! This should not be against the promotion of the mother cow, but research and technology policy should have earned a real importance in our country. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It would be very easy to say: I take a little money into my hands – I am now talking about the already legendary "technology billions" – and I am distributing this money as evenly as possible to all stakeholders, and that is why my technological problems have been solved. Unfortunately, it is not that easy – especially because it has been the government's last decades, one can almost say, has failed to create a technology- and innovation-friendly climate. In the settlement of highly-funded, highly-subsidized foreign companies, it was not possible to move the research and development centres to Austria as well. In the end, many companies, daughters of foreign multis, have become prolonged workbenches without a research basis and therefore, as a whole, are particularly easily transferable, so that jobs are always at risk of being lost to low-cost countries. Ladies and gentlemen! You all know this situation, but what measures have you taken? – They have created a concept; a concept – I hope you have one; [[Abg. Koppler: We are talking about the future!]] In the past, you probably have a big one – the former vice-chanc Busek says it's a "lavender-smooth". He says: I do not know the costs, but the result is extremely poor given the technological situation of Austria and the pace of change. – There are billet numbers, there are few specifics inside, and wherever it should become concrete, it is hidden by a very complicated language of content. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! What else did the Federal Chancellor do? – He has declared the technology and export offensive a chief concern and has assigned so-called consultants to the relevant ministers – others say a kind of beiwagerl as one has in school education. I would think it better to bring competent ministers to the government instead of the outside consultant, then the consultants are saved. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The fact that it is worthwhile for the consultants is obvious is that they are representatives of renowned promoters. It is necessary to clarify: It's always about "technology billions." – One is concreteized, the other are in a distant distance. And you have been trying for months to market it as a stone of the sages to solve the problem. The joy happens very quickly, when one sees that in Bavaria 37 billions of privatization proceeds have flown into the technology within two years – and the joy with the technology billions in Austria is passing away very quickly! – and this, of course, aggravates the pressure to which the Austrian economy is exposed by two sides: the technology giant Bavaria in the north and the low-cost countries in the east. – That’s not how we get rid of the red lantern, ladies and gentlemen! Our support system is too complicated. There is no aid in the market launch of high-tech products, finished products fail, the system of indirect tax-privileged support is only rudimentary, and the corresponding research and development share is little taken into account when promoting foreign investment. So, ladies and gentlemen, we will not get rid of the final light of the OECD countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e5101	The next speaker is Mr Dr Kier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e5123	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This current hour, the Liberal Group is giving us the opportunity to address a few demands to the Federal Minister present. Unfortunately, the second Federal Minister, who does not have insignificant responsibility for co-operation on these issues, is not present, but I assume that all this will be carried on carefully within the framework of the Federal Government, which is indeed a collegial body. The fact that I mention the second Federal Minister has a special reason: We are committed to a system in which we do not even make this area responsible at the first political level in one hand, but rather – we all know why – in order to preserve the proportion of funds in the field of research we seem to need at least two Federal ministers, and they must be divided into the coalition parties: the one minister from one coalition partner, the other from the other. The need to mention this in the context of technology policy gives a picture of the political access of the Federal Government to this field: Not even this field is kept free of party-political primary interests – and that is very bad. I do not want to say that the expert draft, which has been presented, is quite a paper of high reputation, of great effort and of adequate and deep expertise – but it is an expert draft. That is to say, it is a draft that brings together everything you need to make object-oriented political decisions. However, there is no political technology concept, and therefore the heading "Technology Policy Concept 1996 of the Federal Government" is partly misleading. Not that it is not a political paper – I do not want to be misunderstood here – but political decisions continue to float in space. If, even in this expert paper, which has been very reticently formulated, the statement is made that this draft has the character of a strategy paper that it is designed as a basis for the development of measures and programmes in the follow-up phase, but that the members of the Federal Government do not have the right consequence by presenting and developing politically stable and politically controllable measures and programmes for the follow-up phase, on this basis, it is simply a deficit, a sign of uncertainty. I can now tell you something that you cannot be aware of, because you were not in committee: We were presented with priority papers in the Committee by the two members of the Government. The Committee meeting was held on 19 October. Feber. As an expert in matter, I have noticed that the paper submitted by the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs was word and text similar to a paper that the same Federal Minister had distributed to the media at a press conference in December 1996. However, the legendary CA privatisation took place between December 1996 and February 1997 and the new technology billions have come to the world – they have passed by the Minister of Economic Affairs and his concept without any trace. We therefore call for the political consequences and future measures to be developed at high political level within the framework of a survey. I can inform you of a keynote of this expert paper – I hope you will understand it correctly. On page 88 it says: The organisation of the Austrian higher education sector with its current rules on service and remuneration is not suitable for new forms of research organisation. I mean, this sentence speaks for itself, and I really want to ask you: Go with the liberals who call for a profound reform of the right to serve and pay. If we do not implement this reform, Austria will remain in the field of technology and research, and we will fall back even further and experience that the universities are not a partner for technology without reform. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e5174	Next, Mrs. Ing. Langthaler. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e5195	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to come to a special area, which is particularly important to us Greens, in the field of research and modern technologies, which would have enormous importance for a small country like Austria in particular, and would like to call for fewer new concepts, rather than push and call on the ministers sitting here to do something. Let us also look at what has happened in Germany in the last two or three days, how the mood on the labour market is present and how wrong the mood there is so brusque. There has been a coal subsidy in Germany for decades, although everyone knows that this type of energy production – not only the form of promotion, but above all the use – is not only unecological, no longer contemporary, but also absolutely uneconomic. Nevertheless, for decades, for political reasons, it was not possible to implement restructuring measures that would have been less painful if they had started 30 years ago. – Today one is facing an economic, but partly social disaster. Second area – which became known yesterday –: The two largest steel companies in Germany want to merge – but not voluntarily from one side. Krupp wants to make an enemy takeover of Thyssen. A massive reduction in jobs is planned. This too is an area in which it has been known for decades that it is no longer economic in the present form that restructuring is necessary. They have simply been postponed for political reasons, and today there is also an economic and social disaster, facing a very difficult situation. What all of this will mean is that in a few years you will probably see much more clearly than today. Similar things – thank God not as drastic as in the two examples – must also be observed in Austria: There will continue to be popular technologies, which have long been neither economically nor ecologically useful, which do not bring any more labour market policy into existence. And modern technologies, already at the threshold of economic efficiency, are not being used. I brought you something again – as in every debate on technology promotion and research, environmental research, on environmental technologies, we present it to you here. [[the speaker shows some prints]] We have repeatedly pointed out in "work through the environment" the concrete investment of modern technologies in a small country such as Austria, thus creating massive jobs – whether in the field of waste, whether in the field of energy or in the field of transport, whether in the field of nature or agriculture. There are a lot of proposals – I know that you always have reservations about them when they come from the Greens. I therefore took with me a very new, up-to-date report from the OECD – not really a green organization with God – which was published three weeks ago entitled "Environmental Protection, Environmental Policies and Jobs in OECD Countries" – a highly interesting study, a comparison of all OECD countries, which shows where it has succeeded in creating jobs in Europe or in OECD countries with concrete environmental protection investments and measures. It is clear from this report - and I am saying this in particular to those who always believe that Austria is a pioneer country - that we are not a pioneer country in this area for a long time, especially the Scandinavian countries have long since overtaken us. It is clearly shown – I really am of great concern to all those dealing with new technologies – that environmental protection investments are not only ecologically worthwhile, but also an economic growth factor and, above all, create long-term jobs. Two years ago, the Wifo also published a large study on this subject – "growth market environmental technologies" – and showed how it would be possible for a small country to create jobs and to give modern technologies the opportunity to survive in a few years without any support on the market. What is the situation in Austria? – We do not even manage to make the corresponding few million schilling available in the case of measures already adopted, such as the promotion of renewable energy. There is a motion for a resolution which says that concrete investment promotions, but also tariff promotions for renewable energy, wind power, biomass and solar energy are to be carried out. To date, however, this has not been implemented. Hundreds of projects in Austria are being implemented. Finally, I would like to draw your attention to a new study: In the context of the EU, it has been found that renewable technologies can create 500 000 jobs in Europe. – That is why I ask you: Finally, put the many concepts into practice in connection with environmental technologies that exist! Thank you!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e5271	The next speaker is Mr Koppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e5292	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Government's technology offensive is an essential engine for our economy and for the future, and I hope that it will also help to preserve and create jobs. The fruits of the technology offensive will be harvested especially in the future: Although Austria is in the international forefront in terms of general economic and social indicators, there are serious deficits in the field of research, development and technology policy. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This is reflected, for example, in the fact that Austria imports disproportionately many high-tech products manufactured industrially compared with other European countries. This means that many companies are developing their innovation shifts through high-quality investment goods from outside. In the long run, this may lead to a worrying competitive and site disadvantage. That is why we welcome the Federal Government's technology offensive! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Austria would be a good ground for technology transfers on and off. This can be seen from the example of active and passive direct investment. That is why we should all welcome this technology offensive: It represents for us social democrats a major contribution to the employment offensive with the aim of full employment. I expect to see a higher value added in the Austrian economy in favour of local workers. The economic independence of Austria is necessary for the stability of our country. Technology policy makes a major contribution to this. So let us confess to this technology offensive, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. A warm welcome!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e5334	The next speaker is Mr Kampichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e5356	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! The labour market is undergoing a major change, not only across Austria, but also across Europe and the world. My previous speakers have already mentioned this in part. Thanks to automation, the use of modern technology and the computer, many jobs are currently superfluous. However, with less personnel input, a very large production increase is sometimes achieved. This is a reason for pressure on the labour market at present. Moreover, due to the removal of borders and the cost of transport, such operation is motivated to outsource. This also means pressure on the labour market. Ladies and gentlemen! The government is invited to compensate for these developments and to take action against this development through new activities. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Science is pleased to have important accents, and this has already been pointed out today. Technology policy is currently gaining very much in importance. Technological concepts modern On average, however, there is a need for a shift from financial support to technology. Dear ladies and gentlemen! The public hand, too, must offer appropriate framework conditions as a driving force and designer. However, technology policy must be implemented by innovative companies. Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been pointed out that Austria still has some deficits in this area. The research rate is even lower in international comparison. The economy is therefore called upon to become more active in this respect. Welcome, dear. Ladies and gentlemen, the initiative of Federal Minister Farnleitner, who is particularly careful to ensure that foreign groups either leave their respective research departments in Austria or even relocate here. Semperit is still in our memory as a negative example. But there is also a positive example: General Motors will establish research for the electric car with us in Austria. Dear ladies and gentlemen! An important opportunity for the future will, of course, be the targeted use of the research billions, which are now available in addition. We would like these billions to be used particularly economically and to be supported by research firms so that the results can be best implemented and implemented by the economy as quickly as possible; this too has already been mentioned today. Small and medium-sized enterprises, which have no opportunity to afford their own research departments, are to be encouraged to cooperate in the fields of universities or public research institutions in order to benefit from this cake as well. Austria itself offers optimal conditions for successful economic development. We have highly qualified scientists, many of whom are looking for their opportunities abroad today, we have highly qualified professionals, and we have a high social peace. These are crucial factors for quality companies to settle in Austria. Our reputation has also affected in that Japan is currently studying industrial processes in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to point out the positive trend in patents. I was informed by the Minister for Economic Affairs that the trend in this area is rising: Last year, 2 204 patent applications were filed and 1,777 patents registered. These are positive impulses, positive signals for the performance of our researchers and our scientists. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Our chance, our future, cannot be adapted to the wage and other levels of the cheap countries. Rather, our chance lies in the production and supply of high-quality products. We will take advantage of this opportunity in Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e5413	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Chief. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e5434	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today's present hour on the issue of research and technology development in Austria seems to me like a replica from 1986/1987. Since I was a member of this House, five ministers have been responsible for this department: Ministers Tuppy, Mock, Busek and Scholten, as well as now Federal Minister One. However, the projects are the same forever and the results are disillusioning. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Austria has become a service country in the last eleven years from a state that belonged to the world's industrial nations. I believe that the shortfall in research and technology development in recent decades has been a major factor in Austria's development from an industrial nation to a service country. But that doesn't have to surprise us either: When the Coalition Government began in 1986, the technology offensive was the project of the then Federal Government. – Today, however, we are still in the same position: At that time, the share was 1.386 percent of the gross domestic product, and today it is 1.5 percent. – This is a modest success of eleven years of government policy, technology offensive and innovation in this field! I believe that, for example, the OECD's current development should also be brought into the meeting: When I started here in Parliament, it was on average 1.8 percent, and today it is 2.2 percent. It is clear from this that we have not only been able to keep pace with the OECD section, but have even come to terms with it. This "technology billion", which is always argued with, is mainly supported by large industrial companies and not by the medium-sized and industrial economies in that country, which, due to the expansive bureaucratic instruments in this area today, eleven years after the start of the technology offensive, still has no fair access to these funding channels. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] My previous speakers have set a number of targets. I can repeat here: Plansee-works, VAT-steel, car-graz, immuno. But take your heart, Minister of State: Were these five areas not already the highlights of the Austrian technology centres in the 1980s? What's developed here? What has improved in this area? [[Abg. Koppler: Drive to Linz! Go to Donawitz!]] Mr Koppler! We were able to stand up to the situation at that time with tiredness and need! In the medical field, we have lost significantly in these eleven years. Remember You are aware that we were once world leaders in the medical and medical field! Mr Lukesch! As you look so doubtful, I can tell you: You only need to compare the figures at international points that were then awarded for publications in prestigious medical journals with the present level: 25 years ago, a publication was published in the then newly published and built "Lancet" (cf.) some one and a half worth as much as a publication in the "Wiener Medizinische Wochenblatzen" which was then viewed and introduced a long time ago. Today we are already in the country that a habilitation in Austria is assessed with ten points in the "Wiener Medizinische Wochenblatten" with one and a half points, the publication of a first author in the "Lancet". – I believe that one can no longer say more than one’s own assessment in one’s own country to demonstrate what we have failed in these areas! Federal Minister! As a liberal speaker on this subject, I ask you to: Finally, do what your predecessors promised! Make sure that those concepts that have been raised and should have been presented by the end of 1996 are finally finished! We can no longer allow ourselves to expect whether Mr Farnleitner will continue to drive through Austria with his foundry policy or whether your experts will finally implement themselves with priority funding. For me as a liberal, it is essential that the funding funds be disbursed even more than they already are, at last, that priority should be given to those areas where Austria sees its prospects for the future, and that, in those areas which we cannot handle, because our country is too small, the production of foundry can be removed. In this sense, Mr Minister, I hope that after eleven years this Federal Government will finally be able to restart.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e5489	The next speaker is Mr Helmut Peter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e5510	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! In the meantime, everyone here has understood that we can only win price competition in international markets in part and to an ever smaller extent and that we can only win quality competition. Quality competition is probably linked to research and development policy and technology promotion in Austria. The S & D Group has called its current hour "Technology promotion to create jobs and secure the economic location of Austria". Ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats! It's more than semantic. when I turn it around and mean: Technology promotion serves for the first time and primarily to safeguard Austria's economic location, because only with Austria's economic location do we finally create jobs. – This changeover is more than semantic! Mr. Federal Minister One! They have inherited a place that is now thanks to God, at least from the culture, has been liberated: Not that cultural policy is not important, but the resorts have not taken care of each other! But They still have traffic, and science and research are still located in other ministries. Why can't this new government get through climate to say clearly: We are creating a Ministry of Science, Research and Technology in which we focus conceptually on these areas, and a Ministry of Infrastructure, which of course includes transport, buildings and so on? – For this division of competence is not a good signal outwards, and the work inwards is therefore left to wish. The problem is that, obviously, there must always be a black and red technology promotion, and that there must always be the different party political criteria in fund policy, which may be of interest to the government parties, but not to the market and to the customers, but which are, above all, hindering science and research. An important focus in promoting research and development concerns basic research. We should set priorities in technology and in oriented research in my view and in the liberal opinion. If we spend more money, the ratio must be two to one, two of which should be spent on technology-oriented research. We need this research not only on the basis of universities, but also at the operational level. If we have to recognize that Austria does not have large domestic corporations – which is also very much related to the capital structure of Austria – but is mainly small and medium-sized enterprises, we must focus on the question: How can we strengthen these small and medium-sized enterprises in the field of research? How can we strengthen these plants in this respect? How can we help the many, many small, medium-sized enterprises in Austria to work more efficiently with 100, 200 or 300 employees and to strengthen them overall? Technology monitoring in Austria is not yet good enough trained. We Liberals will deal with the entire issue of the Patent Office and its rights. In this area, technology monitoring could be continued better than before. We need a new venture capital market structure. Federal Minister! You are responsible for science and research, that is true, but of course you, within the Federal Government, are also responsible for talking to the Minister of Finance and asking: How should companies raise risk capital to finance, in addition to all funding, their long-term internal research and development projects? Where is the risk capital market where it is more interesting to invest its money in new business prospects than to let 25 percent of the end-of-life taxation in government papers slumber? This is a matter that you may not see directly as yours. In reality, however, this is your task if you want to be the Minister of Research, Science and Technology of this Republic. Create the financial basis for the venture capital market, too, that there are appropriate framework conditions for achieving research and development! I believe that the question of tax treatment of research grants is still to be discussed. For does it make sense if you grant research grants to businesses and then tax them as a full yield half away? That makes the money worth half the money! Why can't you view the use of research grants at the same time as operating expenditure, which has full effect in the operation and of which half is not taxed away from the holding? [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Research and development are so important for our country so that we can win price competition, upgrade Austria's economic location and thus secure jobs and employment in this country: In this order we should see it. In doing so, we will have to define more precisely and precisely than previously target corridors for our work.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e5571	Mr Karl Oellinger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e5595	Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! It is interesting to listen here and listen to the stands. What I have missed in this debate so far was not only a clear commitment to research promotion, to technology promotion, which has always come and is expected, but also a word for technology assessment, for social impact assessment, for environmental impact assessments when new technologies are introduced. This is an area that would be interesting, because if I read in the concept of the Ministry of Science that technology policy is a 'embracing pillar of the necessary modernisation', I would like to ask the question here: What is needed, how much is needed, and what form of modernisation is needed? It's not about some modernisation. If one speaks of some modernisation, then one has actually lost sight of the objective of the necessary modernisation drawer. Is this a social question? When it comes to the design of new social relationships and the attempt to influence technology promotion through risk assessment, this structure of society does not develop even further – or is simply and simply about pumping into a billion somewhere. Finally, I say: No, it can't be. The Federal Government or the legislator must consider very carefully – I miss this consideration in both papers – where the money is to go. If, for example, I imagine that – I still believe by your ministry – Austria's nuclear fusion research is still being promoted, then I can only say: Hold it! This is the wrong area of research funding. If I say that there is still far too little investment in environmental technology, solar energy research, I would like to point out: There would be another need. I also like the approach which has not been discussed at all in today's debate, for example, that the division of these billions is not only about the use of red and black, but also about the use of genders in this country, for example, that women should also have access to research and technology development, that women also have a right to find their place here. I would like this approach, but I miss it in all the statements you have made. It would also be necessary to take account of these issues, in particular the other ways of dealing with technologies, with research and to promote something that otherwise goes down too easily. Ladies and gentlemen! In five minutes one cannot actually deal with this very extensive topic. Still a reminder [[Intrusion of the Abg. Copper]] The research billion is good and beautiful, but I remember the structural billion, Mr Koppler! You know what I mean. To this end, the legislator said: Fine and good, we are spending a billion on labour market promotion for the support of the structure. But no one has known what is to be understood. And then, not over a year, but over three years, there has been a structural billion support, which no one has known what effect it has on the structure and what structure you want to promote. If it is only about the qualification, it is about the provision of certain resources, or what was actually intentional? I now have the feeling that, even at this research billion, you will only remember that it should be allocated to a red and a black ministry, that the economy should get its billions or millions, that universities too should get a little bit, but in addition, relatively few specifics have been said by you, especially in the areas to be promoted, in the technologies to be promoted.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e5658	I don't have any further words. This means that the list of speakers is exhausted and the current hour is over. I would like to thank the Federal Minister. Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e5686	I say that according to Article 93 of the Rules of Procedure, the Green Club has requested the written question 2148/J put to the agenda before the entry into force of the agenda by the honourable Member, Mr Ing. Langthaler and comrades to the Federal Minister for Agriculture and Forestry on the release of genetically modified plants in Austria. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, this urgent question will be called at 3 p.m. . I would remind you that at today's meeting, Mr Molterer will be represented by Mr Bartenstein, Federal Minister. Request for a short debate on the answer to the question 1687/AB
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e5716	I would also like to say that, in accordance with Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure, there is a desire to hold a brief debate on the reply to Question No 1687/J by Dr Kier and others on the practice of the award of works contracts and free contracts in the field of services within the region and in the field of services subordinate to the departments by the Federal Minister for Labour, Health and Social Affairs. As the debate on the urgent question is scheduled for today's sitting, this brief debate will take place following the debate on the urgent question. Entry and allocation
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e5742	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e5893	The following submission was also received: Treaty between the Republic of Austria and Canada on Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters (577 of the Supplements). After consultation with the members of the presidential meeting, I propose, in accordance with Rule 28a of the Rules of Procedure, to refrain from assigning this subject to a committee and to place it on the agenda of one of the next plenary sessions. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. We shall therefore proceed in this way. I also announce that the eighth report of the Incompatibility Committee has been distributed to the members of the National Council. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e5927	I would like to sum up the debate on points 1 and 2, 3 to 9, 11 and 12, 13, 14, 15 and 16 and 19 to 23 of the agenda today. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. Then we'll do that. We are now going into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e5956	The President-in-Office of the Council agreed on the duration of the debates on the entire agenda. Accordingly, a block speaking time of 10 "Vienna hours" has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ 150 minutes, ÖVP 140 minutes, Free 130 minutes, Liberal Forum and Greens per 90 minutes. The National Council is also to be found on this issue. On the other hand, are there any objections? - That's not the case. This is so decided by common accord. 1. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on amendment 408/A by Mr Friedrich Verzetznitsch, ing. Leopold Maderthanerand comrades concerning a Federal Act amending the Working Time Act and the Labour Peace Act (622 of Supplements) 2. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (550 of the Supplements): The Federal Act, which amends a Karenzgeldsgesetz and the Unemployed Insurance Act 1977, the Karenzlaufungssatzgesetz, the Karenzlaufungsanwortungsgesetz, the Labour and Social Courts Act, the General Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Insurance Act, the Farm Social Insurance Act, the Works Aid Act and the Federal Law on the grant of bridging aid to former Bundesbehörden (623 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e6006	We come to points 1 and 2 of today's agenda. The debate is under one. I do not have a desire for oral reporting. This is not enough for reporting, and we are immediately coming to the list of speakers. The first speech comes from Mr Dr. Haider. Speech time: 20 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e6033	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The working world is in a tremendous change and has received a lot of faces. Accordingly, in recent years, especially since Austria's accession to the European Union, the question of the organisation of the labour market, the provisions on workers' protection has become very important in terms of working-time legislation. I see the debate that we are having today, also from the point of view that we should also try, at parliamentary level, to come to a strategy with which we do not necessarily understand what is, in other industrialized countries which are competing with us, a common version of dealing with rising unemployment and industrial disruption, particularly in the nuclear sector. What the government is asking for with the initiative proposal, Madethaner, is nothing but an understanding of where you have been watching for years. If it is true what the media report, 50 percent of Austrian workers are already working outside the current working time regulations. That is to say, one has, above all, looked away where the pressure of the respective company owners has been correspondingly large due to the number of jobs placed for the disposition. So now we are trying to understand this by amending the Working Time Act, the Labour Peace Act. It is now possible to work 50 hours a week in an eight-week calculation period, not only 40 hours a week, 48 hours a longer calculation period and no more than 40 hours per week, and there is also the possibility to take out a core that there will be ten hours of work with us again in a four-day interval. This means that this new concept of working time ultimately focuses on banishment of overtime paid. And the question arises whether it can really be the concern of a social-democratic group to redesign working time policy exclusively on the back of workers. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Headmaster.]] On works councils is not always left to take you as an example, Mr Koppler! [[New condolences with the liberals.]] They have also promised your Voestlers safe jobs – and in the end almost 50,000 have lost their jobs. [[Abg. Koppler: But secure the location!]] Mr Koppler! [[Abg. Koppler: If it had gone after you, it wouldn't have been!]] Location security is good, "Location security" has also been operated at Semperit – but for the price that there are 1,000 people less busy there. That is the truth about your employment policy! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Koppler: If it had happened after you, the businesses would have locked up!]] Now comes the next step: First, you are threatening jobs, and now you are saying: Overtime of 10 billion schillings, which are done in Austria – my colleague, you can then speak – is now no longer inside. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Novotny]] This means a loss of income of 10 billion schilling for workers – and that at a time when you want to negotiate behind closed doors on an increase in political income. That's the reality! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You have to imagine: 10 billion schilling, 10,000 million schilling income loss for Austrian workers! The Socialist Group has distributed a leaflet in 1995 in the elections, which reads as follows: Now a Halali for employees – already for entrepreneurs. Deregulation of working time! Any availability of workers is threatening! Renewal of daily normal working time – this means loss of income due to the loss of overtime supplements. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Novotny]] That's what the Social Democratic Party said. Or: The removal of overtime tax. That means massive wage losses. Now it's all about the whole thing. Let's stop the conservative turn, it's called there. – Today You're this conservative turn, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Call to the liberals:Pfui!]] A few days ago, a book was published by the union. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Headmaster.]] Yeah, I'm just quoting you, your leaflet I quote, your union brochures I quote. The President of the Private Trade Union, who is known to you, publishes a book: "Stolen." It was published a few days ago, and I quote: In my opinion, economic policy urgently requires a change of course – not wage reduction, social reduction, lengthening of working time and tax relief in areas, but a reduction in working time and a redistribution of work to a growing number of employees. It is not income reduction, but income increase, especially in those groups that have unsatisfied consumption needs. - Quote. But today you are doing exactly the opposite, ladies and gentlemen, because less protection provisions and less income... [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: This is a twist!]] [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: You don't understand!]] Mr Novotny! I know you're not affected, you've been getting two incomes for a long time, and you didn't know you weren't allowed to do that anymore, we know that. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Mr. Haider! Are you proud to be a businessman?]] Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Are you still proud to be a businessman?]] The small primitive Marxism, which is repeatedly prolonged here, is in reality a hard-hit capitalism in which the little people are taken into the pockets. There they are comrades who will implement these laws today. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Man has become a cost factor for you. "Study," writes a trade unionist; man is nothing more valid. Of course, in the pragmatized area, colleague Novotny – you are pragmatic – nothing happens to you. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Are you proud to be a businessman? What about your businesses?]] You have a secure workplace. They are also excluded from flexible working hours, no problem, you are quite well. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] I'll invite you to the woodshaking. You once sweat in your life while working so you know what work means. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: But you only sweat at the marathon!]] Ladies and gentlemen! No jobs are created, so we say freedom of movement: If there are flexible working hours, then there must be a second leg, and this second leg is to carry out a wage tax reduction now and to the workers who are now losing. to ensure more of the security of income. That's quite logical! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Since 1988 there has been no wage tax adjustment. In this year's wage tax revenue has increased from 88 billion to 190 billion schillings in this year, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group! It is no longer a question of a wage tax adjustment for trade unionists, it is only a matter of getting rid of workers' protection regulations, introducing flexible working hours, but the wages are still strained. We say: If we make flexible working hours, we need a wage tax reduction, ladies and gentlemen. That would actually correspond to your intention, Mr President of the Council! One can not only talk about creating just wages, but also about making appropriate adjustments. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: At the expense of the state!]] Who's meeting today? – I know why you are so nervous because we caught you in a case of sin, in a case of a case of sin against the little people, in case of a fall of sin against your clientele, in case of a fall of sin, which leads to trade union solidarity. They give up workers' rights and at the same time accept income losses. My dear friend, this is certainly a completely wrong policy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Who's meeting today? – I quote now Professor Lehner from the Economic Research Institute –: Those who have between 12,000 and 25,000 S of income are those who will pay for it. But you sit here and say, Unfortunately, there's nothing we can do about it. This is the new anti-employee climate that is now being fully broken through under this government. First, Mr Klima's savings package. Who hit it? – The families, the pensioners, the working mothers, who also have children to care for. After that, the work contract came, with income losses. Now you have made a further 5 percent reduction in overtime at the executive officials. I don't know how it works. Now this flexible working time model with simultaneous loss of income. They want to delete the co-insurance of family members. Mr Novotny! Let's talk about these things. They want to freeze the compensation for apprentices, and this is what this coalition government has already negotiated. You want a wage dumping, and you have over many years accepted a wage dumping due to an unbridled, completely irrelevant and unfoundable foreign immigration. Now you are only scratching the curve because you have created more jobs for foreigners and fewer jobs for Austrians since 1995. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Now the euro is added to that which is also quoted in the trade union book – the "poor" trade union book; I am glad that this is a "failness" – namely the Institute for Economic Social Research, London, Mr. Collaborator "Vulnerance". It says that the introduction of the euro from the point of view of this institution, Mr Cot, will endanger 1 million jobs. That's your policy! They say without If and But yes to this euro! – This is the next blow for employees in Austria. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You forget that this whole concept, from which you are based – flexible working hours without simultaneous wage tax adjustment, opening up to the euro and risk of more unemployment, as is stated in the trade union's "insanity" book – which is only in the "insanity" book of the trade union! Forget it! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Novotny.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: He didn't read that!]] Mr Novotny! They forget that in the last five years since Maastricht, unemployment in the EU has increased from 13 million to 18 million people; with the hidden unemployment 20 million. – This is your policy, which you carry without if and but. I'm "gratulating" you! – Workers stay on the track. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We are therefore telling you that we in Parliament will be working for flexible working hours if you are willing to make a reasonable, tangible wage tax adjustment for those in employment under and middle incomes at the same time. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Novotny.]] - Who is to pay for this, Mr. Collegue? – Give up your privileges, make order in relation to waste in this country! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Novotny is already sniffing around 23 billion of the Oesterreichische National Bank, which he wants to keep workers away from. Give them to the workers and make a reasonable tax reform, then the workers and employees in Austria have at least some of it! [[New condolences with the liberals.]] I can tell you one thing today: If one calculates what the employees in the businesses will lose through the introduction of flexible working hours, then it comes out that for example someone in the construction industry – let's take the company Illbau – who earned 16 000 S, today goes home with 12 000 S and 13 000 S, that a construction police who earned 25 000 S – yes, you say that's "fucky" because you don't know how people really live! – who has earned 25 000 S, must go home with about 17 000 S, 18 000 S. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Fucking stupid!]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: That's not true at all!]] This is what I am writing to you in the main book, namely that you have failed to see how the income situation of employees in Austria is getting worse, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] In fact, you have no arguments as to why you should not at the same time make a tax reduction for the lower and medium income areas. They say we don't have any money. – Yesterday we read in the newspapers and heard in the news that agreements take place on public orders, in billions. - Then the government says: We don't have any money. We also know that Mr Klima as Federal Chancellor continues to maintain the insanity project of the Semmering Base Tunnel with 3 billion schilling without creating jobs there. [[Abg. Parnigoni: This is also a stupid thing you say!]] Even Mr. Häupl has already said: Let's hit this crazy Semmering base tunnel! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] – You are simply bad at it today, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Read in your "insanity" trade union book, as the colleague said. Read this, there's a lot in it! Then you have a central secretary, Mr Rudas, who now wants to abolish Sunday as a work-free day. This is a "super party" that is there when it comes to employee interests! The new kindness of your Federal Chancellor has become the freezing smile of a vampire that exploits the workers and takes the "little man" into the bag. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Now you've made a Sunday rest initiative. The rest of the Sunday, so it's called, is now lifted. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] The Sunday rest is lifted. Now, because a debate has taken place, they become nervous at once. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sophie Bauer.]] – No, I don’t twist the facts, I’m quoting the ORF, so you might have a little joy with me, Mrs. Colleague in green! Last night, Mr. Federal Chancellor Klima said: One thing you have to say stone and clear: This was a wish of the two social partners to establish a Sunday work scheme here. So if you want to know if the SPÖ is against an extension of Sunday work, I'll tell you stone and clear: no. – So the SPÖ is against preventing the extension of Sunday work. – If you want to know if the SPÖ is against an extension of the Sunday work, I will tell you stone and clear: no. – So he is for an extension of Sunday work! A very interesting statement! Mrs. Colleague! Mr Klima said this yesterday in the ORF. That's not mine. I'm just quoting him. You can check it out, and you can also read it in this "insanity" book of the union so that things are clear. You have shown that you are in fact only concerned with finding a solution in Sunday work. They say: Let's do this with collective agreement, because then, when Philips company comes and says she wants to work for seven days, we can't stand the pressure, and let's get seven days of work done! – But if a small and medium-sized entrepreneur says he wants to use his machines around the clock, you say: No, you're not that important, there's no such thing. - That's the background! Now you have been pressured by the public, now you are going to be nervous, now you are bringing in a motion for a resolution. They are changing the protection provisions for Sunday work today, but at the same time they are introducing a motion for a resolution that you do not really want what you decide today. This is a very interesting legislation! In this new motion for a resolution: "The exceptions provided for under the Labour Peace Act are therefore dealt with in a restrictive manner in the sense of the declaration made by the social partners." If you manage it in any way restrictively, why do you change the law today? Who prevents you from withdrawing this? Who prevents you, please? Now you change the law and at the same time explain in a motion for a resolution – Mr Kostelka says that motions for resolutions are only paper, they do not have anything at all, have no binding effect; I can remind you that, when a decision was taken jointly with the EIA on CA, it was said that motions for resolutions were not binding – that you undertake to do so in a restrictive manner. If you do not want to harm Sunday work, if you realize that there is something like an attempt to make it possible for people to live together, I would recommend, Mr Vergebnissch: Be manly, do not wander around with half of your motions for resolutions, but simply withdraw your legislative initiative and leave the state as it is! Then you are credible, otherwise you are not credible for us! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That's what we want to teach you. You're going a wrong way! They flexibilise working time and risk loss of income for employees. They are going a way into the euro, from which you today confirm the Wifo and the "poor" trade union book, that then only national policy remains limited to a wage reduction. Wage reduction policy is what remains. As far as Sunday is concerned, they are now taking a course in the working time system, which ultimately also leads to a wrong development. They say: In fact, we don't want to attack Sunday, but we're going to open it up so that we can be made prolific to the famous company Philips, which has already directed us. – Away with all investments in Austria if we are not allowed to work for seven days. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] Mrs. Colleague! Your problem is not, you're very secure. But it is the problem of working mothers who have to sit at home alone and live with 9 000 s, which you still have to take away. I would like to write that to you in your master book, so to speak, if in your excitement you have the tendency to lend me your ear.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e6452	The next speaker is Mr Deputy. Ladies and gentlemen! Order calls for the word "poorness" have been yanked. That was a call from the SPÖ series. Unfortunately, I have not heard what Members said that. If it is desired, I will examine, on the basis of the Minutes, which Members will give a call for an order for the word "failness". [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I do not wish for any condolences because this is not necessary if we are to have an objective Presidency. [[Abg. May. Stadler: We welcome this!]] Please, Mr President of the Council.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e6487	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I listened very attentively to Mr Haider, and it speaks for his flexibility when he sees things differently within a few weeks. I actually see this as a positive approach. If he still offers SPÖ a few weeks ago, together with her, to decide on this work-time flexibility programme in Parliament, if we distance ourselves from the workers' protection provisions – quite specifically quoted from FPÖ broadcasts a few weeks ago – then I already see very large flexibility which can be continued. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Tax reform is in there!]] Where did the statement by Mr Haider come from, who asked in Donawitz for the steelworks to be closed? – We also remember, of course. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] – I can also refer to current things. FPÖ representatives, for example, took part in the Chamber of Labour on 21 January. In November 1996, a KV provision was voted against, thus ensuring workers' flexibility in working time. It is clear what the FPÖ means by flexibility, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Reichhold.]] It is also very obvious that if today's claim is raised again, the flexibility of working time will be removed from the entire overtime allowance. Ladies and gentlemen! It is constantly being put into space, which would drop 10 billion, and if one introduces working time flexibility, there will be no overtime supplements at all. – The workers will be able to observe in a few days that they will continue to receive their overtime supplements and will not lose them, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What we have been experiencing here for a long time, for more than a decade, is a very varied story about working time. As the trade unions are accused of stubbornness, trade unions are accused of rigidity, as Mr Prinzhorn is calling for working time arrangements to be carried out exclusively in the establishments. I do not propose this to Mr Prinzhorn, but we know examples of management going to the works council and saying: either flexibility of working time or dismissal. – I believe that the path of flexibilization is only better protection through the collective treaty than such an idea, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What we have done with working time flexibility is not a disregard for the interests of workers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meisinger.]] There is no "wild growth" as it was announced a few days before the agreement by the Chamber of Commerce – exclusively through the operating agreement, that is gone. Now collective agreements can be negotiated, collective agreements also with your participation. For example, collective agreements can be fixed: in the case of flexible working time reduction or – Mr Nuremberger will continue to do so – time balances or savings over several years to achieve a larger leisure block. This flexibility of working time is not a one-way road, but it would have become if the economy had survived parts of the ÖVP. I believe that this is a correct approach to which we have finally come together. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This draft is in line with the needs of many sides, including workers. I am firmly convinced that our common approach will not hinder the interests of workers by means of collective agreements. It is also not unknown to me that the question of flexibilization and, above all, the question of the rest of Sunday is a matter of public debate. I would just like to see the same public pressure in relation to the demands of the Chamber of Commerce if, for example, it called on the press to delete holidays as yesterday. I would like to see this as the same excitement as it is in the case of Sunday rest. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The union is the only organization that is against such steps. I would like to see church, FPÖ, ÖVP, whoever it is, against the practice of the national leaders when it comes to explaining whole regions as tourist regions in order to avoid shop opening times. These are the approaches to what it's all about. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! What are we doing? [[Abg. May. Stadler: What kind of freeman do you mean now?]] – I said I wanted the FPÖ support. [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is your coalition partner! You're sitting with those in the coalition!]] - Screams Not only because of Sunday in public, but they scream You, too, because of this regulation in the tourist regions, will have another debate! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If we re-establish a regulation for Sunday work today, this is a qualitative improvement. We must not pass by reality! How many businesses start and say they want to work technologically over the weekend? – The trade unions have no opportunity to object or take other means. There is smooth blackmail! That is why I believe that this new regulation is very likely to take account of the interests of workers, and the collective agreement is therefore different. In addition to the exceptions in the areas of health, transport, service, agriculture, but also religion, this measure, which is proposed here today, makes it clear and clear that the collective agreement can act as a safeguard measure. By means of this collective agreement, for example, we can also make a time-limit of approval so that we can stop extortion attempts at international undertakings. I will be following with great interest how you will be put to practice on a motion for a resolution and on the following – all of us sitting here in the House – when it comes to Sunday work under certain rules. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You just don't have to decide the law!]] Mr Haider! They say we don't have to decide the law. What is it then? – Let us also, as it is, that businesses start and say, for technology-related reasons, we need Sunday work – without participation. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Let it as it is!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: So you want to open it!]] Now something like this can only take place with participation – and otherwise not, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would therefore like to put to the conclusion of my speech the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] With this resolution you can assume - I have nothing at all with statements also within your own group, which want to question Sunday, on the hat, I say clearly and clearly here - that social democracy will, above all, also ensure that the trade unions do not become everyday Sundays.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e6691	The application shall bear six signatures, shall be filed properly and shall be negotiated. The next speaker is Mr Dr Kier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e6716	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The excitement that now prevails here seems inappropriate to me. I mean, you should try to look at the problem that was put at the centre, namely, § 12a, once in a while and with calmness. The fact that the whole thing is moving in an overall law where, from a liberal point of view, we have some criticism – my colleague Helmut Peter will also take the floor – is another chapter because we believe that the content is, in principle, voting, but the rules do not comply with current standards. I now turn very consciously, because it appears to be symbolic, political, to the § 12a of this request. I would just like to put it out of the question that I believe that no one in this House deserves the accusation that he does not represent any reasonable concern. One can argue about the way in which concerns are represented, but a priority to suggest to someone that on a question such as this one has no fair concern, I think I am unbearable. I would like to point this out, because even in the case of criticism, one must pay attention to the human dignity of the criticized. You can say it's quite wrong, it's going in the wrong direction, you're doing something we can't accept, you're doing this and that, we're against it, we have a majority behind us or we're gonna find one. However, it must not be assumed that evil intention is at stake if one seeks to find frameworks for the regulation of working hours which allow more mobility, and which do not in any way take responsibility from the system, because what is planned delegated responsibility in the specific case to the level of the collective contractual partners. Of course, it is still possible to ask what conditions this will take place. But to do from it the "Abstinence of Sunday" I can't understand that. Sunday has several elements: It is the day on which no court hearings may take place, it is the day on which no cargo may be delivered, and it carries many, many other elements. He is a cultural feature of our society. The seven-day week has not happened by chance on the drawing board, it is a quarter of the lunar month, and since human thought we have lived in such a time rhythm. He's restructuring our time. But I cannot see that this law would be oriented towards destroying this time structure, but it is – perhaps not quite successful, I already admit – an attempt to make the time structure viable, i.e. to combine social, cultural, religious and other concerns with the needs of the overall survival of a society. I believe that the need for a society to maintain itself is both a social policy and an economic policy, simply a human concern. And this is a higher honor of popular demands and of theatrically built-up, black or red – whatever you want in this particular case – ghosts painted on the wall are pushed into the background, and the real problem that we have, namely that we need gentle and liveable forms of flexibilization that are not leading to the exploitation of people, which disappears completely behind the horizon. I therefore believe that this excitement is inappropriate. The alliances that have formed themselves there are not sacred – allow me this expression – but rather a word is missing; and in order not to call for an order, I leave it away. These alliances are not sacred. They're cheap, they're effective. And that is what I am saying, although during this discussion a general vicar was sitting down, which I really appreciate personally. He wouldn't have needed that, he has other ways to articulate himself. I would like to recall the Green Group's request that Mr Oellinger put into the Committee's deliberations: May §12a Abs. 1 to change the fact that, if it appears technologically necessary, the collective contractual partners should also be authorized to approve derogations. The Member of the Greens, therefore, still knew in the Committee that it would be useful to grant exceptions to the parties to the collective agreement for technological reasons. Today or in the last days, in the course of a trend change, the whole of § 12a is to be eliminated, although he has not gone too far in the Committee meeting in the understanding of Mr Oellinger. The proposal for a debate here does not refer to technological reasons. The technological reasons are also regulated by the Minister in the way of the regulation. Therefore, if it is not a Minister's regulation, but if it can be the collective contractual partners, it is always preferable to me, because that is closer to the problem, perhaps not necessarily faster – but perhaps faster –, at least, much more problem-oriented than if it had to be done via an administrative procedure, i.e. a regulation that, in other words, would hopefully mean anything else. I prefer the flexibility of the collective agreement. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats therefore tabled an amendment which reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] This is a synthesis – I give it to the public – of the request of the government groups for what the Committee on Oillinger has yet to know; now, it seems, he has forgotten it. I believe that this should be a compatible variant. I believe that if everyone stands up to what they say, where not so many listen, if they would repeat that too, where everyone listens and the public is in space, then the right must be majority. I also voted in favour of this request by Mr Oellinger in committee, because it seemed very constructive to me. That is why I am very disappointed that the Green Group in particular has apparently left its own basic values. Suddenly, a technical pressure to loosen human rights was recognized. I'm telling you, it's actually reasonable, just: I do not understand why this paradigm change is now coming, why it is now necessary to remove all of § 12a, where a green Member himself would have been subject to the technique. And now he does not even want to let human reasons apply, because the defence of disproportionate economic disadvantages and the safeguarding of employment are human reasons for an exception, these are the humane exceptions. That is why we ask the honourable Members of this House, this amendment, which may be a contribution to this very narrow discussion, to give their assent. There are exceptions now, we are living in a society in which many things are simply no different than 24 hours a day and 365 days a year; the infrastructure in traffic, for example, the health care, the security – I am not counting it all. According to the previous speakers' speeches, we obviously have a sense here that the police are a second-class man, if he is patrolling at night, that the railwayman driving around midnight is obviously a pariah that one must not protect, and that the nurses who serve in the night and the doctor who does emergency work are people who are obviously not covered by the protection needs of the "saints" who have spoken here today. I'll tell you: They are equally vulnerable, so there are very accompanying conditions for these people. This is partly due in payment, partly in other elements. Exactly the same can be done anywhere where exceptions are created. That is why I would like to ask you not to misuse workers' rights as an argument in order to catch up with short-term, popular effects. For this reason, Sunday is really too important for cultural reasons as being used to be hypocrites. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e6824	For business treatment, Mr Mag. Stadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e6845	Mr President. Article 52 of our Federal Constitution provides that the National Council may express its wishes regarding the exercise of execution by means of motions for resolutions and resolutions. The motion for a resolution tabled by Parliament, which is currently under discussion, with no single sentence, represents a wish for execution, but has the content of a committee, because it determines for the National Council what the National Council is supposed to decide itself as a wish. No single sentence shall be expressed in which the wish to exercise enforcement is expressed, and in particular the Federal Government cannot be identified as the addressee of the text of a committee, which has been titled a "solution request" and which is not submitted in accordance with the rules of procedure. I therefore ask you not to allow this motion for a resolution within the meaning of the Rules of Procedure for the debate to continue.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e6876	Deputies! I have read this motion for a resolution. I also asked myself whether the character of a resolution is clearly enough. However, I remember about half a dozen motions for resolutions, for example those on political taxation, when the National Council chose the practice of making observations or choosing the wording, the National Council assumes that this or that may be the case. I have not seen any reason to put in place a more stringent scale in this case than in other applications. If it is desired, we can discuss this long-term practice of the National Council in its resolutions, which, however, seems to me to be constitutionally covered, once in the presidential session. Then: President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). – That was the reason I made the statement. The request is proper for negotiation, and I remain with this statement. Mr Kier's amendment has also been properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Dr. Stummful. Voluntary time limit: 12 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e6905	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am very grateful to my previous speaker, who is just leaving the hall. He has overcome by his speech the excitement that arose from the first contribution to the debate a little bit and brought it back into the hall. Mr Kier, thank you very much! Ladies and gentlemen! One should really have this discussion here in peace and reality, it is a law that, from our point of view, brings the greatest modernisation shift in working time legislation for many years. This law will understand something that other European countries have already done in recent years, namely to introduce more flexible regulations, to create more scope. This law on working time is not in accordance with the general principle of law: It is all allowed, which is not forbidden! It is a law that has reversed the general principle of law: It is all forbidden, which is not expressly permitted. To be honest, I am very glad that a certain amount of ventilation, certain spaces are now being created and that, after twelve years of negotiations, this far-reaching law is now in place for decision-making. Ladies and gentlemen! I have therefore said "after twelve years" because in 1985 – it was still, Mrs Minister, your predecessor, Social Minister Dallinger, who was responsible for this place – the Austrian Chamber of Commerce made very detailed proposals on how the law of working time should be made more flexible and liberal. I believe that this law will enable us today to set the course that has been taken worldwide and also in the most important industrialised countries of Europe, namely to create opportunities for more flexible design in terms of the global challenges of the economy. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] I say quite frankly to you: I also consider the new law to be much more honest than the previous law, and therefore more honest, because – we all know that – what has been agreed in the practice of businesses in recent years – in agreement between companies, works councils and employees – was very often beyond the law – talker legem – not from Jux and Tollery, but from the need to secure jobs in hard competition to which we are exposed. Ladies and gentlemen! In this respect, it is much more honest for me if the legislator understands a development which has gone a long way in economic practice in recent years. It means more honesty in working time policy and working time. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The key word was honesty for me now. Let me take up the key word of honesty to the discussion on Sunday work. Ladies and gentlemen! Especially respect for the Lord's day, with all confession to the fundamental values of our society: Let us take this discussion about Sunday's work a little more honest, a little less hypocritical and also a little less selfish! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Let's take her a little less selfish! – What do I mean by that? – Each of us – I don’t take anyone out – want to have when he is hungry on Sunday, that a cook is available in the inn, that a waiter serves him. Anyone who wants to drive from the town of A to the town of B on Sunday is glad that a tramwayer is there, a railer is there, a plane is flying, a pilot is working and so on. Each of us who suffers on Sunday wants a doctor to be at his disposal. Of course, each of us who attends a service on Sunday wants the priest to read the Mass. Ladies and gentlemen! Let's be a little less selfish. We think above all of those in the workers' sector who often get jobs only by working on Sunday. Many farms can choose a location only according to the principle: Can work there all the time, yes or no? Let me say the following very clearly: I prefer it, it's working on Sunday than it's not working all week because the jobs are not available. – Ladies and gentlemen! That is the economic reality today! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Let me just say something: The legislator transfers a large amount of responsibility to the collective contractual partners. There should be one here in this House and the social partners should prove that they have not acted with a high degree of responsibility in this area over the last 50 years. Ladies and gentlemen! Who dares say: I do not trust the responsibility of the social partners.Unknown term type: "%s".? - I don't think anyone can say that in this house. I therefore believe it is very wise by the legislator that the social partners, the collective contractors, can conclude contracts under very restrictive conditions, provided that economic damage is prevented and jobs are to be secured. Who dares to say, on the basis of this restrictive condition, that Sunday work does not generally introduce, but only very specific, very restrictively, that: We don't want to work on Sunday, and people shouldn't have a job!? – Ladies and gentlemen! Whoever wants to have this should go out and say this. But let me also say the following: This law, which we are adopting today, is a good thing for me, as one that is active in the social partners, because the negotiations – especially those of the last few weeks – have shown that the social partners still have problem-solving skills. I'd like to admit: We have had different positions in the matter of collective agreement alone or operating agreement. However, I am very glad that we have also found the way out, namely the solution to a conciliation procedure, which ultimately brings responsibility back to the social partners. I believe that both the government and this House are probably not so unhappy if the social partners take on this responsibility, as has often been the case over the past 50 years, that some hot potatoes have been left to the social partners for the solution of the problem. We acknowledge that we are willing to bring in this problem-solving competence as well. On the question, which is constantly being cut: Who actually benefits from flexible working time? Is it really not only useful for the farms? – Ladies and gentlemen! Let's get rid of this small-cared caster thinking: On the one hand, the employers, on the other, are the employees. I believe that flexible working time is a very good proof that employers and employees are sitting in a boat that it benefits both. Who can use it if a farm is competitive when jobs are secured? [[Abg. Dolinschek: The Shadow Economy!]] This benefits workers and businesses. – Mr Colleague! Do not make demagogic calls, acknowledge the priority of jobs! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It also benefits workers because the possibilities we now afford with this law also allow for longer, connected blocks of leisure. So let us separate ourselves from this obsolete philosophy: here the employers, there the workers. We're in a boat. Both are required. The competition is tough as never before. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] I am glad that today we are adopting a law which will help to strengthen the economic location of Austria and thus make it easier to secure jobs in the next few years than without this law.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e6982	Mr Oellinger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e7003	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is not by chance that we discuss the issue of "enhancement of Sunday work" within the framework of a legislation dealing with the flexibility of working hours. Whoever goes here and claims it is not about a deterioration in terms of the rest of the Sunday, but – on the contrary – for an intensification, he knows very well that he speaks against his own insight and against this law here. The flexibilization is simple and simple – and you have said that very well – to extend working hours. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: safeguarding jobs!]] In principle, it is about flexibilising labour markets across Europe, where we now in Austria do not want to set a framework either. In the context of this debate on the flexibility of labour markets, the abolition of night work regulations, the abolition of holiday provisions, the restriction of Sunday rest provisions, the extension of working hours and the extension of overtime performance without paying overtime costs. The question must therefore be allowed: Does the economy serve man, or does man serve the economy? This question, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, must also be dealt with and answered. But the answer you give to it is wrong! It must not be possible for any time and cultural measure, any cultural, religious and social tradition to be lost in the debate on the flexibility of working hours and labour markets. That's exactly the case! [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: This is not happening!]] I would just like to remind you, Mr President, that in Austria today we are dealing with the following overtime situation: If the amount of overtime done a few years ago was still at 20 million per year, it has now increased significantly to 1 million overtime per week! Calculate this to a year: Regardless of whether or not the holiday period is calculated, today we hold 40 to 50 million overtime per year. Within a few years, the overall amount of overtime has doubled! [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: These will be less through flexibilization! That is why we need flexibility! Flexibility means overtime reduction, Mr. Cot.]] What you achieve with these working time flexibilization measures is just re-baptizing overtime, which were previously paid with supplements, in additional hours, which are no longer paid with supplements. This is the particular problem in this flexibility measure. It is not a measure to reduce overtime. I can give you the numbers: In particular, in the area of workers working from 0 to about 30 hours a week, the increase in the number of additional work, the extent of working time that goes beyond the normal working time, is highest. It is the part-time workers who already have the highest increase in overtime – not on paid overtime; in fact, this is a wrong concept – to have to be seen at multi-time. In this area, the problem begins, as you do not offer any protection at all with the working time flexibility measures adopted by this law. On the contrary! The opportunities to do more work in this area will be extended, especially for those professional groups and the workers of those sectors which are already under the strongest pressure and which, because a lower level of daily working time has been agreed, cannot avoid this pressure unless they risk their work. Ladies and gentlemen! It is about the availability of all sides. I know that it is difficult not only for employees but also for companies to say no in this situation. This is difficult for companies, for example, if they are dependent as suppliers of large corporations on the award of a contract to them. But it's about the question: Where does this country stand? Where are we? – And with this I come to the topic of Sunday work, the real issue of this debate. Ladies and gentlemen! One thing is clear: On Sunday work in Austria and the exceptions to it have so far been traded under the table by the social partners, under the motto: Just don't talk about it, we're already doing it, while in Germany, Mr Nürnberger, for example, in the field of IG Metall resistance to the expansion of Sunday work in a company that also has a production facility in Austria. It was clearly stated: We can't do this! Production has then taken place in Austria, where the trade union has very probably agreed to allow this Sunday work to take place. There are also other examples, not only those of this group with a production facility in Austria, in a southern federal country where we can see – in this respect I also want to reply to Mr Kier – that the social partners have so far been included in all derogations. There has been no extension of Sunday work, which did not include the social partners. I mention the example of Suzuki. – That is not true, Mr Vergestnich! [[Abg. Versatile: Opinion! No consent and rejection possible!]] I mention the example of Suzuki. There was a farm, a textile spinning plant, which explained from the outset: We only do this if we can work around the clock seven days a week. We need this for technological reasons. [[Abg. Controversy: All are running and have said: We want it!]] Finally, the trade union has also agreed with the reason that it is necessary to make an exception for technological reasons. However, it was later found that the technological reasons for the operation had only been suggested and that it would have been possible to restrict the round-the-clock shift operation in this plant, or to restrict production to the five-day week. In this case, the trade union and the business side were indisputably involved. [[Abg. Versatile: Opinion!]] I wonder, however, what is being changed by this new procedure. [[Intrusion of the Abg. I don't know.]] Nothing will be changed at all, Mr Vergestnitsch! There are still the exceptions. In all these exceptional cases, the social partners must at least listen to § 12. And so far no exception has been decided if the trade union has not agreed; at least none is known to me. [[Further call of the Abg. I don't know.]] There are still exceptions for technology policy reasons or for the particular reasons set out in § 12. Furthermore, there are now additional exceptions to be approved for economic and employment reasons. It is therefore not an intensification, but clearly an extension of the exceptions – we do not need to discuss it anymore. On the basis of the debate over the last few days, especially the fog bombs that have been thrown by the Social Democratic side, I ask: Is this a better way of dealing with better knowledge? And I have to say: Obviously it is. Either the ladies and gentlemen, who have spoken in the last few days and have claimed that it is an intensification, the law not – then they should not vote on it today; you, Mr Guggenberger, too – or they know very well the rules, but then they can no longer say that it is an intensification of the exceptions to Sunday work. It is of course an extension of the ad infinitum exceptions. To confirm this, I only need to look at the relevant comments from the economic side. We have been called on several times today to discuss this issue not emotionally but objectively. Mr Martin Mayr, Head of the Social Policy Department of the Federal Chamber of Commerce, said that the discussion should be conducted in a factual manner, and said in this sense: In view of increased competitive conditions and new methods of production, it can be expected that in future the level of work on weekends will increase. This seems to have been recognised by the government parties and the ÖGB, because the recent agreement also contains the important point that the collective contractual partners can in future also allow work on the weekend. This extremely reasonable measure serves to safeguard jobs much more than emotion-laden political spectacles. What's that supposed to mean? – Of course, it is about extending Sunday work, of course this is the debate. And, of course, the economy expects that the extension of Sunday work will be taken into account. If the trade union party claims that the collective agreement provides an adequate level of protection to prevent this, I remember the following: The trade union was obviously not strong enough in the past when it came to exceptions for individual businesses; it did not cry out in public, but always and under all conditions, even though it knew that the sister union in Germany did not want these exceptions. Austria has always and always been ready to cope with these exceptions. – Siemens. Ladies and gentlemen! I think we should look at this more seriously, and I can only say: This regulation sets out a trend which clearly leads to the subjugation of Sunday, holiday rest and weekend rest economic premise and economic priorities. [[Abg. Controversy: What if we didn't change anything?]] Of course, that's what you're asking for. I know that there is also this debate on Sunday work in other countries. The question is whether to take them into account with an axe and try to take these conditions into account, or whether one also has a debate on the importance of days off, Sundays and weekend rest. I have so far missed this debate from you, ladies and gentlemen from the Socialist Group. [[Abg. Verbatim: Reading!]] It has only been said – just as it has been said by the ÖVP: We only want some exceptions to be made within the framework of the possible – aggravation and so on – and of course we will not go further. – Is it not really about other topics? [[Abg. That's what the ÖGB will decide!]] Is it not really a matter of other issues which we should be discussing today: the real importance of Sunday rest, which process is being initiated with it, and the economic pressure to which, obviously, the legislators and the collective treaty parties in Austria want to and should be subordinated? Is it not really a matter of finding ourselves in a situation where, on the one hand, more and more people are working, more and more people have to invest in work and less and less of life, but on the other hand, hundreds of thousands of people – the number is rising – are damned to be unemployed because the economic cycle, the economic pressure, the economic premise are obviously so stored that they should not be given a chance to participate in this life? [[Abg. Verbatim: Time balances!]] Ladies and gentlemen! With the working time flexibility law you want to decide today, you take another step in this direction. All recognized economists will confirm to you that, if at all, flexibility of working time is only useful if it is combined with a reduction in working time. I know, now the union comes back and says: We could not enforce this, but at least we now have a working time flexibility which allows us to make time balances. [[Abg. Conscious: We have the opportunity to make time cuts!]] Mr Vergestnitsch, I have already pointed out the extension of the overtimes carried out in Austria. [[Abg. Powerful: screw back!]] With the measures you decide here today, you do not limit the extent of the extra work, the multi-time that people have to spend in the businesses. On the contrary: The extent will be extended. All the framework conditions of this law are suitable for enabling further work. This brings me back to Sunday work. I think it is wrong to give the signal you actually give with this exception. [[Abg. Controversy: If we stay in the current state, it's even worse!]] They are, in principle, willing to subordinate economic premise to everything, including Sunday! It is not about the sanctity or sanctity of this day, as Mr Kier said, but it is a lot more about this question. Of course, Sunday is also a cornerstone for people who feel committed to a religious tradition. Of course, they have the right to bring their traditions and values into this society and to expect society to focus on it. Of course, as mentioned in the interesting contribution made by Mr Rudas, the new leader of the SPÖ, this is what we want from Sunday: Do we want to maintain a degree of social time in this society, which allows us to maintain our relationships, our culture, our religious traditions and our family relationships, or do we want to increase our individual availability over time? I say clearly: It is about preserving and extending social times. In recent years, not only have the working hours been extended, but for certain groups the individual availability of free time has also increased. But what has waned is the common social times – whether they are spent in the fire brigade, in the family, in the church, in political parties and associations or in social institutions. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Vocal club!]] That is exactly what it is all about, ladies and gentlemen. And with the restrictions of the Sunday rest you decide here today, open the door to further restrict this social time. What Mr. Federal Managing Director Rudas put forward as a proposal is incredibly naïve, but characteristic of the development of a party that calls itself "social democratic" if its Federal Managing Director can go here today and ask: Why not exchange Sunday for any other free day? You can try to organize the other day off in such a way that the person concerned can have the family around him. – Obviously, he cannot even think out over his own plate edge. One could organize one day of the week as a free day for oneself, but of course it would not be possible to organize it for the care of social relations, whether it concerns the family or an activity in a social institution. It's not possible! . It characterizes political development in this country that one can get such a proposal into the mind at all, without at the same time considering the consequences, yes, that such a proposal as a balloon can be raised without considering the social consequences associated with it. Ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democratic Party! You also bear a grumbled level of debt to that effect! I cannot imagine that the leader of the Social Democratic Party's federal management simply makes such air bubbles rise, but there must be an intention behind them. This must be linked to the stated objective of helping certain interests to break through. He could hardly have just meant that somehow it would have come to an end. Ladies and gentlemen! This is the problem that we have with Sunday work, with these ideas that are constantly put into space, but are seen by the people as uncertainty, and which naturally cause fear. And if you warn about an emotional discussion, you must therefore be pleased that you are told that you yourself have contributed to the fact that this uncertainty can take place in society. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that some in this area will be in agreement with the amendment that we are proposing to delete the target section on Sunday rest. [[Quoted print version removed]] With the support of this request, you would take into account what the public expect of you in this country – in fact, you as a people's representative are obliged to do!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e7259	The amendment tabled just now by Mr Öllinger is in support of the Rules of Procedure and is included in the negotiations. Mrs. Hostasch has spoken. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e7283	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me to introduce the basics of the debate on the law on working time and the law on working time into the debate, since I believe that some basic findings are also suitable for bringing a little more materiality into the overall debate. The amendment to the Working Time Act and to the Labour Peace Act follows the principle of allowing flexible working time models only in so far as they do not conflict with the principles of worker protection and the legitimate interests of workers to safeguard their time sovereignty. Flexible working hours – I believe that there is consensus in the House – can not only bring economic benefits to businesses, but must also provide benefits for workers, such as through longer blocks of leisure time. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The collective agreement regulates the authorisation of more flexibility in terms of normal working time. This is the decisive step taken by this law. I believe that this is also a real step, because the collective contractual partners are those who can best assess on the ground what is necessary and what is responsible for what measures can be implemented, feasible and reasonable in the sense of the economy as well as in the interests of workers. I am therefore very glad that this political consensus to apply the collective treaty as a design element of flexibilisation could be achieved and enforced. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This law also provides for – if no collective agreement can be concluded, because there is no collective contractual entity on the employer's side, or if the collective agreement authorises the operating agreement – to allow approval by operating agreements to make arrangements directly with those concerned in their common interest, but with the involvement of the competent representative of interest, the trade union, since business agreements also need to be deposited at the trade union and communicated to them in good time. This will ensure integration and also the chance that trade unions will be able to monitor the development of flexible working hours. I believe that this is a very important measure. With regard to the view that flexibilization leads to disadvantages for workers, I would like to point out that the flexibility of this law is designed to increase only if the compensation mechanisms for workers are better - in the sense of the possibility of creating blocks of leisure. We all know that larger blocks of leisure provide more opportunities for workers to relax, even more opportunities to participate in social life, thus giving more time sovereignty to make better use of this time. I would like to stress that the normal working time in the calculation models is usually limited to nine hours and that there is no general normal working time of ten hours. A ten-hour normal working time is only possible with longer blocks of leisure and by agreement if a four-day week is to come. It is also possible to calculate over more than a year only in the event of a blockage of time. We all know that this is certainly not important and possible for a large number of self-employed people, but longer leisure areas for educational purposes, such as Sabbaths, can only be achieved through such a way. I therefore believe that it is important for the law to give collective contractual partners the opportunity to create such a design. I would like to point out - because we are particularly concerned about the protection of workers in this context - that flexibility does not go unilaterally to the expense of workers, since it is planned and very expressly stated that the situation of normal working time is at least to be reconciled and therefore also to the individual worker, who individual workers are comprehensible. Thus, the employee is protected from any unilateral order by the employer. It will make it easier to reconcile working time, leisure time and family life even with flexible working time. The calculation of normal working time does not mean that overtime is generally abolished – in the debate very often tries to convey this impression. I would also like to expressly say that this reference to a study by the Chamber of Labour, according to which 10 billion schilling losses will occur for workers, is not correct in this regard. Repeatedly, the Chamber of Labour also found that the claims made falsely were not in connection with the flexibility of working time and not in connection with the law currently under discussion, but were fictitious accounts which show what it would mean if there were no overtime and surcharges in the entire working volume at all, and what total volume would be calculated fictitiously. I believe that this clarification is important in order to give the further debate the seriosity that I believe deserves. In fact, if working hours exceed 40 hours per week or more than 8 or 9 hours per day and are not offset by shorter working hours within the calculation period, additional and compensatory hours remain. I would really like to stress this, because I believe that there should be no uncertainty about this important issue between workers and workers. Last week, I had talks with representatives of the government and also with social partners in the Netherlands because we have received the information that has been trying in Holland for years to develop models to combat unemployment and to secure employment opportunities, to improve. In the Dutch discussion too, the flexibility of working time, the design of working time plays a crucial role. The government has transferred to the social partners the broad responsibility of exploiting the potential in order to improve employment opportunities and to benefit the economy in connection with job security. – I think this step was right because the employment data in Holland show that it has succeeded in reducing unemployment and ensuring more employment. Not always are all models 100 percent transferable to another national economy. For me, however, it was very important in these discussions to get the confirmation that our path was right. I hope that, in common responsibility, the social partners will benefit from flexibility in terms of job security, job security and job creation. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to make some fundamental comments on Sunday and holiday work. – What is the current legal situation? For workers in the private sector, the Labour Peace Act normizes a basic ban on work for the weekend – from Saturday afternoon to Sunday – and also for holidays. There is no legal ban on Sunday and holiday work in the public service, for teachers and educators, for workers of legally recognized churches and religious communities, as well as for a number of specific professional groups such as housekeepers, house assistants, actors and also domestic workers. The law lays down the criteria in which work on the weekend and on the holiday is allowed. In addition to legal exceptions to certain activities – I mean monitoring and conversion work during a standstill – and, in exceptional cases, there is a catalogue of conditions for a regulation empowerment, whereby the authorisation of regulations can be carried out by both the Minister for Social Affairs and the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Head of State. It is clear from what conditions there are to be given regulations I am now saying very consciously and very specificly, because those who are going to grant and issue regulations are bound by certain legal requirements. Neither the Minister for Economic Affairs nor the Minister for Social Affairs have the possibility to impose social criteria on this power of regulation, and to say that this authorisation applies only if accompanying measures are set for workers – that is something which one would consider desirable from a social policy point of view, but which is not currently provided for in the law. I would like to refer once again to the matter. We currently have the situation that every tenth employee is often or regularly employed on Sundays and holidays. Furthermore, about 15 percent of employees occasionally work on Sunday. If you look at the individual professional groups, it is noted that 80 percent of the religious professions work on Sunday, 63.7 percent for hoteliers and innkeepers, 54.7 percent for horticulture and agriculture, 53 percent for oil and natural gas professions, and the next larger group are miners who are also employed 53 percent on Sunday, further follow-up are safety bodies and other service providers. I would like to point out that Sunday work is already enshrined in our labour law under conditions. Our interest must be in ensuring that Sunday work is accompanied by appropriate measures for the Members concerned. The system of the basic ban on Sunday and holiday work is in no way modified by the planned novelles. The ban as such remains true and Sunday work continues to be prohibited in principle. . I believe that this is the important information that we need to provide to the people and to our fellow Members, so that not due to an initial perhaps superficial discussion there is the impression that Sunday should become a normal working day. This is in no way provided for by the law, and it has also been clarified in the social partners' statement that something like this is not intended. [[Abg. Oillinger: Maderthaner didn't say anything about it!]] [[Abg. Verbatim: Read the broadcast!]] I am no longer allowed to interfere in the form of discussions between the social partners, as I have been able to do recently, but I naturally pursue with great interest how the discussion between important interlocutors for the Ministry of Social Affairs takes place. Ladies and gentlemen! To sum up, I would like to say once again, on Sunday and holiday work: The collective partners are also given responsibility, and I believe it is important that we take this step. This new regulation does not constitute a departure from the principle of free on-the-job Sundays and holidays, nor does it weaken the position of workers at the time of exceptional admission. On the contrary. I am convinced that the involvement of the collective agreement makes it possible for a better examination of such exceptions, based on the practice and the work and life needs of employees. – In this sense, I would be pleased if the House gave these laws the consent.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e7350	The next speaker is Mr Nürnberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e7372	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to express my full support for Mr Dr. Stummfully on his comments: We need to discuss these novels in a calm and factual manner, because it is a very serious issue. We need to create legal certainty for our businesses, and this novelle is also important to maintain the industrial location of Austria in international competition. I would just like to take two main points: firstly, the problem of overtime, which has been much debated. On the comments of Mr Öllinger: He may be right in many things, but only if everything comes as he described it here. I can therefore begin by saying: Today, we are adopting a law in which we only define the field of play, the framework, and dealing with flexibilization in the individual cases in practice will be the task of the union with the instruments of the collective agreement. I will later point out some examples where we have achieved a great deal of benefits and security for workers in those agreements that have been concluded up to now. On the question of overtime: Mr Haider spoke of a general redundancie of overtime. I will prove to him that this is not true. Thankfully, the Federal Minister has made it clear that the horror of 10 billion schilling, which has raised a daily newspaper, referring to a study of the AK, is not correct. Also, the horror news from your side – 10 percent less pay, 100 billion schilling loss – is not true. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Now you are against your own studies!]] The study has assumed... [[Abg. Dr. Haider: (showing a paper) You already know the leaflet, Mr. Nürnberger!]] Let us take the facts so that we know what order of overtime we are talking about. The latest available figures for the whole metal industry from 1995: 40,5 overtimes were performed annually per capita. . We are discussing here, ladies and gentlemen, on average over an hour per week per employee. But not all overtime will be lost, simply because you will not eliminate all overtime with the flexibilization instrument. A large union has even succeeded in overtime supplements from the 32rd century onwards. To get hours because in our agreement we have made it clear that, when working in a bandwidth model and working in the short week in which 32 hours is worked, because of increased work needs, the 33 will be worked longer. hour and the following are already overtime. We have also been concerned that it is not possible to juggle. If it does not come in the form of leisure time in the intended framework, then the overtime must be paid with penalty supplements – the overtime supplement is 87.5%. Mr Oellinger is right if he thinks that many economic professionals have said that flexibility makes sense only if it comes along with a reduction in working time. I have to admit that a general reduction in working time was not possible, but in the collective agreements so far – I assume that these collective agreements will be exemplary for many others – there are time supplements per hour done in a bandwidth model: 25 percent or 15 minutes. This is expected to take 45 hours of fire, one quarter of hours, and in reality a reduction in working time by one quarter of an hour. But in general, on the problem of overtime – I believe that we also have to think about it in the House; especially as a trade unionist, I say my personal and also the opinion of many or almost all trade unionists: In view of the 300 000 people who do not have a job, I recognize the statement made by Professor Dr. Bernd Marin (cf.) on the last trade union day of the Metallian trade union, namely: If you could pay a large part of the overtime – I know that everyone is not going to do it – you would create 30 000 to 35 000 new jobs at a stroke. I believe that precisely those people who do not have jobs would need this solidarity, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now it's a treat: Mr Haider, I looked at it very carefully: In your remarks, the whole team, who strongly applauded the whole club when it said: Overtime redundancies! [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You don't welcome anyone!]] But it is always different what you preach here and what you do in practice. – Mr Blünegger, your name is on the list of speakers, you can then comment on my offer. Col. Blünegger – I am still certain today –, in your company – I don't want to call the company, you know where you are employed – a business agreement was also concluded with your voice, which is against any law that is against any collective contract, because it is a total of 100 hours without the overtime surcharges. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You have accepted this as well! 15 percent of workers outside the law!]] [[Further calls.]] Mr Blünegger, I now make you the following offer, since you are a member of the Metallian Trade Union: Make yourself available to sue this operating agreement because it is illegal. You get full legal protection from your competent union! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] – Preaching water and drinking wine – this has again been a good example. That's how you are! – You can say if you accept legal protection or not. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: But this is not the first time!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Blünegger.]] You're welcome to bring this action. Ladies and gentlemen! Some comments on Sunday work. My voluntary speaking time limit does not allow longer remarks, therefore only so much: It will certainly – I say this to the address of all those who have expressed themselves skeptically in the last few days – not come to a general approval through the back door. It seems that when we write the economic necessity into the law, the trade unions will be allowed to do Sunday work. We will look very closely at each individual case and will also ensure that social compensation measures are guaranteed for employees. But I must point out one thing, because last Friday the Director-General of a large company put the rod in the window through the media. He said: If the trade union doesn't have one. On April 1st, Sunday work will be allowed, and production will be relocated. I'm just saying, The relevant metal trade union is not feasible on this issue. But I must also stress that no one, neither on the part of the Church nor on the other, has helped us in this matter, it has been silent in this respect. As a trade union, however, we will bring this question to a reasonable solution ourselves. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The amendment we are going to adopt guarantees that Austria will remain internationally competitive as an industrial location. New jobs will certainly not bring them, but they will help to make existing jobs safer. The trade unions have done this so far and will continue to ensure that workers are not on the line but are assured and can benefit from flexibilization.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e7502	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Chief. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e7524	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to begin by addressing some of the issues raised by Mr Nürnberger, who referred to the operating agreement of Mr Blünegger's company. First: If you have verified yourself today, Mr Nürnberger, you will know that the operating agreement has signed the works councillors Erler Josef and Wesselberger Fritz – both belong to your social-democratic union group. [[Abg. Nürnberger: That was decided unanimously!]] [[Violent contradiction with the liberals.]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] Secondly, you will be clear, Mr Nürnberger, that there was no clarity of vote in the works committee, but two liberals did not agree. [[Abg. Leikam: unanimously! Unanimously!]] I would therefore ask you, Mr Nürnberger, if you are here to bring in the debate against all the relevant laws of this Republic to begin where the real Signatories are, namely in your own group. The names are known: Erler Josef and Wechselberger Fritz. Perhaps you could agree in the group to comply with the laws of this state, including, of course, the workers' protection laws, and to enter into business agreements in a way that respects the federal laws and will not forget the protection of workers. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I therefore say this so clearly and clearly, Mr Vergestnich, because what is being debated here today is more likely to undermine the interests of workers than what the liberals have proposed for the flexibility of the working world. There is no discussion at all about this, but we can talk about it in peace. You know, of course, the papers of the Group of the European Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Party of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. You also know that there are all the deadlines that the EU has set as maximum deadlines... – Mr Vergestnitsch! [[Abg. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) What am I supposed to think of an offer from your party chairman, who says that he agrees to this regulation if we abandon worker protection?]] You know very well that Dr. Haider's approval referred to another point, namely the abolition of the nonsensical ban on night work for women, in my view. You must remember the discussion about the Bakery Act. It is quite reprehensible that those who – I would have said almost: studied – have completed the training as a baker now can work at night, while those who pack the products there can still start working only in the early days. That's the law. These nonsenses were adopted here in the House four months ago. Mr Vergestnitsch! There would be a lot of things that could be done, and so were those words of our federal party, which you put on. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Before the end of my short speaking time, I would like to make another motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] I should like to return to the discussion that has been held so far, particularly the comments made by Mr Dkfm. It's stupid. I have only missed in listing the needs for Sunday work that he would have also brought into the discussion the weather crash and the fortunately then existing fur coat sellers on Sunday to prove that everyone in this Republic has to work urgently on Sunday. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: This is a weak argument!]] I come out of a social profession and have spent decades on Sunday work, and that at a weekend service that started at 6 a.m. on Saturday and ended on Monday at 6 a.m. I therefore know how hostile to all areas of the family, to the entire personal environment, and also to the own periods of rest, are such weekend services and such possibilities. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Because it is necessary, not because of courage!]] [[Abg. Dr. stupid: Will you let the animals suffer on Sunday?]] Mr President, I should like to thank you for your support. They also spoke about the "Schnitzerl on Sunday". Unfortunately, in Austria, this "Schnitzerl on Sunday" is only available in the seasons and in some selected country guest houses and family farms. For the domestics, the houses in the small towns outside the season have been locked up for a long time on Sunday, because the additional wage costs for the farms have become so high that they do not lock up due to the lack of returns. If the agreement now goes back to the social partners and not to the legislator, then two things should also be said: Mrs. Federal Minister! The 10 billion, as the workers' chamber has calculated, will not be beaten in its full height, I will give you the right. We have already discussed in the committee the percentage with which they are actually going to hit. When you look at the numbers of the last days: 50 percent, 35 percent already in the corresponding flexibility models, and this is calculated from the 10 billion schilling, one will come about 4 to 5 billion in actual income losses, which are offset by more leisure, which is admitted. But let's look at what it looks like in practice: The young workers, when they go into the profession, are creating a family, building a house or setting up an apartment dependent on the overtime. That was exactly what made overtime so attractive to many in the first phase of their working life. Now these overtime hours are paid for in leisure. The latest figures on undeclared work in Austria are debated enough – I do not want to point out in this area now. However, many will then be dependent on accepting a second job in this "family start-up phase" due to the flexibility that may then be possible, so that you will not create new jobs, but that you will have more and more workers who will no longer be able to live by a job, but will have to take two or three occupations to keep the same standard of living and to be able to implement the same life goal they have today. I don't know if that's better. There are already many countries in which workers must have two or three occupations in order to achieve a corresponding standard of living. I do not think that it is a step forward for Austrian workers, which is being decided here today, and I do not think that this will ensure more employment in our country. I have already said this to Mr Hums a year ago in connection with the provisions on protection for older workers, and as I have rightly said, today's labour market data show up. I hope I'm not going to be right again.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e7690	The motion for a resolution, by Mr Magistrate, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Mainly read, business rules are sufficiently supported and included in the negotiations. Mrs Steibl has spoken. - Please. 8 minutes of voluntary time limit.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e7714	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! My colleague has already pointed out that flexibility has been discussed for years. I can remember that a year ago it was said that this discussion was "necessary" than a "crew". But we are now collecting the fruits or... [[Abg. Blünegger: You can't swallow this more than workers, which is a burden on us!]] I wouldn't talk about it if I didn't understand it! [[Intercession with the liberals.]] I believe that the debate can be held relatively quietly and objectively here in this Chamber, because the government parties know how important this innovation is to secure jobs for the future. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] We all know that the development of the economy towards a service economy is due to a redesign. Flexibility can also be seen in this sense, including – this has already been addressed several times today – in the sense of a responsible family policy, which of course includes more time. One of the rails is the reduction of overtime. Mr Oellinger has not understood or does not want to understand a lot. In consequence, of course, it is a matter of starting up young people with a higher salary, in the sense of the principle of seniority, as is already done in some areas. This also supports a study by the Austrian Institute for Family Research, which recently summarized that more than 50 percent of women in Austria and 45 percent of men need and want better working conditions with more flexible working hours. I believe that this innovation is a step in this direction. It must, of course, continue to work in this sense. It has already been mentioned today about the so-called time account. I believe that this must also be possible during the year in order, for example, to have additional leisure time in school holidays. However, it is also necessary to promote the development of qualified part-time work for men and women. When we talk about a reduction in working time, we also need to see that we work too much – in terms of time – and then have a lot of time for family and leisure. In this context, consideration should also be given to how small and medium-sized enterprises will now deal with the new legal situation. I think of this as an example from Germany, where the competent Federal Ministers have commissioned adult education institutions to develop on-site working-time models with small and medium-sized enterprises in order to be positive for both employers and employees. We know that there are different working time models in larger farms and also in medium-sized enterprises. It is therefore high time to act on this issue. In this context, for example, I would like to mention our competition 'acts instead of words'. For example, a company works with more than 70 working time models, something that benefits the women affected in particular. Another example is a large children's shrunk company in Vorarlberg, which uses 45 different working time models for 115 women employed and has actually gone very far to the limit of admissibility. I would like to come next to a point that has been raised again and again today and will certainly still be raised, which seems very important to the ÖVP, the ÖAAB and also to me. Federal Managing Director Rudas of SPÖ has made the anti-family and workers' statement that Sunday will be "moving" on another day – not the ÖVP. This has to be clarified once. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] We also need to know what we are discussing, Mrs Silhavy. You're one of the pioneers in this direction. But it must also be said clearly: To "put" the Sunday on Tuesday is something different from what is in this innovation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to say that the ÖVP has always been about the principle of work-free Sunday, it is not a matter of general permission. We insist on the principle of the exception to the new system change, because there is also a collective agreement on the right of regulation. Sunday is a central achievement, belongs to the quality of life of the majority of Austrians and is a central point in our culture since 1855. Sunday work is an exception, will and must remain such. However, we must also say that in professional sectors where this is possible, that has already been mentioned. I don't want to have a traffic accident on a Sunday, because I might not have the "luck" anymore to come to this House once again to formulate it so salopp if on Sunday no doctor is there for me and no one is allowed to help me. I believe that this motion for a resolution, tabled by SPÖ and ÖVP, is an additional demarcation in this direction, and I hope for all of us that we can now bring this long-term discussion to a positive conclusion and do the best we can to protect the workers in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e7777	Mr Magistrate has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Peter. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e7798	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mrs Steibl, this debate will not end because this is only the beginning of a discussion on the timing of our society. Since 1990, something quite fascinating has been happening, something we have not noticed: Since 1990, we have been working less hours a year than we have active leisure time. So let's not pretend that all life is out of work! The specific question is therefore: What are we doing with this positive development, with the positive development that the average Austrian, the average Austrian, has more active leisure time, less rest and household hours, than working time? How do we redesign the new working time, how do we re-distribut it? This is an exciting discussion, Mrs Steibl, which is not over. It is only now that we are finally starting to think really about the order of time of our society. The redistribution of the work will also be called: Overtime against unemployment. This is a subject that would be fascinating to think about. There are new rules to be found: Overtime against stamping times, a topic that is constantly up-to-date in sectors with very strong seasonal structures, new qualification in work, the adjustment of the amount of work to the personal income situation of the employee. There are employees who live exclusively on their self-employed income, far too many still, but there are also employees who already have other types of income who have other desires regarding the design of their working world. Finally, it is about the personal individualization of the working world. If you say, Sunday is holy to me, and I want to be free on Sunday!, I'll tell you: Agreed! Accepted! You're right. But from where do you take the right to say to the person who prefers to work on the weekend and who is free under the week: No, you can't, dear, for I know what happiness is!Unknown term type: "%s".? Happy is only who is free on Saturday and Sunday. Whoever is not free on Saturday and Sunday must therefore be unhappy. Yes, where to take from Is that what you're trying to do? This is the point in the new design of a world that gives people more leisure time, in a world in which work has an important role, but not the exclusively dominant one. The change in the markets is doing something else. Nürnberger spoke about the quality of the industrial location. Yes, Mr Nürnberger, you are right to point out – in your empty place – but there is also a quality location of the service company, which has a much greater significance, also in the field of industrial service, industrial production. Why does the House debate almost exclusively the last remnants of industrial production of 450 000 people, which we have in Austria and whose number will continue to decline? Do discuss about the 2 million people who find additional work in the service, including in the industrial field! The answer can be found in the following conditions: adaptation not only to the industrial society, adaptation also to the service society, part-time work as a new opportunity, as a new opportunity. There are many studies that show that up to 20 percent of people working full - time today would be happy if they could work part - time. However, there is also an investigation into the fact that some of those who work part - time would like to have a full - time job. – That is what I mean by the reorganisation of the work that we will not be able to create from above, but can only be organized from below. Flexibility is not an objective, it is a necessity of productivity, because rather flexible work than inflexible none. That's how I come to the overtime dogma. The overtime is a question of a calculation period, and I welcome the fact that you have now defined the calculation period by one year. All that goes beyond the hours of the year must, of course, remain overtime. All that goes beyond a certain number of weeks' arrangements must, of course, remain overtime. But one must be clear: We will no longer be able to afford standing times where overtime has been done and paid, because we have nothing to do with it, in the global competition we stand in. I regret today when the dispute between the trade unionist and the works council breaks out. Where does the trade unionist take the right to assume that he is wiser than a works council? [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and the Freeman.]] A democratically elected works council shall determine a scheme for an operation. A democratically legitimate works council says that we want to work in the company – and then the union comes and says: No, no, you can't! This is a regulation from the top down, which may serve certain centres of power, but neither the productivity nor the quality of life of the employees who have broken their minds with their works council about how they want to work with their customers at their location in their living situation. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The following must be clear and clear: Economy is not a self-interest. If we really believed that economies were a purpose in and for ourselves, then we would be misguided. Economy has a single reason – the less we need it, the better – to represent the social value creation that we can live with and realize ourselves culturally. Of course, this acquisition of life must follow the needs of customers, for those who do not follow customer needs will have no acquisition of life. Then he must have another if he refuses one. That is to say, the more we protect the working world, the less likely it is to succeed with these regulations. This does not mean that worker protection is not indispensable and important, but the more rigid it is designed, the less the chance of success. That's all right! You have to know that! There you have to weigh between goods! Let's admit: The needs of our employees are different. There are life situations in which people want to work differently from the multitude of people. Let us, for example, choose the architectural office, where two bosses and five staff together say: We work Saturday, Sunday, Monday and Tuesday. On Saturday and Sunday, we are creative, because no one is bothering us. Monday and Tuesday we communicate with our customers, and if there is much to do, we take Wednesday to it. But at least on Thursday and Friday we want to be free to escape the appearances of the leisure society. Why don't you let that happen? – This has nothing to do with the fact that the person for whom Sunday is important says within the company: That's my life pattern, and I want to stay arrested in this life picture. We have a new society! We have singles, we have the famous "dinks" – double income, no kids – we have the families with adult children, but we have increasingly a society that dissolves from the old forms of living together. Let's let her do this! But let us also leave families with children – and that is only if I really respond to the needs of the employee in the in-house cooperation – of course the right to spend days together. We should discuss the culture of the work constitution when we talk about the timing of this society. The culture of the work constitution, which must be strengthened, will be the real nucleus for the new working world in a new era of our society. Ladies and gentlemen! So Sunday work will remain an exception as long as a majority of people in this country want it, but not because we maintain a dogma. Sunday work will be done where it is necessary and where it is desired. And it is partially desired in a small, manageable area. But there will be more people. I believe that today no company can take arbitrary action if it has understood what business culture is, and if it has understood that it can ultimately satisfy only with its employees, but not against them customer needs. They have made a legal regulation that goes one step in the right direction, but unfortunately they have again chosen a bureaucratic implementation. Ladies and gentlemen of the coalition parties! Have you ever looked at all of these legal provisions that you will decide today? Have you ever looked at how complicated they are? – Yes, do you believe that the sum of employees in Austria, the sum of the employees, the entrepreneurs, can really understand these legal regulations? Faith Do you really think that they can really grasp this rage of paragraphs and exceptions? Are you aware of this if you decide today, although it is aimed in the right direction, so that You are, in turn, putting a next stone to the fact that there is legal uncertainty in Austria? There is legal uncertainty, therefore, because the people who are supposed to work with this law are unable, in detail, in its complexity, in its variety of provisions – of the conciliation committees that are there to not talk at all. Our liberal model proposal was simple. We said: Annual working time; whoever exceeds it, overtime. Weekly working time – International Labour Organisation, Social Charter of the European Union – 48 hours, all about it: Overtime. Daily working time: 10 hours. What about it: Overtime. – This is manageable, controllable and approachable. This requires a commitment to the design of collective contracts, agreements and service contracts. However, if you believe that you have to regulate everything at the top, in the indispensable law – what you are going to do with this law decision that you are going to take today – I believe that you are losing some clarity, legal certainty and the opportunity that the flexibility for more employment in Austria offers.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e7909	The next speaker is Mrs Reitsamer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e7925	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Sunday work continues to be prohibited in principle. I let the story of the creation of the law to be decided today pass a little revue and lead me to the rounds of negotiations of autumn 1996, namely the absolute No to safeguard collective agreements and always the rod in the window: safeguarding and creating jobs. I'm allowed to say: I believe in the protection of jobs, but I doubt that additional jobs will be created. I'm allowed to deposit it here. [[Abg. May. Peter: You just have to let her!]] Slow down! I would also like to say to you, Mr Peter. I found the discussion about Sunday work on the radio yesterday, when I heard that Mr Kiss had spoken out on this issue by the ÖVP, and this is now suddenly presented as if Sunday work were going on for all the workers. [[Abg. Kiss: What are you talking about?]] To date, exceptions have been possible through regulations, but exceptions have not been made without additional protection measures, as the Federal Minister has already said here. When it comes to these regulations, not often even the workers concerned have intervened for fear of their job, so that the desired exception has been granted. The pressure of the economy to ensure that economic aspects also play a role in the admission of Sunday work has been much more significant for years. § 12a of the Labour Peace Act does not alter the system of the principle ban on work on Sundays and holidays. However, it is allowed, on a collective basis, to allow Sunday and holiday work in case of urgent economic needs and job security. This will not weaken the position of workers. The integration of the collective agreement makes it possible to examine such exceptions in practice, working conditions and living conditions for employees. I do not want to hide that I find what has been happening in the last few days around the Labour Peace Act extremely worrying: first of all for years of pressure, threats with job losses, plant demise and others more. But then, after a modest change, everything is mobilized and given the public the impression that it is the Social Democrats who wanted to abolish the ban on Sunday work. Our answer should be that, according to this behaviour, we abolish all the existing exceptions. But we do not do that, although this process, as it has played, has greatly shaken my confidence. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Allow me now to say a few words on Mr Kier's amendment. I can certainly win this sympathy, but: In fact, economics includes technologies. Since there is a cooperation of the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs, it is not possible to deal with this in five minutes. We should therefore continue to talk about this matter after the adoption of today's amendment. Mr Peter asked: What gives us the power, as it were, to define happiness? – We cannot define it, I agree. But as the mother of a young man working in a health profession working in gymnastics, I must say that it is not based on his definition of happiness, but on the very reality of his ministry. – But Mr Peter unfortunately does not listen to me at the moment. [[Abg. May. Peter: Mrs. Colleague, I'm all ears!]] In view of the short speaking time, I must continue. Since today the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has so much strengthened the protection of workers, I must say: "The suspension of workers' protection for a few years" is mentioned here – the quote of your party observer Haider in the "Presse" of 7. February 1997. At first I must say that I think it is strange if a group of social policies is so strapped if, for example, a Salzburg Council of State has said quickly on requests for the assistance of the elderly at the time: Imagine, we have a rat plague in Salzburg, and the official posts write out 5 to 10 S per rat tail. Some will make an honest effort to kill the rats. Others will breed rats to make money. I'll leave it to you as you think about something like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e7998	Mrs Petrovic has now been reported to the House. – Mrs. Dr. Petrovic is not in the hall. I therefore call Mr Dr. Drinkl as the next speaker. Please, honourable Member, you have the floor. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e8022	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The discussion about the introduction of flexible working time is really a good example of how the opposition is making politics here in the home and also in the public. Still for the special meeting of the National Council on 18 November. February FPÖ has distributed a paper entitled "Ally for Labour". I would have thought that alliance policy in Europe had ended at the end of the 19th century. It ends at the end of the century, but please. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Aumayr.]] This working paper reads: " Flexibility will improve the competitiveness of companies in the international environment and also create jobs (part-time)." – Full d’accord. But within 24 hours you have changed your opinion: After the agreement of the social partners had become known, horror tales were spread here in the High House – and in the meantime also in the public. It was called: These measures mean loss of income for workers. 10 billion Schilling – we have heard today – are colported there. It is about an a social policy. One must see that the "little man" does not go before the dogs, was said there. At the same time, horror reports – for example, loss of 10,000 jobs due to these measures – have been put into the world. You know that this is not the case, but you also repeat from this point of view today these claims. And you also know that your milkmaid bill with the 23 National Bank reserves of pure – please apologise for this expression – is nonsense. This money is not available to the budget, but must be used for monetary policy. Please: Get away from the National Bank! Austria is not a banana republic! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[The ironic hustle and bustle of the Abg. Aumayr.]] What you're doing with the liberals, I'm going to tell you now: They're trying to make politics with the fear of people. They want to frighten people and then use their means to do so. This reminds me of Werner Fassbinder's 1973 film: "Sorry eat up soul." That's what you want. What you want is to destroy the relationship between the citizen, the Republic and the country's responsible. That's what you want! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I'll tell you: This bill won't go on! People are really not so stupid that they will go on the glue there. Or it's the opposition itself that's getting scared. I quote the spokesperson of your party, Mr Prinzhorn, who literally spoke of a "huss-puss" agreement. It seems that the agreement of the social partners has gone too quickly, which you have not expected. You would probably have liked this to be delayed. The government is setting a high pace. The liberalisation of opening hours has been decided. [[Abg. Aumayr: The load package is chained!]] The apprenticeship package is tied up, the integration package is negotiated, the trade regulation has already passed the Council of Ministers, as is the law on plant plants. They're talking about snow yesterday, I'm talking about the present. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Finally, the coalition partners and the social partners also agree on the flexibility of working time. I believe that the opposition can get scared – but not because the solutions are bad, but because you get the arguments out of the opposition, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] This system of working time is a social policy and not an social one. It helps to strengthen Austria's economic location and also to secure jobs in Austria. Whoever does not believe this, may ask those responsible for the jobs, namely the enterprises. ==References====External links== March, so very fresh, it says: "For Philips, flexible work is the key question. A clear warning shot towards Austria's location." Read this! Businesses secure jobs, and therefore we need to create appropriate framework conditions so that they can keep their locations here in Austria as well. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Aumayr: How Semperit, for example! That is a good example!]] No one claims, ladies and gentlemen, that this compromise was easy to find. Of course, both economic and employee representatives would have wanted to go beyond that. But, as President Maderthaner said, It is precisely in the essence of an agreement that everyone surrenders in the interests of the whole. [[Abg. Aumayr: The biggest crashing party there is!]] [[Abg. Steibbl: such a naughtiness!]] Before that, I tried to tell you carefully what position you are taking from the liberals at the moment. I do not think that it is necessary to qualify even further. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: This has not been very successful!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] With this draft, Austria is following an international trend. But there is an Austrian speciality: This draft is based on an agreement between the social partners. My colleague, Mr President, has already said this: These will carry out their responsibilities very, very carefully. I am also convinced that the agreed conciliation procedure will only be the exception and must never become the rule. But let's not think about it: The legal system which we have today for decision-making is very much in line with operational practice. Many businesses have already applied flexibilisation models in the past. In my Weiz district, there is a construction company that has agreed for years on the annual work model until, I admit, these contracts had to be terminated at the time of the union's operation, because these agreements were against the law. Finally, let me break a lance for our apprentices because it is important to me: The young people do not want to be treated as children. The young people want to make their working time more flexible as well as the adults. – I am thinking of non-practice bans in some sectors so far. I'm thinking about the possibility of working out window days. But I am also thinking of those young people who are busy in farms with floating time models. I am very glad that the apprenticeship sector has succeeded in this respect! Let me make one more comment in the direction of Mr Westenthaler, who, as I believe, is currently the Secretary-General of the FPÖ: If someone has produced hot air in this context, then he with his "contract with Austrian apprentices". I've read this exactly! On the one hand, in this contract, the ÖVP-teaching package is copied in large parts. It is per se not bad if you recognize this. But apart from that, you are also following the government's decisions in this area. [[Abg. Aumayr: That's why there are so many apprentice jobs!]] It'll get better! But you're already too late! The government, the coalition has already acted. I'm sorry you're late! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Aumayr: Where are the apprenticeship jobs?]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In conclusion: This package brings a major dynamic boost to the economy, while at the same time ensuring the employment of our Austrian workers. The new regulation is more practical, and it is also more honest. In particular, it is based on the agreement of the social partners, which means that their implementation can continue to reflect on workers and employers in the future. - Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e8202	Mrs Haller is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e8223	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Not only do I constantly complain of the way in which legislation is currently in place in Austria. It is produced in tons of paper, it happens over and over again and more legitimate errors, which then, in an embarrassing way, have to be corrected afterwards, and more and more of our laws are no longer constitutional. If we look closely at our legislation on material content, we note that they usually only include partial solutions, compromises – and very often bad compromises – because, as in today's agenda item 1, for example, on request 408, important framework conditions are missing. My previous speaker, Mr. Drinkl, who has now left the hall very quickly, said... [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: He's here anyway!]] Is he still there? Well, I'm glad! He has said that we have the arguments for freedom of movement. But it is exactly the other way round! Because you're making sure they don't go out of the opposition! – We have always advocated a flexible working time system, and of course we are in broad areas for such a scheme. But flexible working time arrangements cannot only go at the expense of the workers, as is the case with the present proposal! In addition, this request is unnecessary again, and it also includes a legal error which is not intended to be corrected in the Committee despite our suggestion. We liberals are therefore proposing an amendment here. The government will then vote against it again for a year or more until one is prepared to correct this mistake or this legistic slutting, which will make the rules that have already passed even more incomprehensible. I therefore propose the following amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] But today we will not only bring in this amendment, but also another and additional motion for a resolution, namely the new Karenz money law. This Charity Money Act is only a summary of previous provisions and the transfer of agendas to social security funds. However, this causes considerable costs, amounting to 60 million schilling annually. In times like this, it seems absolutely necessary! However, the legislative proposal does not contain any changes to the content, the EU rules are not implemented, there is no change in the inflexible regulation on secondary incomes for minor incomes of pensioners. On the one hand, Austria's women's policy repeatedly calls for women to be removed from the difficulties of re-entry after a child's break, but at the same time to avoid the creation of opportunities for preparation for the return to the practiced profession; on the other hand, one maintains a re-inhibition like the previous one. Since Mrs Hostasch promised us a request, I can now say: This one is not available to us today! In any case, I shall put forward the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] The new Karenzgeldsgesetz also does not include a valorization of the weekly money, although the ÖVP has moved through the federal territory for many years in all elections to the Chambers of Agriculture and has been cross-border and draws the same demand over and over again. Among other things, four years ago in Upper Austria there was a unanimous decision by the Chamber of Agriculture. As a result, there were requests from the liberals. These were rejected. The farmers have decided unanimously and have adopted a resolution. It doesn't matter, though. However, during the Tyrolean agricultural chamber election last weekend, the Farmers' Federation has again appeared with this demand. I am curious about how my colleague Kathi Horngacher, who is not here now, will behave if we make this amendment to the weekly allowance. This amendment includes an increase in the current weekly allowance. Considering that this arrangement and therefore the weekly allowance for farmers has remained the same since 1982, but at that time a wake of bread cost 19 s, while it costs 29 s today, one must understand the farmers if they really require a valorization. I therefore propose the following amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] I am really interested in how the farmers here today, in view of the last election of the Chamber of Agriculture in Tyrol and the forthcoming elections, will behave and how they will then act outside the federal states. We'll be able to make the sample on the example tonight!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e8335	All three amendments tabled by Mrs Haller, namely two amendments and one motion for a resolution, are sufficiently supported and are included in the debate. Mrs Silhavy is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e8359	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Without a doubt, the issue of working time is of fundamental importance to the working people. It is not surprising, therefore, that at today's item on the agenda such broad space is devoted to this issue. In terms of content, my previous speaker and previous speaker have already addressed this issue. However, I would like to draw attention to something, Mr Haider: The voting behaviour of the FPÖ in question 8. December and the elimination of the collective agreement on this issue have made it clear that your party is not at the heart of the workers, but the elimination of the employee's interests. It is no wonder, then, that you will not agree again today. Mrs Steibl is not in the hall now. . I would expect Mrs Steibl's support in the matter of night work, for which we have a draft, which was obviously very close to consensus in itself. I would also like to remind you that your behaviour has not necessarily helped to improve the position and protection of women workers in trade. – Now my colleague, Steibl, is there, but I do not think she has listened, otherwise you would be able to tell me if you supported us in the Night Labour Act. Maybe I can figure this out with her afterwards, because we have relatively short block times. That's why it's a shame around time now. Another point was raised by Mrs Haller just earlier. Today, we also have to adopt the Karenz money law under this item on the agenda. Mrs. Minister! First of all, I am very grateful for the fact that we have at least removed the word 'duration' from this area. Because everyone who knows how care periods go knows that they are very different from a holiday. Mrs Haller! They have already mentioned the need for this law on the transfer of benefits to health insurance. You have attached some criticism points, but you have forgotten a detail: In the future, careparents will also be able to obtain karenz money, and for this our Social Minister deserves our heartfelt thanks, because this is undoubtedly a qualitative improvement. That is why we call on you to give your consent to this draft law.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e8399	Mrs Schaffenrath has now spoken. - Please. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e8421	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm actually glad that at least... [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: (to a club member who exchange documents on the speaker's desk) Let the speaker have her documents!]] I've prepared them myself! But you are not always perfectly organized, as the past has shown! I am very glad that my two previous speakers are now at least on the 2nd floor. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. ==References====External links== Agenda item of vital importance. ==References== However, the issue of the agenda is, at least, those people – and that is almost 100 percent of them – who, as I believe, take on an essential social role, namely the care of children. I do not know very much, but a few positive approaches to this law. My previous speaker has already pointed out some improvement, but I personally have far too little to do with these positive approaches. I think it is positive that this Carenz Money Act replaces other laws and that we now have a clearer description of the legal basis for Carenz Money referees. I also think it is positive – and it has already been pointed out – that the word "duration" in connection with the karence period has finally fallen. That was a long way. The formation of consciousness has only been very hesitant. After all, the Liberals already submitted a request in July 1995. However, it has to this day taken for the belief that the care of children is an essential social task and in no way equal to vacation. Interestingly, however, there are still serious shortcomings in the linguistic field. I refer to § 8, in which men and women are certainly meant, but these terms have not been clearly formulated. However, it is in § 2, in which it is explicitly about the claim of "mothers" in connection with karenz money. "Mother" in the terminology of the German language is ultimately still a term that refers exclusively to persons of the female sex. Nevertheless, you have in this section 2 para. 2 C. 1 and Z. 5, where it concerns the exclusion of karenz money, male terms are again used, i.e. terms such as "housekeepers" and "executive partners". In my opinion, this is not only a lack of awareness of equality between men and women in the language, but it may well be legitimate concern that this is also the cause of misunderstanding and misleading handling of the law. I have now pointed out the positive improvements, but, as you have noticed, not many could list them. Although you have implemented a fundamental simplification in this law of payrolls, in the final consequence you have only re-ordered and re-numbered building blocks, in my opinion, re-orientations in content are missing. There are no real reform approaches and no approaches that would provide incentives for men to increasingly use karenz time. Unfortunately, it is still sad social reality that not even one percent of all men's pensioners are placed. There are no realistic approaches to elucidate the problems of re-entry. They continue to adhere to the rigid rules of division and rigid part-time employment. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! They have today pointed out the particular need for flexibilization in the labour market, but they have forgotten the pensioners and the pensioners. Karenz money providers need more space to be able to benefit more flexibly from the opportunities offered by the labour market. It cannot be assumed that this problem has already been solved with part-time leave. There are certainly caregivers who do not find a means of care for fixed part-time employment, but who would be able to make more flexible offers of the labour market, for example in the context of free work contracts or holiday representatives, such as jumpers. The need not to lose contact with the working world is, I believe, obvious. In this way, the problem of re-entry could also be greatly facilitated. We must, of course, raise clearly the limit on the low-tech, which you have left at the same time. In this context, we are imagining the amount of 7 000 s, similar to the limit of social security obligations in works contracts. This would be an essential and important measure, both in terms of labour market policy and in terms of women. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] We therefore tabled the following amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! Let us not forget about the debate in connection with the karenz period, that because of the karenz period at which we are of course liberals and which we consider to be important social services, the dangers to women remain evident on the labour market. It is still primary women who claim a karenz age, and thus their career opportunities are limited from the outset. Women's employment places are also not made available to the desirable extent precisely for this reason. Figures show clearly: The longer women are absent from the labour market, the less their chances for re-entry. That is why I am particularly concerned today to point out once again the essential need for the extension of childcare facilities. I urge you not only to advance the development of public institutions, but also to set out measures that will also provide fair conditions of competition for private initiatives, which are proven to be more flexible and cost-effective. Ladies and gentlemen! One more thing I'm thinking about: If you transfer today the settlement of the karenz period to the re-entry aid of the local health insurance fund, you seem to have forgotten that the karenz period is a labour market policy issue on and on itself. Two questions arise for me in this context, and I believe that the corresponding conclusion is acceptable in itself. First: Does the labour market service want to go away from a classical task area, such as the return to Karenz? And the second question: Have you, therefore, adopted the term "duration" in connection with Karenz, in order to now redefine the karenz period as – you might say – "long-term illness"? Not only the answers to these questions, but still many answers have you been guilty in the field of the karenz period so far!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e8528	Mrs Schaffenrath has tabled an amendment which is sufficiently supported and which is included in the deliberations. Next, I shall give the floor to Mr Dr. Feurstein. Please, honourable Member. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e8553	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Schaffenrath! I am willing to give you an answer to your questions. First answer: We can fully observe that there is probably no other country that has as generous a scheme for the benefit of the carcinogen as Austria. There is no other country! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] If your request were to be followed by the introduction of a lower limit of 7 000 s, it would, of course, also apply to unemployment insurance, and it would have to be clear to everyone that this would mean at least 4 billion schilling, ladies and gentlemen, a burden on unemployment insurance in the order of at least – we have already calculated this several times! To demand 4 billion schilling from the speaker's desk here, I really find it unscrupulous. You can't do that! [[In the case of the ÖVP and the Abg. Tychtl.]] The same is true of the requests made by the liberals. If we count these demands together, which Mr President-in-Office of the Council has presented here together with Mrs Haller, I shall come to an amount of at least 20 billion schilling, ladies and gentlemen, with wage tax reform and all the drum and dran. And then go here and say, this 20 billion schillings we get at the National Bank, that's not serious! You can't work like this, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Above all, if you have experienced Mr Haider's speech this morning! That's unscrupulous! That's not how we treat things. That's just not how it is, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Meisinger: We will tell you what is unscrupulous!]] Yes, I say to you about the liberals and all of the opposition, Mr Kier, who have spoken here: The flexibility of working time has been demanded by all here in the house for years. I have not heard from anyone that the extent of working time flexibility would be too generous or too narrow. None of the speakers here have said this; not of the liberals, not of the Greens – I come to your point with the Sunday work, Mr Oillinger, I come to it – no one else has demanded it. [[Abg. Oils: Oh yes!]] I would like to point out that this is simply an issue that has been discussed, which has been dealt with in the Committee and which is now being implemented. I would already think that, if something like this is done, one should also recognize the positive and not just speak against it, ladies and gentlemen. We have been flexible in public service, but also in the private sector in various areas for decades. In the public service there have been 6 months of calculation. There are 40 and more hours of time that can be collected, and no one says that overtime has been lost here, Mr Oellinger, here someone has been reduced by something, but the workers, the employees, especially in the public service, appreciate these throughput periods, appreciate that one can work more or less depending on how the work is done. So these are things that workers, too, have a positive view and accept, and even like to be handled by the employees. In this context, I think it is wrong to talk about overtime benefits, just as it has been formulated here, because I believe that the collective agreements, which are intended for the implementation of this law, are very likely to provide the opportunity to achieve a compensation, namely, to achieve compensation if additional benefits are required by the workers. Now, on the last subject I would like to address briefly, I would like to say this to the SPÖ: Ladies and gentlemen! The whole discussion of the last five or six days has been caused by the statement of your Federal Managing Director Rudas. The law clearly states – and this is clear – that no one is thinking of extending Sunday work, holiday work, but it should be made clear by supplementing the labour rest law that the collective contractual partners can agree on this too. I would like to say that the collective treaty partners can also decide on this, but if someone from SPÖ, a leading SPÖ man, says to the public that one can also "move" on Tuesday, because one has to become brightly heard, and there we too have become ill-heard by the ÖVP, Mr President Vergestnich! We therefore called for a motion for a resolution yesterday, with good reason. [[Abg. You don't have to ask me to do that!]] We asked you to do so, and you agreed. I would like to point this out clearly. This motion for a resolution will be decided with you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I'm saying something else in the direction. Freedom: Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals, in particular Mr Klubobmann Stadler! If the National Council, when the Parliament says through a law, is to be able to act in a particular area, namely in the regulation of Sunday work, with clear, clear restrictions, which are given, Parliament has the right to say in what form it has to take, namely that an important element of our cultural life, namely Sunday, must be preserved in its essential elements and must not be abandoned. [[Abg. Blünegger: You are not able to do that!]] The main thing is also the religious one for me, and it is also essential that, as Mr Kier mentioned, it remains at the seven-day week. This is an essential part. This is a rhythm that has arisen and is very good and very essential. It is also essential that the family has its place on Sunday. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is also essential for us that what has been crystallized in the field of leisure is basically maintained and that one can develop social life, i.e. the rest of work on Sunday must be maintained. – These are some of the points to be taken into account in this essential context. All in all, we believe that we have now made the clarification. I ask everyone not only to contribute to uncertainty as has happened in the last few days, but also to implement this law for the benefit of the workers and for the benefit of the entire economy in our country. I am firmly convinced that this will not only ensure jobs, but I also believe that additional employment opportunities can be created.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e8662	Mr Dr Kier has now been reported to speak. Please, honourable Member. Second word. 11 minutes limit.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e8686	Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! That is why I spoke a second time in order to withdraw the amendment I tabled in the context of my first speech and replace it with a new amendment which I would like to make to the reading as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] This new application, in its intention and in its content, fully corresponds to the first. I can therefore save further remarks. It is, however, legislatively supplemented by outlaws of provisions which are therefore unnecessary and by a transitional arrangement with regard to the exceptions previously regulated by regulations. As before, I cordially ask you to give this compromise proposal the majority. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e8765	The next speech is by Mr Blünegger. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit will be displayed. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e8786	High house! Thank you very much, Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Who today agrees to these laws, the Working Time Act and the Labour Peace Act, really does not represent the interests of the workers. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] These laws are directed against the working people and against the income of the individual workers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Drinkl.]] The loss of purchasing power certainly does not guarantee jobs, Mr. Drinkl. Flexibility takes place at the expense of workers, but where is the return? [[Abg. Koppler: What about the business agreements?]] Where is the performance in the design of working time for the individual colleague Koppler? Where does the organisation of working time remain for the individual in this law? - Nowhere! [[Abg. Koppler: What kind of board are you?- Oh, my God!]] I will address your question, Mr Koppler, when I come to what Mr Nürnberger said today. But now I'm bringing you an example where you're probably able to see what losses the workers are suffering with this law. In the case of a gross salary of 20 000 S per month, an employee loses 23 000 S per year if he makes an increase of 10 hours per month or 120 hours per year. In my view, these income losses are, as it were, a senseless loan to employers. They are provided by the employee as intermediate services, but never paid. That is why this is a intermediate and a loss of income, and that is certainly not the right way. But there are other speculations – that has not yet been mentioned – in the collective treaty agreements concerning the calculation period for holiday and Christmas money or for the 13th and 14th years. ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... There are already speculations about how this disbursement is made, with just less payment being made than now. No accompanying measures have been taken for this flexibility of working time in the field of transport which is necessary, nor have it been taken in the area of commuting times, childcare facilities, kindergartens, offices and schools. But, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖAAB Group of the ÖVP in this House, I think the Sunday work can't even sell you outside. What is being decided here today is actually the largest rubber paragraph that can exist in such a legal situation at all. I would therefore ask the 27 representatives of the ÖAAB to leave this mill today. But they would probably have to do one thing: They have to reject this law here, and I hope that they will have the courage to do the same. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: We don't need you to do that! We know what we're doing!]] If I think only of the quotations made by President Maderthaner in an advertisement in a renowned daily newspaper, then we know exactly how it is going: According to the various pressures of the savings package, the burden on workers in flexibilization is now coming. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Mandatory practice in Polemik!]] His latest demand – and this will probably go over stage – is as follows: It's about thousands of jobs. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Isn't it about jobs now?]] And then the next one comes: But a reduction in additional labour costs is essential. – This is a real demand on the part of the economy, but I have never heard that he has tried thousands of jobs to create new jobs. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Of course! What else!]] Mr Nürnberger has quoted me here, among other things, so I would like to go into it and say: Mr Nürnberger claimed that the operating agreement contained in the Jenbacher Energiesysteme has been decided that my agreement would have been reached. – That's not true. The two chairmen have signed this. [[Abg. Aumayr: Which group do they belong to?]] But I'm going into something more now, colleague Nürnberger. The union has slept and has failed to provide appropriate guidelines for the support of works councils. You always speak a double language and with double tongue! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Nürnberger: Look at the agreement!]] I know very well: I can act here, but Mr Nürnberger cannot act there, because at the Federal Board meetings of the ÖBG, he says something that is on and on its own right, but here he agrees with a law at the expense of the workers and their incomes. [[Abg. Nürnberger: You have notice protection! You can complain!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Nürnberger: No, that's not true!]] Ladies and gentlemen, workers' representatives of the great coalition! Forget your roles you need to play and do the following: Only represent the interests of the workers of whom you have been elected, among other things, but if you continue to do so, no longer should be elected! [[Abg. Koppler: Don't worry!]] Voices You don't agree to this federal law! Voices You do not agree to this law of working time and to this law of labour rest! I will be very careful today to see if you do, because you no longer represent the workers!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e8980	The request previously tabled by Mr Kier is duly supported and is therefore under negotiation. No one has been reported in the word anymore. That concludes the debate. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Wait!]] The rapporteur's final statement is not taking place. [[Abg. Oillinger: The colleague Petrovic is still on record!]] As extensive amendments and additional requests, which are partially submitted in the short term, are... apologise! I can only now see that Mrs Petrovic is still on the floor. [[Abg. Leikam: It's done! The debate is already closed!]] [[Further calls.]] Mrs Petrovic, I am sorry, I have already closed the debate. I apologize. [[Abg. May. Kammerlander: But she was reported!]] [[More lively calls.]] I'm allowed to continue. I have already mentioned the fact that there are large amendments and additional amendments which have been tabled in part and in part in the short term, and the desire for separate votes and also for a request for a vote on them. Since a short interruption would not be sufficient to make the preparation of this vote, I put all the votes on Agenda Points 1 and 2 to the time following the end of the short debate on the written reply to the question 1687/AB. We are therefore continuing to complete the agenda. 3rd. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the report of the Federal Minister for Labour and Social Affairs (III-68 of the Supplements) on the social situation 1995 (624 of the Supplements) 4. Point report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government template (413 of the Supplements): Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Principality of Liechtenstein on social security (630 of the Supplements) 5. Point report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 345/A (E) by Mr Karl Ollingerround Co-operatives on annual poverty and wealth report (625 of the Supplements) 6. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 346/A (E) by Mr Karl Oellingerround Co-operatives on poverty research focus for 1997 (626 of the Supplements) 7. Point report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the report of the Federal Minister for Labour and Social Affairs (III-32 of the Supplements) on the activity of labour inspection in the field of Federal Employment Protection in 1994 (627 of the Supplements) 8. Point report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 368/A (E) by Dr Volker Kierund Comrades on the re-codification of workers' protection (628 of the supplements) 9. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 369/A by Dr Volker Kierund Comrades on a Federal Act establishing the Workers' Protection Act 1994 (ASCHG) (BGBl. No. 450/1994) is repealed (629 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e9117	We now come to points 3 to 9 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. I would ask you to send me the messages of speech. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: The Dolinschek is the first!]] Mr Dolinschek is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Please, honourable Member. A voluntary time limit of 8 minutes is indicated.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e9148	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We are now discussing the 1995 Social Report. This report – as well as the previous reports – is an interesting and well-designed information and a reference work. The following points are striking in this report: The share of foreign employees – including those from the EEA area – in total employment in 1995 was already 9.8 percent. In 1995, job seekers and the range of teaching places in Austria were still in the balance. There was a ratio 1 : 1. Today, only more than 2,418 teaching places are available to 4 855 job seekers. The ratio is practically 2 : 1 against job seekers. Despite this recognizable development, the period between 1995 and 1997 was wasted with political struggles, without reaching objective solutions. Despite pension reform, women are still markedly disadvantaged by pension insurance, as can be seen in the Social Report. The average male pension is 13,879 p.m. and the female pension is 7 922 p.m. below. In addition, the net adjustment adopted with this pension reform a few years ago, which reduces pension from year to year. 80 percent of pensions in Austria are still granted before reaching the statutory retirement age. The monthly retirement of officials is still on average higher than the highest possible ASVG-pension. It is the average retiring of an official with 32 200 s of the maximum possible ASVG pension with 26 521 s, i.e. a shear that is wide open. The wage rate continues to decline. Income taxes and social taxes have increased more over the last one and a half decades than income from property and enterprise. 240 000 people deserved full employment – not in part-time employment! – less than 12 000 S gross per month. That must give us a lot of thought. Mrs. Federal Minister! You said in the Committee on Social Affairs that we should have confidence in the Austrian pension system. The payment procedure will continue to be the only right system to ensure the standard of living in Austria in the future. A capital scheme as a private supplementary insurance can only be complementary. We all know that pension schemes must, of course, be basic insurance. We have always represented this. However, we have repeatedly called for better opportunities for private provision and for occupational care. You're stuck in the approaches. They would have had the opportunity, in the course of the negotiations on flexible working hours, which would result in wage losses for employees, in principle a senseless credit of workers to the employer and the weekend and holiday rest being called into question, to intervene in this sense, because this scheme is tailored for corporations, but it is extremely worrying for family policy. It should have been possible to implement a reform of the right to work in favour of workers, because at present, the mobility of workers – if we are already talking about flexibility – is still limited. It should be possible for the settlement to be paid either at the time of self-announcement or transferred to an occupational pension provision – which would be the better system. You missed that during these negotiations. You have also failed to implement a wage tax reform at the same time as flexible working hours. The Minister of Finance has postponed this to the year 2000. We all know that the wage tax rate has increased from 88 billion Schilling in 1989 to 160 billion Schilling in 1996 and is planned for 183 billion Schilling this year. This represents an increase of 72 billion schillings within seven years by wage tax revenue alone, which, in principle, all self-employed people in Austria bear. If you look at wage tax revenue in January and February of this year, you can see that it has increased by 25 percent compared to the corresponding months of the previous year. The years 1998 and 1999 continued. My colleague Blünegger has already mentioned how much less a worker deserves, I will tell you that if he has made 100 hours of hourly wages and 20 hours of overtime per month, he will lose net 2 000 s per month due to the flexible working time. 100 S are a low hourly wage, and 20 overtimes are usually done by all employees in the establishments – and yet it loses 2,000 S! Ladies and gentlemen! I am surprised that the Social Democratic Party is today voting in favour of this bill when I think of the reactions of the Social Committee. There, for example, Mr Guggenberger said that flexible working hours would help to secure jobs, but no additional ones would be created, and that would be worrying, but somehow necessary, only his social democratic heart could not rejoice. Mr Guggenberger! I know you're not cheering, but you're still agreeing and you're so sorry! [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. May. Guggenberger.]] Ladies and gentlemen here in the House! What we need is to build up and not break up. We want to be more effective in all areas of society. However, we need a certain amount of income to strengthen purchasing power in Austria, because what has happened so far during flexible working hours is tailored for corporations, but not for those companies in Austria, which depend only on domestic demand. In my opinion, that is a question of concern. The purchasing power is falling. We are increasingly approaching the situation that wage income in Austria is increasingly aligned with the collective contract wage. So far they have been clearly above that, but we are increasingly approaching the minimum wage.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e9227	Mrs Reitsamer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e9248	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The general public is not affected by any other policy area as much as by social policy. It is, as it were, life-long and therefore permanent in the public debate. But it is not easy to see through for Mr and Mrs Österreicher what the numbering work is about – nor does it become more transparent, if it is being sown by any institute or opposition politicians, via media. We, the social politicians of the government parties, take the demand to respond permanently to changed framework conditions very seriously and present us with the challenges. But we also welcome the fact that in 1995 expenditure on social policy was 693 billion schilling compared with the year 1994, in which they amounted to 668 billion schilling, as well as the social rate remained roughly the same. I would like to express my joy at this. Although we cannot put our hands on social policy in any way, the comparison with the other countries and the comparison with other programmes here in the country makes us sure. I have prepared a lot from the Social Report, but I would like to shorten my originally planned speech very much because of my loyalty to the following speakers and also with regard to the other agenda items – we have a blockage period. I want to deal with two specific points. The first point includes the topic of "individual employees". According to a report from the main association, there were an average of 136 500 employees per year, of which – how could it be different? – 72 percent women. Since 1994, reports have no longer been made anonymously via the AUVA, but personally via the regional health telephone. About 80 000 of these small employees had a different relationship and were socially insured. By July 1996, however, 3 032 people had more than a small employment relationship. Although this is a relatively small part, a summary of these employment conditions would result in a social security obligation and thus also a requirement for entitlement. Since the main women concerned are women, they should always be told that they are in favour of a very small advantage of their claims. Another point is the care allowance. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Guggenberger.]] No, as far as job security is concerned, Mr Guggenberger. No problem. There were 19 billion schilling of expenses from the Federal Care Money Act in 1995. Now the care allowance is a flat rate benefit. Of 268,000 care recipients, 9 percent were in Stages 5 and 1 percent were in Stages 6 and 7. This is a total of just over 49 000 people affected. For these there is a care and care effort of 120 to 180 hours. In the family area, care is always provided by a reference person. If you care for clubs, you can say that several caregivers are cared for by one person. Ladies and gentlemen! On average, that would be at least 20 000 part-time jobs, and I want to go on to that. An example from my federal state, how to meet this: The hourly rate for home help is 250 p. It's going to be – and now you're gonna hear about it. I'm sure you're right. – per hour requires a self-service from the care allowance of exactly 50 S, in addition to another self-service of income, which, depending on availability, is located between 35 S and 75 S. In the case of micro-incomes, it is flat-rated to 380. After that, a grant of the country, which is not insignificant, is already being used, i.e. the country is shooting between 100 S and 150 S per day of care. This would be nothing negative in itself, but it would be because the country has to save, even less hours of care, than would initially be necessary after the care allowance classification. A proposal would be to use the care money for aids, quite for several parallel care services, and only when this care allowance is exhausted to require further self-service depending on income. After that, the country's grant should be used. This might not help countries to save, but would result in a massive boost in the quality of care and job creation. That, ladies and gentlemen, seems to me to be the most important thing. We are now in a situation where home help is in a situation where we have to engage in 20 000 s of open self-service. Over the same period, 90 000 s of care money has been paid. The son of the lady concerned told me that he needed the money to cover the debts of his company. – That, please, can’t make sense! Even if care items have been purchased, even if a second association has cooperated, 50 000 s remain used for purposes. It can't go on that way! I took a paper that the Federal Minister said that the care allowance was very much at her heart. Ladies and gentlemen! It's also my heart. But it should be used for the care and care of those people for whom it was intended, exclusively. That's my opinion. I have to cut short and come to the conclusion of my speech, but I do not wish to miss out on thanking all the employees, colleagues and colleagues of the Federal Ministry of Labour, Health and Social Affairs for this excellent and clear report. It is only when we have dealt with various other reports that we appreciate the clarity of the social report!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e9318	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr Kier. Please, honourable Member. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e9339	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I too would like to take a very short look because we already had a fundamental social policy debate today. However, I would like to address some aspects of this. In particular, I would like to take immediately the thanks of my previous speaker and put him at the forefront of my remarks. The report is a valuable help, it is presented on time, and it is pleasant for work. Therefore, our thanks to the authors and authors. At the same time, however, this report is also a document which shows us that our social security systems are extremely weak in performance. In addition, the data findings, which represent improvements there or there, cannot be obscured. The performance of a social security system is to be measured by its efficiency, its reliability and also its perceptibility, because, in social security systems, we are vitally dependent on their being borne by a broad population consensus. If they are carried by a broad consensus, then a debate that uses the word "social-smarots" does not occur at all. The fact that such prejudices may fall on fertile soil is a first indicator of the beginning of social consensus. We know that there are sufficient political forces in our country that are interested in breaking this social consensus. For this reason and for humanity's sake, we would therefore be well advised to consider reforms which will result in no one being abandoned in this country. We do the latter, however, increasingly, if we only work with categorize, and for example because we hold on to a very specific form of statutory health insurance, buy that a growing number of people are no longer legally insured. The findings in the world of work show that the number of people who have no permanent work may increase further, especially if we do not implement reforms. And even if we make reforms, the pace of these reforms may not be fast enough to overcome the pace of rationalisation effects. We assume that more and more people are facing the problem of living not only under the poverty limit, but also are not really secure in the event of illness, because everything cannot be solved by the construction of co-insurance. Mrs Reitsamer referred to the care allowance and meant that she was worried because it was sometimes alienated. I must tell her that she is right, and if you are concerned about this, you have to take this issue into account. But I also have to tell her that a huge field of the estrangement of care money – a estrangement of purpose from his basic philosophy – has not even been tailor-made in the previous discussion. Please be aware: If someone who is a nurse comes to the hospital, it is now regulated in such a way that the care allowance rests immediately from the date of delivery with very short periods of time. If someone comes to a public care home, then the care money is used to flow from one country to another as a "grey financial compensation". We have seen clearly that immediately after the introduction of the care allowance – which I would like to call a great achievement here – tariffs in public care facilities have been increased. The money was directly used to flow from the federal government, so to speak, as a grey financial compensation to the Landesbanken. Although this is not an alienation of purpose from the care, it does not correspond to the philosophy of the care allowance. The current philosophy presupposes that the caregiver, the client in the care sector, can organize himself. He can certainly also make the choice of home. However, since we have not developed a system of personal assistance, no such things, generally the home is the only address to which he can contact if it does not go differently. But this leads to this de facto alienation. On the other hand, if care services are provided in the family association, therefore the money remains partly in the family association, I do not think that this is a temporary alienation. This is perhaps, if you want to, a virtually grey labour market, and one has to talk about whether one could not improve something there. It may also result in abuse of the immediate environment of the person concerned. It is clear that this is in principle possible. However, it cannot be assumed that part-funds for care services – more is not the care allowance; these are not full-cost reimbursements – then if they remain in the family association and allow a family member to devote a lot of time to the person concerned, as well as a small partial compensation to the person concerned, constitute a temporary alienation of purpose. This is not an alienation of purpose, but that is actually what we wanted. It may not be very transparent, because everything takes place after the control. If we want to change this, we need to extend the balance sheet. We would then have to pay higher amounts which the recipients of the money would then have to tax themselves. This might even be a good idea, because it would make it clearer what is happening in this area, and because those concerned may even be able to finance their own insurance benefits, but it extends the balance sheet. Firstly, on the one hand, this would result in more expenditure which came back later on the other than revenue – and at present it is an unfavourable time to demand such a thing. It's a superlative thought. It is not an alienation of purpose! I think that we will only move on if we continue to discuss in this spirit. That would be living neighborhood, family and part-time work in one. Of course, we also need accompanying control, but this will probably be possible in a trusting cooperation with other trusted services, whether with Caritas, Red Cross or local overviews. In this sense, I do not always ask that in such considerations the word "absorbation" be put into the mouth immediately, if one means a single case or several individual cases in which someone has actually been shut down. There will always be. A law that excludes the case that anyone can abuse it once, we will not, I fear, invent. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e9409	Mrs Gatterer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e9431	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Although the 1995 Social Report was drawn up, it is a very essential work document for us, for the members of this House. It also shows the necessary options for the future. I would also like to express my warm thanks to all those who have contributed to the preparation of the report, but whose work is sometimes not appreciated accordingly. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Members often feel that it is very difficult to read and study the report, but much more work is behind it, much more effort is being put together and formulated. I mean, that's what you have to say here. This report is really a valuable help for our work! The social report indicates positively that good social security schemes in Austria are still in place. The Austrians are well protected in the event of illness. I did not fully understand Mr Kier in this regard. Mr Kier! The 1995 Social Report states that 99 per cent of all Austrians are sick. This is a success report that, as I mean, we should show ourselves quite self-confidently again and again. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Kier: But one percent is still missing!]] For the ÖVP, I would like to say: We do not want to question and discuss co-insurance – currently there are around 2.9 million co-insurers, especially wives and children – in any way because it represents a very essential family policy measure for us. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The Austrians are also very well protected in old age. Although my Carinthian colleague Dolinschek – he is not here now – said that the pensions were basically at risk of being much worse, the amounts had fallen. – However, the present social report states that pensions increased by 306 per cent from 1970 to 1995, but the consumer price index is only 204 per cent. This means that the pensioners have experienced a substantial increase in their purchasing power at this time. In this context, I think we really have to stress that we have been very successful. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As far as care provision is concerned, Mr Kier has also mentioned, I am very glad that we share the view that the most valuable and important pillar in the care of the elderly and the disabled is the family. Over 80 percent of care is provided in the families! I am very glad that Mr Kier is also of this opinion. Maybe this is a common battle that we will win once: I believe that the main objective in the field of care is to ensure social security for women and those who do not otherwise have social security. I hope we achieve this goal together. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Nicer and more power. Guggenberger.]] In the Social Report, the law of the Court of Appeal, which has been adopted since 1. In July 1997, it was mentioned. Mrs. Federal Minister Hostasch! I would like to ask you about the effects of this right of appeal, although I know that this is difficult to answer from the pult. The report does not state how many people have claimed the right of appeal, nor how many of them have been able to claim a different level of care. This will certainly be the next social report. This too will be an essential support for us to see if we are on the right path. The social report, of course, also shows social injustices. He is for us women – unfortunately, or thank God – the only reference work, because of which we black on white unfortunately have to recognise again and again that the injustices are still very great. In the case of monthly income – including part-time workers – there is still a surplus earnings of up to 43 percent for men. Unemployment benefits are also much lower for women: It is an average of 9 900 S for men, an average of 7 400 S for women. It also becomes apparent that unemployment benefit can only be a support. In my opinion, unemployment aid should really only be a means of helping people get back into work and pursue this objective, but it should not be a poverty trap. In the case of pensions, unfortunately, the average female pension is almost half of the male pension. For men, the average pension is 13,879 p.m., for women at 7,922 p.m., but it must be said that the billing of child rearing times has already brought substantial improvements. I mean, we're on the right track. It is positive to say that for the wages and salaries, the officials are equal to their male colleagues. There are even officials who have a better wage level than their male colleagues. I think that's very positive. However, it must be said that only 23 percent of officials are female. In addition, 63 percent of public servants are only contract staff. – Nevertheless, I believe that the Confederation can be proud of the fact that at least in the field of civil servants, the pay equality which we repeatedly demand in so many speeches has been achieved. I mean, you have to put that out. The average female income, despite all the hindrances, has increased in recent years, i.e. until 1994, by 11.5% more than the average male income. It is a shame, as the report also points out, that unemployment has been felt since 1995. There have been cuts in women's income since 1995, so that they are now behind the men again, including the growth rates. The risk of job loss is discussed in detail in the Social Report. I think we can be glad that this horror of 300 000 unemployed people in Austria will be reduced again. This does not mean, however, that there is no need to take initiatives in this area. The Social Report also makes us aware that the most expensive form of unemployment is long-term unemployment and that 20 percent of the long-term unemployed consume 50 percent of the funds. This is a terrifying fact that is being presented to us here, and it is seen that everything must be done by the Government and the National Council to bring long-term unemployed back into work. The most recent initiatives put forward here in this House and also by the Government are in this direction, and today's decisions on flexible working time. The reform of the trade system will also help create new jobs. Similarly, new models – like those with the service check that Rosemarie Bauer presented – offer women and, above all, long-term unemployed a new challenge and new opportunities. The apprenticeship package – the social report shows that there is a need for action in this area – is, I believe, an initiative that will help young people. However, I would like to briefly discuss the tense situation in the labour market in another direction, with regard to the risk of poverty. In a social state, we must pay attention to the fact that we are really safeguarding the socially weak. With increasing unemployment – Mr Oellinger has proposed a number of initiatives here – we must, of course, pay particular attention to the fact that we do not create a real risk of poverty in any social area. It is therefore so important to deal with poverty reduction in the future in the Social Report, because we really need to focus more on it. On behalf of my group, I would like to stress: For us, the single mother is particularly vulnerable to poverty, especially for us children's rich families are vulnerable, and single earners are particularly affected by poverty. If we want to combat poverty successfully, we need a corresponding tax reform. We should also take a closer look at the income level of young families, the wage level of professionals. We have to ask ourselves whether it is really a goal to maintain such large income differences as the social report shows, for example, between young and older workers. I believe that we must also ensure that women are generally protected by social law. Since we know today that every fifth woman has no pension rights over 60, we need considerable action in this area. We of the EIA would be the first and most important step in creating at least a supply compensation for those women who otherwise have no social security.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e9509	Mr Oellinger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Please, honourable Member. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e9531	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, the Social Report is an important document. It is one of the rare documents in which, at least in the social field, at least attempts are made to collect some comprehensive statistical data. There is no doubt about that. Nevertheless, we have not been associated with the Green Criticism of this report, which is because figures are presented, but – and this is also different from the previous social reports – this report has not been made. I am right there with the contents of the report and with you, Mrs Reitsamer. I would like to see a social report not only mentioning the fact that there are little employees, in a large number of cases. We agree that only this sharp increase in the number of small employees from just under 100 000 in 1994 to more than 150 000 at the end of 1996 – a trend that is continuing to rise – must cause concern and concern about the social security of these people. - That's one. What I expect from a social report is that, for example, he takes account of this increase in small employees together with the development of part-time workers and, as a result, also the – I am grateful for this expression – a somewhat relativizing jubilation of the high number of self-employed workers in Austria, especially when one sees these figures in connection with social security. Of course, we have 3 million employees, but behind these 3 million employees, unlike in the 1970s or 1980s, more and more people are hiding in precarious employment conditions, in poor social conditions. There are, on the one hand, the 150 000 minor employees who have no right to unemployment and old-age pensions at all, and then there are part-time workers, which are almost 400 000 unemployees, who have only a bad right to an old-age pension. I miss this connection between the 3 million employees on the one hand and the increasingly precarious security of the social security system on the other. It would be the task of the Social Report to deal with these figures in their consideration, to identify trends, to make analyses and also to make prospects for the development of social security or a social system. It is not enough for us to know only that there are so many people who deserve under 12 000 s. This is also a point to be mentioned: There are still a quarter of a million people who earn less than 12,000 s, most of them women. 25 percent of women workers earn less than 12,000 S gross for full - time work. You can't repeat these numbers often enough! In addition to these 160 000 women, who, above all as teatime workers, earn less than 12,000 s, there is a lot of employees, especially women, who have to pay a fee that is not enough for survival. But they are often able to have only this merit at their disposal. These figures should be made more visible in a social report than before in a consultation, especially because this is also linked to the issue of contributions. If people are paid badly, if they are slightly paid, they not only have no right to an old-age pension or to an unemployment pension, but they also do not bring any income for our social system. And this is the problem that we have to deal with to a greater extent – given the need not only to secure this social system, but also to reorganise, rebuild, at least provide minimum guarantees! I do not think, as you do, Mrs Gatterer, that we are dealing with a "excellent" pension system. I'm telling you quite honestly: I also took the view that the Austrian pension system is not so bad at all. But if you look at the data a little more closely – especially what was mentioned earlier: that a large group of people are out of the pension system at all, especially the women – then you can see that this does not look good at all. I have had a number of things to do in recent weeks and months. There are women who have not been employed continuously, but who have been working for a total of 11, 12 or 13 years and who have also raised children in addition to their 12, 13 years of work and have not received a pension. This system is still unable to provide these women with an old age pension. I think that's unacceptable! [[Federal Minister Hostasch: That's not true!]] Of course that's true! [[Federal Minister Hostasch:... come to 15 years!]] If they get over it with the replacement times! The problem is that, despite the replacement times, many do not manage to get over it, many remain at these limits. This is still the real problem, especially among older women, among minor employees. But a sharp rise in the number of younger women, I would suspect once, and, so to speak, retiring women in the purchasing system have to be concerned that they do not receive old age insurance. That's a problem! I cannot therefore share this view, even as far as the level of pensions is concerned. An ASVG-pension for two persons equal to 12 000 S is not enough, that is the minimum. But a pension of 12 000 S, Mrs. Gatterer, unfortunately, many, many who have worked for their lives: Workers, women workers. For the workers – I do not need to tell you that – it is if they are not lucky to get a compensation allowance, their own pension is even lower. The farmers also receive very low self-employed pensions. In other words, we do not have to deal with a situation where we can knock on our shoulders and say: Against poverty in particular, our pension system, our social system is good! On the contrary! Ladies and gentlemen! I am very glad that we have managed, together - Social Democrats, Greens - to include a chapter on poverty in this social report. I would like to make one more comment: I also wanted a wealth chapter, even though it might not fit so directly into the social report, for the following reason: In Austria, we are increasingly confronted with the fact that the wealth in our country is rising among few people, and nobody, neither the Minister of Finance nor the Federal Chancellor, nor any authority, and whether the Statistical Central Office, can provide information on how this wealth is spreading. It is an impossible situation that we know, on the one hand, that there are 6 000 billion schilling of assets, but no one can give information about how this asset is distributed, who are the owners of this property, to what extent this asset is increasing. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, I need you to agree: There is an urgent need for action, even if this need for action is not necessarily reflected in a social report. This is the task of the Federal Government, I think, the Minister of Finance. But if they did not, it would have been nice if the Social Report had not only been reported on the high incomes but also on the high assets. Another chapter I would like to make – and that is what I have reached at the end of my remarks; it will go out until 3 p.m. – concerns worker protection. [[Interference of Federal Minister Hostasch.]] That's what I'm passionate about, Mrs. Minister! . I would point out that the situation in the area of workers' protection – contrary to the complaints that come from the EIA, from the Free Trade and the Liberal Forum – is by far not so good. On the contrary: The situation of workers' protection is partly precarious, ladies and gentlemen. On the one hand, we are discussing research promotion and technology promotion, but on the other hand, there are no conditions under which research and technology development can be positively stimulated. I would like to give you examples of how technological innovations have been triggered in Scandinavian countries by strict workers' protection, by limit values that have affected businesses, in terms of health, the environment, which are inconceivable for Austria, because the framework conditions are so lax in us. In Austria, we have a list of market values, a list of limit values for workers' protection, which has already been stored in the shop of Mrs Minister. Since 1992 this list has no longer been amended, while it is amended in Germany every year and many other substances have been included in this list in the Scandinavian countries. Another point on this chapter: occupational diseases. I have already mentioned it in the Committee: There is obviously something like the "Homo austriacus" picture of occupational diseases or occupational diseases that dominates the thinking of accident insurance. If we look at the statistics, it must be noted that we Austrians are much more insensitive to noise than, for example, the Germans. We have 455 diseases due to noise problems in Austria, while 8 017 cases have been reported in Germany. This also does not fit with the population key. Other examples: Skin disorders: Austria 523, Germany 7 333. Diseases in asbestos – and this is the terrifying one, and I say that this is quite clearly a political, economic influence from the accident insurance institution! –: 21 cases in Austria. And that, even though we were one of the main causers and major garbage producers at asbestos in Europe! In no other European country – unless in the southern countries – has this question been dealt with as lax as in Austria. I repeat: Austria: 21 Diseases, Germany: 3 294 Diseases. Ladies and gentlemen! Explain this difference to me! You can't explain. This can only be explained by the fact that there is a lot of pressure and little information in this area. Mrs. Federal Minister! This is not necessarily the case. I know your place of business responsibility, but I think it is important to also discuss in this context that we obviously have an accident insurance, which, although it is possible to do well in hospitals, has little precautions, little information, so that in fact the occupational diseases are dealt with differently, and thus there is a pressure on the change in the framework conditions. That's the problem! Finally, the Public Service Labour Inspectorate's Report: I think it absurd that, obviously now again, we are talking about time of presence, about the extension of For example, attendance hours of teachers in schools in view of a situation of which the labour inspection report says each year that every second school does not even discuss a wardrobe, let alone a desk for teachers in the school. It is absurd, ladies and gentlemen, to discuss the extension of attendance times, if, for example, the teachers do not even have a place where they can sit in the school and place their books! That's the one point. The other point is: It is striking that in the field of agriculture and forestry, the Labour Inspector's Ministry of Labour, almost every building he enters, either falls over loose bricks or something, for example, falls off the ceiling. I think that's impossible! It's not much better at the Ministry of Defence, and it's about accommodation, but it's done something in part. I think it impossible that there is a state that is unbearable in the Federal Offices. This can only be explained by the fact that the labour inspectorate does not have a sufficient job for the public service. Ceterum censeo: For the public service, the protection of workers must be the same as for the private sector. In this task, ladies and gentlemen, you are more required than ever at this time!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e9597	High house! I am now interrupting the negotiations on points 3 to 9 of the agenda, so that the required debate on a urgent question can take place at 3 p.m. in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Request for urgent procedure of Deputies Ing. Monika Langthaler, MMag. Dr. Madeleine Petrovic, Andreas Wabl, friends to the Federal Minister for Agriculture and Forestry on releases of genetically modified plants in Austria (2148/J)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e9634	We now come to the urgent debate on written question 2148/J. As this has now been done to all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the author. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e9756	First of all, I would like to express my thanks to Mrs Ing. Langthaler as the questioner on the grounds of the urgent question. According to § 93 para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed their term of office for 20 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e9777	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The topic of genetic engineering has again gained a new facet in the last few days, has gained additional bristle due to the cloned sheep. In connection with cloning and genetically modified living beings, there is a right to have a huge need for information on the part of the population and a lot of fears to be addressed rationally, but above all with open information. Mr Umweltminister! In the last few days, we have received information which has caused us very much doubts about the fulfilment of the obligation to provide information to the ODP ministers and which gives rise to the impression that you are consciously secreting very essential things, and that is to be kept secret until the genetic engineering people's desire from 7th to 14th. April will take place in Austria, is over. Ladies and gentlemen! The genetic engineering people's desire is particularly due to the fact that the Federal Government has not yet managed to regulate this subject in accordance with the law, so that there can in fact be no risk and no danger to man and the environment, and because the ignorance of many people has still not been satisfied in any way and their fears have not been disproved. Ladies and gentlemen! We Greens have repeatedly stressed in the many genetic engineering debates here in this House that we make a big difference between the applications of genetic engineering in the field of medicine, cancer therapy, AIDS therapy, and the applications of genetic engineering in the field of food production. We Greens have repeatedly pointed out, on many examples, that the risks of this technology in the field of food production have not been clarified in any way that, on the contrary, science has in many cases been fundamentally mistaken. We Greens have also drawn attention to the fact that in this area there is no need to suspend the population from trying to use the population as a whole as an experimental rabbit and to pose a risk without need. Ladies and gentlemen! It is, and we all know, the question of hunger in the world not a question of new technologies, but a question of distribution and a question of poor and rich. None of the genetically modified plants that have been chosen by the chemical crops so far are concerned today with combating hunger in the world, but it is only about maximising profit in an industry that has been under pressure, for example, because the marketing of pesticides is stagnating, and because, in many countries, it has resulted in a reduction of the use of pesticides due to legal regulations, such as specific taxes such as pesticides tax in Sweden. The chemical multis have seen genetic engineering worldwide as a new opportunity to sell more pesticides than before. The company that we want to talk about today and in relation to which we will, in part, make very serious accusations against you, Mr Umweltminister, here, I would like to begin by briefly describing. It is about the company AgrEvo, a subsidiary of the chemical giant Hoechst and Schäring, which was founded exclusively for the purpose of researching in the field of genetic engineering in connection with increased use of pesticides and preparing for a corresponding development. The company Hoechst, but also other chemical multis, counts the expenses for the development of a pesticides with 300 to 400 million D-Mark. Just so you can see what sum this is all about: In recent years, the company AgrEvo has bought up very large companies that have already tried to release genetically modified plants in Austria. Last year, in Styria – perhaps especially the Steirs in this house – a release application was submitted by Plant Genetic Systems, PGS, for genetically modified maize in Austria, which did not come to an assessment or treatment because there was so much resistance in Austria. This company was anyway bought up by the company AgrEvo, namely a sum of – and you have to imagine that! – more than 8 billion schilling. That is just mentioned so that you can get an impression of what amounts there are in total and what economic interests there are. Again: The PGS company is being bought up by 8 billion Schilling by a larger one, namely the one we want to dedicate ourselves to here today, namely the AgrEvo company! There are also other huge investments: At the same time, the development of new herbicides, new pesticides and of course also the development of corresponding herbicides-resistant plants is being invested. All of this costs a lot of money, and according to economic pressure, it is also tried to exert massive pressure on politics, everywhere in Europe, of course also in Austria. Now, in Austria, because of a great resistance in the population, a genetic engineering people's desire will take place, which has three essential demands. One of these demands is: no genetically modified food in Austria, and the second requirement concerns the ban on the release of genetically modified plants. It seems as if the ministers, whether from SPÖ or ÖVP side, no longer wanted to have a public debate on this subject before this popular desire, in order not to put it even more into the spotlight and not to motivate more people to sign this popular desire, because the more people sign, the more – we know – political pressure also increases. Mr Umweltminister! We Greens have originally made this urgent request to the Minister for Agriculture. We know that Mr Molterer has repeatedly expressed his views on the use of herbicides-resistant plants and that he has repeatedly pointed out, in the last television broadcast on the subject, how important the information in this sensitive area is to the public. But this information – and we should show you that very carefully – is not in any way done in any way by the ÖVP ministers. The company AgrEvo is in possession of something about which all companies seeking herbicide-resistant plants request, namely an EU-wide authorisation for sowing, for placing on the market, in this case, genetically modified rape. You don't need permission in Austria anymore. There is an EU authorisation already granted by the Commission in February of last year and it will allow this company to suspend this seed in Austria as well. We now know from our research that this company is planning, this autumn at the latest, to make suspensions of genetically modified rape in six fields in Austria, and we also know, Mr Environment Minister, that the representatives of this company have spoken to you and to your colleagues, Molterer and Farnleitner. In the urgent question, we have formulated this precisely and precisely and today we want to have a reply from you to the question whether it is right that company representatives, for example the Mr. Námeurgericht of Hoechst and Mr. Korosec of the company T.B. Agro-technics, not only with the Federal Minister of Agriculture, but also with you, have clearly informed you on a date in February that it will be possible to release genetically modified rape in Austria this autumn, but that you and your colleagues have also suggested that there is currently no political favourable situation because we have a popular desire on this subject in Austria in a few weeks and therefore everything must be done to keep this information away from the public. If that is true, this is simply an inconspicuous scandal, Mr Environment Minister. What you are doing here is taking place in a truly important, sensitive area where the public has a right to information. There's something you don't know! They are doing exactly what many have suspected for months, namely that, above all, the ÖVP has long concluded a more or less informal contract with the Genlobby and the Chemical Multis, that everything that has to do with organic farmers and the whole programme of eco-social agriculture is nothing more than lip recognition and you have long politically agreed that large-scale genetically modified plants should be exposed in Austria. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Umweltminister! We want to know today whether these talks have taken place with this company in accordance with our current research and whether it is right that you have given them more or less green light. We have also collected information from this company, which has obviously enjoyed these discussions with you and your colleagues – the climate must have been very nice – and which obviously does not expect any resistance from politics, the Federal Government and, in particular, the three ÖVP ministers at all. Mr Umweltminister! This is one of the many areas where you are very disappointed and we feel that you are not telling the public honestly. We will continue to discuss this today in the framework of the Environmental Control Report, where you are planning simply to abolish important parts of environmental control in this country. It is a mystery to me why, as an environmental minister, you are standing on the side of the economy on a permanent basis, although I know that you did not really want to become an environmental minister, but rather became economic ministers. Maybe you will soon! This could be expected if we were to listen to ÖVP-internally how unpopular the current Minister of Economic Affairs is there. However, in this case it would be fairer to change the resort immediately and not to use the environment to get higher consecrations. We really have the feeling that you are abandoning the environmental organizations, that you are not treating an important topic such as genetic engineering adequately, that you do not support us so that Austria remains a free zone of genetic engineering, that you do not, above all, support us in showing that it is possible to operate organic farming in Austria in such a way that it becomes a genuine seal of quality for Austria. For I would like to see what Austrian farmers will do in three or four years when the corresponding funding ends. The entire public support is degressive, you know that just as well as I do. Most of them will face a ruined existence. Where, then, are the framework conditions that will absorb these existences? They tell us on all possible occasions how important it is to do something in the field of organic farming and to set up initiatives in this area. What is happening in the field of genetic engineering makes ecological agriculture impossible for a very, very long time, and also makes it possible for Austria to become a real site for organic production, both in the classical economy, in the industrial sector and in the field of agriculture. There would be a great opportunity, especially because the vast majority of the population would really be behind it. There would be great support for this area by a large majority of the open-minded population. But what we want from you today is an answer to these questions which we have asked you very precisely, an answer to the question as to how it is true that you have long since given this company the Pouvoir, this autumn in Austria Raps, and in the event that this company will receive the approval for maize in April, even in April or May accordingly to suspend maize. Mr Umweltminister! We could have made this request to all three ministers of the ÖVP, both to Minister Molterer, to you and to Minister Farnleitner. We very much hope that you may also be able to tell us how the ÖVP now wants to position itself on the topic of genetic engineering. It would be more honest, then at least to be open, as it does in part to Federal Minister Farnleitner, who believes that he himself has no problem with this technology at all and can be used quietly in the field of food and herbicides-resistant plants. But then you should tell the people honestly, then we can also have a better discourse with you with different arguments. But press ahead, want to disappear and wait for the genetic engineering people's desire to be over and then inform the public that more or less "packed out" is already going to be exposed to six fields of genetically modified rape in autumn, which is simply irresponsible! There, Minister for the Environment, you are clearly in the wrong place! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e9892	In response to the question, the Federal Minister for Agriculture and Forestry, Mr Bartenstein, has now notified himself. The speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e9913	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Federal Government is not pressing it, the Federal Government is not disappearing, Mrs Langthaler, but – and you may have missed that – it has taken a clear position over the last few days on genetic engineering, which was voted on in the Council of Ministers and which has taken a comprehensive position on the current issues, including this question and our clear no to clone in the human field, even though we know that cloning is not a genetic process on and on its own, but is generally pushed there. We do not engage with anyone, but we are driving a clear line, which is responsible but also differentiated at the same time, something that you, Mrs Langthaler, certainly do not do at all. Nevertheless, I welcome the fact that today in the House, because of this urgent question, there is an opportunity to discuss this important issue. You, Mrs Langthaler, have mentioned that at least in the field of health and medicine the application of genetic engineering is also welcomed by you, and some sentences later on you have of the free genetic engineering Zone Austria spoke – that is, a certain contradiction within itself. It should be noted that genetic engineering is already helping and helping hundreds of thousands of people today. I am thinking only of the fact that in Austria alone there are more than 250 000 diabetics who are interested in genetically modified insulin, because it has clear advantages over the insulin that has been isolated from pigs or bovine animals. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Are we talking about diabetics or raps here?]] On the other hand, it is also a clear position of the Federal Government that we are acting for ethical reasons for border crossing in the field of the application of genetic engineering, namely where it concerns respect for life and respect for creation. We therefore call for a clear and rigorous examination of all risks. In particular, where the question of herbicidal tolerances is concerned with unwanted antibiotic resistance or not clearly discussed allergy potentials, we should be careful. High house! We also urge special care and examination when it comes to introducing products that are genetically modified into the food chain, because the benefit-risk relationship can and should be questionable: little benefit and, in some cases, a certain risk. Mrs Langthaler! In addition, we advocate comprehensive information for consumers when it comes to genetic engineering products. You know that the Federal Minister for Women's Affairs and Consumer Protection Prammer has signed a regulation in agreement with the Minister for Economic Affairs for the negative identification of genetically modified foods, which will enter into force in the next few days. We have, and I should like to point out with pride, also contributed a lot to the fact that in the EU there has not only been greater caution, but also a certain rethinking on the use of genetic engineering. I can still recall the Council meeting of the Environment Ministers in June 1996 when it was Austria that focused its attention on the shortcomings of the EU Release Directive and on the extremely problematic authorisation of genmais. We have been successful in so far as this approval has been delayed for at least half a year, which I will be able to speak to later. It was Austria that, with the help of a substantial part of its EU Parliamentarians, has also worked for the rapid adoption of the Novel Food Regulation and, I have said, is now taking this novel food regulation forward at national level with the regulation of Mrs Prammer. It was also Austria that has carried out a further review of the genmai authorisation. I have already mentioned this. Austria has even used Article 16 of the Release Directive 90/220 so that this product, at least until the EU Commission decides again, is prohibited for transport and imports to Austria. It was also Austria – Mrs Langthaler, you know all that; what you said was in part against better knowledge – which was a pioneer for other countries in this regard. For example, Austria has also motivated Luxembourg and Italy to use this Article 16 with regard to the authorisation of Genmais and thus to promulgate an import ban. It was Austria, in turn, which – most recently at the Council meeting of the Environment Ministers – pointed to the need for reform of the Release Directive and called for a reform, and we have already been assured by the Commission of this reform. Commissioner Bjerregaard has promised that a draft directive should be on the table at the June meeting of the Environment Ministers on this subject. I should also like to point out that we have successfully set up initiatives to promote the labelling of feed, both in terms of consideration of a novel feed regulation and the possibility of anchoring such labelling within the Release Directive 90/220. I should like to point out that it was we who, at EU Council level, referred to the contradictions of the genmais authorisation procedure in so far as France, as an applicant, wanted to have a general release permit, but now issued a ban on cultivation for this genmais, a contradiction which most of my colleagues at the European level have given thought to at the level of the Environment Minister in Europe. I should like to conclude by saying at EU level that we too are, in the case of Mrs Prammer and my ability, which are now becoming an initiative through our ambassadors, in order to bring as many other countries as possible, in addition to Italy and Luxembourg, on board as many other countries as possible, when it comes to the new authorisation or non-admission of Genmais, so to speak, and to achieve 26 votes in the Article 21 Committee, in order to obtain once again the issue of the "admission of Genmais" at the political level, at the Council level. I would like to thank Mrs Prammer for this cooperation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mrs Langthaler! On your general question about the position of the Federal Government: I believe that the position of the Federal Government is clear and that the actions and activities we have set were also clear. The initiatives are understandable. I am particularly pleased that these initiatives have been of above-average success in terms of our size and position in Europe in recent months. Mrs Langthaler! In the representation of Mr Molterer's Minister for Agriculture, I come specifically to your questions and therefore to the necessary answers. On your question 1: The Austrian Federal Government has presented a common position on genetic engineering – I have already referred to it – which clearly expresses the attitude towards the use of genetic engineering in agriculture. In principle, I note that genetic engineering is a new technology for the future, which is already being used in many research and application areas for the benefit of people. This can also apply to agriculture. A non-differentiated No, as it comes from your side, to genetic engineering in agriculture is therefore not a common strategy from the point of view of the Minister of Agriculture. For example, genetic engineering offers perspectives, such as in veterinary medicine or in resistance to disease. It is necessary in individual cases to weigh the advantages and disadvantages. It is therefore necessary to decide, on a case-by-case basis, whether the application of a genetic change should be assessed positively or negatively. In this sense, the increasing spread of genetic engineering worldwide will also require a prejudicial assessment and examination of projects in individual cases before any support or rejection opened up by genetic engineering. In answering these questions, the Minister for Agriculture also refers to the competitive position of the local peasantry. In order to reject a part of the Austrian farmers' attitude towards genetic engineering, it must be said that it is a desire to give to those producers, such as the organic farmers, who want to achieve this possibility without the use of genetic engineering in production. This requires strict labelling in both food and feed, i.e. both food and feed. However, this must be done at European level in order to achieve the same standards and a comprehensive declaration. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] High house! In this sense, the Federal Government has also expressed its support for the use of the opportunities of a voluntary, verifiable and reliable positive identification. Now on question 2: In the case of herbicide resistance technology, it must be said that the consideration of the specific circumstances is also decisive. If herbicides resistance of plants is associated with the possibility of reducing the use of plant protection products throughout the production process – and in Austria the use of plant protection products has declined over the last years, and this will also be the case in the next few years – or to achieve the use of more environmentally friendly and groundwater-friendly means, the holistic effect of this resistance must be considered. In no case, however, an increased herbicide use may occur. It is necessary to assess whether the possible disadvantages such as risk of crossing, damage in the event of incorrect use, non-deficiency in subsequent crops are higher than any benefit, such as the spread of the range of effects, the simplification of weed control or also the reduction of active substance effort and therefore the effort of plant protection products. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Minister of State! This is almost identical in the brochure of the company Pioneer!]] I now answer a question by Mr Langthaler and not necessarily your calls, Mr Reichhold. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Questions 3 and 4: The previously answered question shows that it is essential to carry out an accurate investigation under strict safety conditions of all the effects of certain resistances. For this reason, the implementation of research projects, which also have the use of herbicides-resistant plants with their environmental impact, can be an important contribution in order to obtain necessary information for the consideration of and conflicting arguments. Such a review of the overall impact cannot be limited solely to theoretical assessments. If practical plantation tests are necessary for this evaluation, the Austrian Genetic Engineering Act will apply. This also regulates the conditions and framework conditions for such release tests. Now on questions 5 to 17: Mr Langthaler, I would like to say in principle that I do not believe that these are matters of execution. However, I would like to say that on a sensitive issue, such as the use of genetic engineering, both proponents and opponents are constantly looking for talks with government members and political officials, perhaps also with you. It is also the duty of every decision-maker to inform as far as possible and to deal with the pro- and counter-arguments of such a new technology. For this reason, interlocutors of involved groups, whether representatives of the plant protection industry, agriculture, whether representatives of the food industry, food trade or environmental organisations, have taken place at the ministries addressed. Mrs Langthaler! I can inform you that representatives of the company AgrEvo were indeed on 11 November. In February 1997, I spoke to me about their positions on the release of genetically modified plants. I can assure you, however, that I have not received information beyond the media coverage, and I can assure you that contracts have been concluded or that there has been an agreement on release projects on my part. I would also like to inform you that, in the context of such discussions, I have always pointed out the need to comply with all the rules, particularly those concerning Genmais, the requirements of labelling, the importance of non-genotechnic organic farming, the possibilities for positive labelling, but also, in particular, the great scepticism of many citizens in Austria and the European Union. I have not been informed about specific release plans, as you have been addressed from your side. Mrs Langthaler! So much on the questions you have asked and on the occasion of this urgent question, ladies and gentlemen, on the overall very clear and comprehensible position of the Austrian Federal Government on genetic engineering. This is the position published by the Federal Government just over a week ago. Mrs Langthaler obviously did not record this, which is another reason for discussing this issue here in the House today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e9986	We are now going into the debate. I would remind you that the maximum speaking time per speaker is 10 minutes, within a total speaking time of 25 minutes per club. The next speaker was Mrs Petrovic. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e10010	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! – Minister of State! They have drawn attention to the published opinion of the Federal Government in the presence of the Minister for Agriculture. You have reported in a rather harmless way – I would say: impoverishing – the way you have talked to those, sometimes with those. [[Abg. Dkfm. Mühlbachler: He has clearly reported!]] Mr. Federal Minister said that he was on 11 November. He spoke to representatives of the AgrEvo company. Only: What my colleague Monika Langthaler said goes very far beyond what the Federal Minister has mentioned here; one can just be informed and exchange arguments. This happened just before a genetic engineering people's desire, whose success will not necessarily depend on how strongly and widely discussed in the public, how well the population is informed of what is actually happening in Austria at the moment, and what attitude – perhaps also in different ways – is taken by the coalition parties to do so. It was not a conversation, but the representatives of the AgrEvo company were looking for the conversation with the ÖVP government. There was a close succession of talks with Minister Farnleitner, Minister Molterer and just with the Minister for the Environment. It has been very specific about releases. [[Abg. Ellmauer: How do you know that?]] Among other things, the spokesperson of the company AgrEvo in the tomorrow issue of the magazine "NEWS" reports that one has spoken to government representatives. He also speaks of "political climate" in Austria and, as I said, after discussions with three members of the ÖVP government in this context, that there is a tolerant attitude, compared to other European countries. Ladies and gentlemen, above all from the Socialist Group of the Government! I don't know what that means for you, but the gentlemen from the company AgrEvo didn't look for the conversation with the competent Federal Minister. I also do not think that the other way round was to talk to any SPÖ member. Federal Minister! They say here and today that the comprehensive information of consumers should be sought. But, please, when and about what? Would you like to inform us only when the harvest of this rape seed is brought in? Do you want to inform us of the facts that have been completed, or do you want to see a broad and democratic discussion process taking place in the run-up to popular desire? It is very plausible if various government representatives now express themselves negatively on the subject of "clones", but what is actually at hand here and today, these are releases in six fields in Austria, without the people being informed of this, without a debate being held in the communities. However, the ÖVP ministers are very well informed of what is ahead. The positive climate in these discussions is explicitly mentioned by Mr. Waitz, spokesperson of the AgrEvo company. I'm asking: Where and where does this positive climate exist? – Apparently at the Austrian Minister for the Environment, the Austrian Minister for Agriculture and the Austrian Minister for Economic Affairs, but apparently not in agreement with the coalition partner. I do not know how long the representatives of the Socialist Group can take the opportunity to create a policy of complete facts here. Soya has already been elated to consumers. Now you're saying, We want to weigh the risk and the benefits from case to case. When do we want to weigh off? - If that stuff's in the fields? I want this now, a few months before the release! When is it time for this risk debate? Federal Minister! What exactly does it look like in the case of said raps? What does the herbicide balance look like? Is the cultivation of herbicides not in itself something highly problematic? I can read from representatives of agriculture, such as the Federal Director Franz Ledermüller, how to say that "the genetic engineering for Europe's agriculture is not necessary", yet "it is inevitable". Is it just more of the compulsion that counts? Who, then, is particularly involved in the development of these conditions? It is not those who are talking in advance in this positive climate, but do not inform, who say: Just do it like that! We would rather not talk loud about it now, because this could perhaps bring a few tens of thousands of people to sign this popular desire. And afterwards they say: Just bring this seed out! You don't need a permit, it's just a "marketing" – under quotation marks – and the public will have to swallow it. The Secretary-General of the Agriculture Chamber of Astl says: We can be wonderful without the new corn breeding without the new soybeans. What are these constraints? Why do we constantly stumble into such a forced logic? There are some people and a few on the government bank who are very much involved in the development of these conditions. At some point we will be faced with the question: What are we gonna do now? Now it's too late again. – This question has to be discussed now! The But the whole thing goes even further. From what hands will the seed come? Of the large genetic engineering groups that deliver the spray immediately in the double pack? - That's probably the most. In another area, with the tolerance of the Minister for Agriculture, something else happens. It is the so-called "farmer privilege" of the seed. Farmers are allowed to produce old seed varieties with the most natural for their own needs, but also for mutual agricultural aid. That's about to be deleted! This means that farmers must not even offer their old and proven seed varieties to the neighbor – in accordance with good practice. No, no, no, This would cross the billion-hard business of AgrEvo and Co. That won't be allowed anymore! The Minister of Agriculture has already blessed this in the Council of Ministers. This situation clearly brightens the situation we are facing. There are two ways: Either the path of global ecologicalisation – in my opinion, the only successful recipe for Austrian agriculture. Exploitation of the surface does not fit into genetic engineering. Cross-border ecologisation, fair marking and using it as a marketing argument across Europe – that is the way the ecologists propose. The other way is to take part in the ever more intensive competition of agricultural factories and genetic engineering companies. This is a competition that Austrian farmers cannot win. They're going to stay on the track without hope. This intensive competition cannot win Austrian agriculture. Therefore, from the Greens, the hard accusation is that you, the ÖVP ministries, are here betraying the interests of consumers as well as that of Austrian agriculture, if, without a word to the public, you conduct very concrete release negotiations in a "positive political climate" as the speaker of AgrEvo says. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: This is subjective!]] I think you will not succeed in this policy of secrecy. The question of why you don't inform the coalition partner as much as the public at large will also come from 7. I believe that this policy of secrecy, the Molterer and Bartenstein, will be included in the decision by the population.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e10083	Mrs Reitsamer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e10104	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I think that agricultural policy as a whole cannot be regulated by the genetic engineering law. I can also quote a lot today because I have found some very interesting facts in the preparation of this speech. It is undisputed that agriculture is a very controversial field of application of genetic engineering. In this respect, two areas should in principle be distinguished. This is, on the one hand, food production and, on the other hand, the production of raw materials and energy plants. We've heard it today: The objectives of genetic engineering in agriculture are primarily to safeguard income, increase revenues and adapt quality to demand. However, it is quite clear and controversial that the Austrian farmers both domestically and in European competition have great successes with organic products. Farmers who have committed themselves to organic farming must in future have the best opportunities to offer their organic products. Genetic engineering, as I mean, has not lost anything in organic farming. The urgent request of the Greens has been very strong with release – that is, in general – and also with herbicide resistance. Herbicide resistance is usually an attempt to make certain crops insensitive to a total herbicide. These total herbicides kill all or almost all green plants, except those which have been made resistant to genetic engineering. Of course – that has already been said by Mr Petrovic – chemical and seed multis promise significant profits from this technique because they can sell the herbicide and the seed together. What this means in relation to dependence, particularly the poorer population and also the smaller farmers, has already been mentioned. As far as herbicide resistance technology is concerned, I found quotations in "Nature" and "Science" which I do not want to keep from you: Whether herbicide resistance technology will prove useful or harmful to the environment is extremely questionable. In Denmark, for the first time this year it was shown that resistance genes from rape also passed on to related immatures within a very short time. The desired effect would have been lost. Since various crops are equipped with resistance genes against the same total herbicides, the problem may also arise, particularly in fruit production, that one year's crops are considered to be uncrowded during the next period of growth. Then extra herbicides should be applied. For the consumer, herbicide resistance technology is primarily of no benefit. It is also impossible for consumers to understand whether a new herbicide may have any advantages over a previous one. As far as the problem of residue is concerned, there are no significant improvements to be expected. Ladies and gentlemen! What I quoted here would not be known if there were no research. So I have a problem with research prevention. There will have to be releases for research purposes. However, for releases to maximize profits, I am not to have. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: How do you want to prevent this?]] In the introduction to the urgent request there is talk of plant release. In general, however, the individual questions concern the introduction of genetic engineering in agriculture. The Green Group speaks of an EU authorisation in April. In April there will also be the genetic engineering people's desire. The main demands are: No food from the gene laboratory in Austria, no release of genetically modified organisms in Austria. However, the effects of these releases – I am thinking of pollen flight and so on – make no limit to nuclear rays. The third claim, no patent to life, will be today... [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: What does that mean now?]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Wait Yes She's gonna stop at the cuckoo! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] They're always yelling around the area! You're just living out there, and if you're standing out here, there's absolutely nothing going on! [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: We are here in Parliament and not at a SPÖ section meeting!]] Now take good care! Forget about the liberals at most where you are! Because most of the time you act like in the kindergarten! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Bravo! Don't you like anything, Annemarie!]] But we do not provide you with babysitting facilities! Not your group! Only that you know exactly that! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] However, I think that before the genetic engineering people's desire, none of the Federal Ministers responsible for this type of decision will give any approval for a request for release attempt. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: You're taking a speech down! You have to stand behind it with your heart!]] What are you so excited about? [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: You're excited!]] No, I'm not upset at all. That I could get upset about you, there's no such thing as that! You're too important to me for that! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I have said that I hardly believe that an approval for release will come before this decision on genetic engineering is taken. Our objectives must be: Safety, consumer protection, tolerability – environmental and social compatibility – information, transparency, including with regard to labelling. There has already been a lot of talk about labelling. But it is also important for us to protect animals and species. We really need to have a wide-ranging dialogue on this issue. I think this was a hard task today. Because only information can take place before the genetic engineering people's desire. You can't take decisions for granted. That would be a disregard for the initiators of this popular desire.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e10240	Mr Leiner is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e10261	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to forward, Mrs Petrovic, the ladies and gentlemen were also with the appropriate Minister for Health. It is unfair that they were not also with SPÖ ministers. This is very important because this was particularly emphasized here. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: That was an important finding!]] I am quite right for Mr Landeshauptmann's deputy, Buchleitner, when he says in a newspaper interview of the "SN" that genetic engineering in the general population is a "buch topic", i.e. an issue dominated by emotions. According to surveys, 80 percent of people know far too little about the opportunities and risks of genetic engineering. It is therefore clear that they also reject them in the food sector. We should provide much more serious information and not be afraid of how it is constantly made by the Greens. We should know that there is no non-gen technology Austria. We need to be clear about this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Now a few comments on the genetic engineering people's desire. Instead of prohibiting genetic food, information and the choice of consumers guaranteed by appropriate labelling would be required. We know that there are already dozens of aberrations of genetically modified plants in Bavaria. It must only be strictly controlled research results and projects, then there is nothing to object to. On the contrary, risk and security research is actually being properly stimulated and driven forward. Secondly, The popular desire, and I would like to point out, is de facto a strong barrier to genetic research also in the field of medicine and, as a result, the prevention of effective therapies from today only symptomatic or non-healable diseases. The patent protection of biotechnological inventions – I point to drugs here – would not be possible at all. Think, as the Minister has already mentioned, of the genetically produced insulin or of the erythropoietin, which helps so many people with kidney disease to survive without the use of blood. I am also thinking here of transgenic animals in certain areas and mentioning the onko mouse in this regard. We know that there are diseases of people who do not occur in animals, and we can also produce them in the animal. This allows us to test medications accordingly. On the other hand, we can make substances. I remember the transgenic sheep that produces factor 8. Factor 8 is a coagulation factor that can be administered to humans. This was manufactured from the plasma earlier, and we know that in the first stages, AIDS was transferred to the clotted patients. These are all things that we need to consider in our demands. Of course, these problems need to be monitored critically, and the gene technology law needs to be further developed. I believe that there is a need for experts to do so. What is to be done about it? – I think there are already many, many measures that can be implemented. Firstly, the implementation of EU Directives 90/219: Dealing with genetically modified microorganisms in the closed system. This concerns the precise classification of each work according to its risk, a simplification of administrative procedures depending on the risk classes of the work, precise rules for risk assessment, safety measures in the individual risk classes. In this way, bureaucratic obstacles are reduced while at the same time increasing the level of security. Austria should introduce these directives as soon as possible. We also signed the Lugano Convention. I think it would be appropriate for us to include a liability scheme in the gene technology law. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The Federal Government is called upon to prepare a proposal. The liability rules of the German gene technology law should be taken into account. I also plead for a national bioethics council. Ladies and gentlemen! This has already been proposed by Landeshuptmann Schausberger from Salzburg. All the problems of modern research, in particular medical development, should be addressed there. The Bioethics Council should be essentially integrated into the development of general social ethics, especially in medical law, and participate in this respect in advance and in this regard. It is intended to act as a national testing and funding body for new and also genetic advances. The Scandinavian countries have already established such a bioethics council. It has existed in Denmark since 1987. There, too, this Bioethics Council has the power to make proposals for initiative in Parliament, to consult the Ethics Commissions and to give Parliament an overview of the state of research and to give it the ethical assessment of the likely future research results. I believe that this would also be an instrument suitable for Austria, which should be equipped with experts, scientists, ethicists and parliamentarians. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A new gene technology survey was recently called for to discuss all these new issues. I would very much like to see such a survey organised once again. The problems arising from the development of genetic technology are too highly qualified and, as I believe, too sensitive and too far-reaching for the effects of the economic location of Austria, for science and also for research, as if they could only be dealt with emotionally. I believe that this must be raised to a scientific and objective level, which will then also inform Parliament accordingly. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e10318	Mrs Dr Petrovic has made a statement on the actual correction. Please, ladies and gentlemen. The Rules of Procedure are known.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e10342	Mr Leiner stated in his statement that the representatives of the company AgrEvo also spoke to the minister responsible for genetic engineering. That's wrong. It was in the context of my statement about a very concrete information tour on the release of genetically modified rape in six Austrian fields. Three ÖVP ministers were informed of this, but not the competent Federal Minister Prammer. A discussion took place some time ago with the then, but now no longer responsible Federal Minister Krammer, but this was not about this concrete release project in six Austrian fields.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e10379	The next speech is by Mr Magistrate. Sweitzer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e10400	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In her speech, Mr Reitsamer meant that seed flight does not stop at national borders, as is the case with nuclear radiation. But she then forgot to say what she wanted to say. Does this mean that the SPÖ is resigned on this question and says that there is nothing to be done, that we have to stick to the fate that, although the consequences of genetic engineering are not devalued, they do not stop at national borders, are they as they are? If it has meant that, it is a very disappointing attitude of this government party. In other words, you agree with everything, just as Mr Leiner believes that we should be able to do everything we can. [[Abg. Dr. Leiner: such nonsense! So stupid can only be you! Shit!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I'm different. I do not think that we should be allowed to do anything we can, Mr Leiner. Should we do everything that is useful in the short term, even if a threat is associated with that which cannot yet be clearly defined? [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Read his speech, then come to see that this is not true!]] Should we do everything that helps in the short term? If you think so, Mr Leiner, then you say yes, then you say yes, because you wanted to express this with your speech. Undisputed, Mr Mühlbachler, I would like to give you a few comments on genetic engineering, for example in the field of medical research. Mr Langthaler has also expressed this in her speech. But it is also undisputed that, in the case in question, it is mainly about the profits that can be made with it. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] These are the arguments that speak in this case for the application of genetic engineering. Mr Mühlbachler, I do not know if you know: Within the EU there are 732 requests for the release of genetically modified organisms. I think these 732 requests speak a clear language. France alone has submitted 228 applications and is followed by Italy. Austria, too, is coming to an end if it is allowed to give faith to the things that have been said here in Parliament today. Austria is, above all, catching up because there is obviously a tolerant attitude on the part of the ÖVP, as has already been done today. The companies now want to find countries in which they can cash the return on their high investment, and we are obviously willing to give these groups the opportunity to cash down the return on the investments they have made. After all, there is a cake of about 500 billion schilling, which is now to be divided. - 500 billion schilling! You're going to do a lot of things to get to this money. Ladies and gentlemen! The economy, the European Union, and obviously more and more also the Austrian government policy is focusing on genetic engineering without if and but on genetic engineering. [[Call to the ÖVP: This is the untruth!]] Commissioner Bangemann in Brussels has no doubt as to whether genetic engineering belongs to the future. Bangemann goes on to say – I quote: The EU will ensure that genetic engineering does not emigrate from Europe. It is obvious that the ÖVP, with its ministers Bartenstein, Farnleitner and Molterer, will also ensure that genetic engineering in the agricultural sector in Austria is widely absorbed, because these ministers believe that genetic engineering is a healer. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein.]] There's something sold to us as a healer! You are not interested in the long-term consequences. Because these are not yet clearly defined, one goes beyond the appropriate arguments. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Non-critical advocates – I must say that to the ÖVP – have learned nothing from the consequences of Chernobyl! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! They were vehement advocates of this technique and were only partly taught by the event of Chernobyl. [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Obviously you will learn nothing from the ozone hole and obviously you will learn nothing from the greenhouse effect. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lukesch.]] These are threats that we have negotiated ourselves and which are no longer reversible today. We can't stop this development today – at least that's what it looks like. We must live with the threat and with the already timely consequences. These are examples of massive interventions that have brought us short-term benefits, but today we have to live with their long-term consequences, and these are not particularly pleasant. But you don't learn from it! The irresponsible profit is in order to overcome further problems that can be solved in the long term. I think that's the wrong way to end up in a dead end. But even about the price of large, irreparable damage, you go this way. Federal Minister! An intervention in evolution may mean that the changes over generations will reproduce. Complex systems have been changed. We still do not know how this will affect the final effect. The molecular clock is adjusted. I don't know if you're supposed to do anything like that to me. Who today can say what that really means? Can this mean, for example, that only new uncrowds arise? Can this mean that new recombinations of viruses arise? – There are so many unexplained questions, but you still want to take over this technology without any problems and provide it with appropriate opportunities in Austria. It is certain that a horizontal gene transfer carries a huge risk capital. Federal Minister! A word also for the patenting of genes. I would like to know your attitude in this regard. I am shocked by the opinion on the proposal from the European Commission for a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the legal protection of biotechnological inventions. This opinion comes from highly respected Austrian scientists, chaired by university professor Dr. Günther Kreil. The other members will be: You probably know: Bachmaier, Bydlinski, Hron, Kucsko, Schlögl, Tuppy. This Commission notes that, given the nature of the genes as chemical substances, there is no reason to treat genes with regard to patentability differently from other chemical substances. – Minister of State! There are obviously no ethical and social motives for this Commission which lead to the exclusion of patentability. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein.]] I would be very interested in your position on this question, Mr. Federal Minister. I would be very grateful if you still took a position on this today. The liberal position on this question is clear: The genetic foundations of all lives are the common natural heritage of mankind; a private property claim should not be given in this area. Federal Minister! They are invited to take initiatives at international level, at European level, to prevent the patenting of such organisms. They are invited to advance a general ban on patenting at international level. You could get us to your side if you'd be willing to work for it. Federal Minister! The use of genetic engineering in agriculture also bears Her stated goal, namely the "Fine-cost shop Austria", was to grave. It would be a chance if we were to produce genetic engineering free of genetic engineering in Austria and thus open up a market where you are really willing to pay for it. This is an opportunity to benefit, Minister of State! I cannot imagine how this should be done if it is no longer possible to guarantee that genetic engineering is produced free of genetic engineering, how our small rural family farms will survive in this international, murderous competitive situation. The main responsibility for the EIA will be if the last farming family farms – especially if they can no longer expect EU funding. Federal Minister! I would not be responsible for the fact that the Austrian population is becoming an experimental rabbit of the genetic scientists for each individual consumer. I wouldn't answer that in your place! That is why we will be fully supported by the liberals of this popular desire. We are against the production and sale of genetically modified foods. That must be prohibited. We are – as are the majority of the Austrian population – opposed to the patenting of living beings, and we are in favour of a ban on release.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e10527	Mr Leiner referred to an actual correction. I would ask you to follow the Rules of Procedure exactly.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e10557	Mr President. Mr. Minister! I am aware, in fact, that I have not said that genetic technology can develop completely freely, but that I reject the emotionalization of genetic technology, genetic engineering in Austria, as it is currently operated by the Greens and also by popular desire. This is too highly qualified and too difficult to explain. I have pointed out a scientific objectivation and one of the socially justified solutions. A bioethics council or a new survey should advise Parliament accordingly. The salvation in the eternal structure lies just with the FPÖ.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e10584	That was Mr Leiner's speech. Mr Magistrate is still in power now. Mühlbachler made a point of correcting the matter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e10612	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I really want to correct Mr Schweitzer. He noted, in his stigma of scandalisation, that by June 1996, 712 requests for release had been submitted to the EU, and he claimed that there was a strong pressure in Austria for applications. – This is incorrect. Two applications have so far been submitted by the Austrian side, which is not even 0.3 percent of the total applications. Mr Schweitzer. They wanted to scandalize something that actually looks different.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e10642	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Barmüller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e10663	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased that the EIA has now experienced honesty and that it has been made clear what really is the dimension, namely that it is not just a question of resisting, but only of making an orderly withdrawal, Mr Deputies. That's it. There's something to add: If the Federal Minister here says in the reply that genetic engineering in agriculture is a common way, then he must agree: She's a common path. But you should also tell the Austrian farmers, especially your constituency clients, what price they will pay for it. This prize is out of discussion: Genetic technology means agricultural industry, and it does not mean what Mr Molterer has said and what is being preached by your side to the ladies and gentlemen of the peasantry in Austria, namely that the farmers are so important that they must be preserved, but it really means the destruction of farmers – the profession of the farmers – in Austria. If you want to, then you have to continue this path, but it is not useful because, especially in Austria, with our structure, especially in the area of the Alps, we have to ensure that the farmers in Austria can have their way out. This, ladies and gentlemen, is not currently being persecuted by the Federal Government. It claps what is said, and what is done, far apart. It is interesting that this debate is starting in a plant – the rape – in which the concerns that have been raised have become reality. Because the worst ideas and worst scenarios described in the survey report on genetic technology, which has been adopted unanimously here in the House – that is, also with the votes of the government parties – have occurred. I was together with Mrs Motter in this committee of inquiry, including in the editorial committee, which was ultimately about formulating the report. Apparently, the government parties ignore the fact that crossovers from the plant that has been changed have actually occurred on related wild plants. Ladies and gentlemen! At the time when the report was made here in the house, all those who claimed that this was possible were those who were just technologically hostile. But it is true that this is exactly what happened. And now we also know that there are already so much PR preparations for the future that there should be a much stronger release in the future, precisely from rapes, precisely from modified rapes, which are herbicid-resistant and in which you can in no way exclude them in any way – no, on the contrary, there is already evidence – that there will be return crossings. I would like to tell you that if there are return crossings in Denmark, they will also be held in Austria. And the fact that you, that is, the one who wants to represent the farmers in Austria, is no longer sensitive is highly worrying and is criticized by us, Mr Mühlbachler. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Again: It is not only a question of giving the organic farmers a chance to have a positive labelling of non-genotechnic food, but it is also a question, ladies and gentlemen, that those farmers in Austria who do not want to be organic farmers have a chance to survive. However, you will not achieve this in this profession with the introduction of genetic technology. I only address the example of plant protection products. The Federal Minister, who is now being informed of what is really a matter, has referred to this part. We also have this part in the Fourth Environmental Control Report, where we can read it. It's always said: Look It is the use of plant protection products, but this decreases in quantity. - It's all breathing up. But once you go to a store and buy a detergent, then you'll see that you used to carry five pounds a few years ago, but today only one kilo. Why? – Because it is simply much higher concentrated; and that is the same for the substances mentioned above. The plant protection products are no longer stretched and sold expensively, but highly concentrated. It's said it's much more effective. In fact, it's only much more concentrated. They all look at the statistics and say: Wonderfully, the crowd has halved, but no one says that the concentration has increased significantly. But you can prove this in the water because the substances in the water do not decrease, and it is clear that the same path of industrialization is still under way. This is something that is not appropriate for a fair discussion in this area. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I come again for the concrete example of "raps": It must be noted to everyone that no large company will launch a herbicide-resistant rape unless at the same time it can patently call that herbicide its own against which this plant has been almost immunized. Of course, no one – if you do such a thing, if you make sure that a plant, no matter how high the use of herbicides is, is not affected – can claim that this is a way to reduce the use of herbicides. Of course not! The question is that the farmers are under the bondage of the large corporations. You know, this is generally true of hybrid seed, which is already a problem today, but genetic engineering makes all of this even stronger. On the one hand, these companies hold the patents on the very concrete plant that the farmer has to buy each year, and at the same time have the patent in hand from the respective Herbicide. Deputies! This is not suitable for maintaining organic farming. It is also not appropriate to increase farmers' incomes. This is only suitable for increasing the profits of those who hold the patents, and for that it is done, and you should not do so, not even by injunction. Ladies and gentlemen! They also see that the contradictions that exist in the declarations of government, in the reports submitted by this government to the House and in the actual actions of that government are increasing. It was only the keyword of the "Feinkosladen Österreich": In fact, the path of the agricultural industry is becoming increasingly important. And although we know that the problems are increasing, although we know that genetic technology, for example, can only be addressed to a limited extent by means of liability rules that we have today, i.e. fair risk assessment and risk sharing are currently only limited, there is no environmental liability law to date. Ladies and gentlemen! At the same time, when the genetic engineering law was passed here in the house, it was wanted to take the liability provisions into account at the time, which was a Commission's attempt. This has been rejected by reference to the fact that there will be an environmental liability law. To date, however, there is no environmental liability law. They see that, in fact, what corresponds to a fair risk distribution is not done, but in truth, what is done to maximize profits is done – but, of course, not even the profits of the farmers, but the profits of the international corporations. They were granted to them, but not necessarily at the expense of the Austrian farmers. This is also important to me because there are already several requests in the House for amendments to the Genetic Engineering Act. The Liberals have also made such a request. To date, for more than a year and a half, it is not possible to hold a debate on this request, because we brought it back immediately after the last election. But it is not possible to talk to you in this House about the fact that environmental lawyers should in future have a party position and right of appeal to the courts of public law when it comes to genetic engineering procedures. It is not possible in this House to discuss this and to establish by law that there should be a clear and understandable labelling of genetically modified products. I have already mentioned product and liability rules. I would just like to point out one thing, and this is a sign that here in Parliament, too, the government bank, often only half the truth is spread out: It is my knowledge that since last summer, namely since the summer of 1996, two regulations have been laid down by the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs, which he has not signed since then. I read in the paper that he's signed one now. This is the one that concerns the labelling of food. And in the labelling of food, ladies and gentlemen, we have waited until the EU's novel food regulation is here. But the second regulation, which, in my knowledge, has still been submitted by Mrs Krammer, is still with Mr Farnleitner. And he scares them – now I wanted to say: like the devil the holy water; but that's not how it is, of course – he doesn't finish putting his signature under it. He just can't make it. Do you know what the second regulation is about? – It concerns the seeds. If I look at what we are discussing today, namely the Raps, and if I know that Mr. Federal Minister Farnleitner has made an excuse for the government and finally signed the Food Labelling Regulation, but still not the Seeds Regulation, then I do not even need to be an Austrian learner to know what that really means. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e10766	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Kammerlander. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e10787	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. If you have heard the first round of the debate on this urgent question, you can see one thing: We can discuss dangers, danger potentials for a long time here, and how we estimate this – we have made it more often on this question – but a fact remains, and that makes me particularly bold: In our opinion, information has been hidden knowingly and with full intention. They have been kept silent to Parliament and the public, alone with the sense and purpose of not supporting a popular desire which is widely approved by the Austrian population by the fact that these information which is harmful to the Federal Government is coming to the public in good time. Minister! You cannot make us believe that you were not informed or that you knew nothing about the planned release attempts, although we could read about them in a magazine today. You can't tell me that a journalist knows more than you do as a minister, especially if a particular company – and that's not any company, as has already been mentioned and executed, it's a pretty big group – clearly says: We will exhibit this seed in Austria in autumn at several locations. Mrs Reitsamer – she is not here now – and all those who have similar ideas here and say: I do not think there will be an approval, because it would be a breach of popular desire!, I can only say: Their faith is beautiful and good, but he is better lifted elsewhere than here in Parliament and towards the government. For this group does not need permission from you, Mr Minister, nor from anyone else in the house, because this group does so in accordance with European authorisation law. Do not tell us here that you do not believe that the Minister or the Federal Government would do such a bad thing, because that would be a breach of popular desire. . It is a breach that you have information and have kept it quiet or have not given it to Parliament. This fact suffices and is reason enough for it to be a rupture of popular desire. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would be interested in what you say, Minister. You make it relatively easy, you stand there and say: Such evil things are being accused of me, all this is not true at all! – What are you saying? It is also not very glorious – should it really be true that you were not informed – that a magazine is obviously better informed than the competent minister. It is not precisely for the quality of Austrian politics and for the quality of the Austrian Federal Government when journalists know more and share this information accordingly. But the Federal Government wants to make all of us aware that it would not have known. It's a fairy tale! That can't be true. It cannot be true either that you are sitting here as a Member of Parliament and let yourself be told and do not object. The minimum would be to ask you, as a Member of Parliament, to be informed and to say that you have an information content based on truth and that you also receive it. But you are obviously allowed to pay off with every excuse and with every comment you make. You didn't know anything, we had bad luck. But in the paper it's to read. This is the consequence of your meteorological and slalom-curve policies on this issue. The whole thing is like a hot potato for you. And it's really like Mr. Barmüller said: You only see that you can take the orderly retreat. But every now and then, something gets you in the cross, and then the soup burns. This reminds me very much of the time of Zwentendorf, which reminds me very much of the time of the nuclear debate, where you all knew for a long time that what you say in public is not true at all. And it has now been proved that it has not voted that none of the arguments have ever voted. But because you decided at some point and because you said it sometime, you keep saying it. You're doing the same thing now. They stand out here and say things you know are not right. You say, for example, that the use of herbicides is going back – I just take one example of your many, many arguments. – That is not a word true! Read the opinions, read the opinion of the Umweltbundesamt Berlin, in which it is clear that one only talks about the fact that there will be no further increase, but that there will be no further reduction in experts is no longer a human being. That was just one of many arguments that have already been put here and all prove one thing: You've been running this continuous policy for 20 years. For 20 years! They believe that they always have to stick to and offer those technologies that are completely immature, extremely indiscriminate and completely questionable in their long-term effects. You then notice that you've allowed yourself to something that doesn't hold. But instead of saying: We have been deceived, we have been wrong!, a slalom course will be taken, information will be missed and not passed on to the public just to convey the image, it wouldn't be that bad. I very much hope that the 80 per cent of the Austrian population, who are against any use of genetic engineering in the field of food, will really sign food and that you will then have to withdraw in order.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e10857	The next speaker is Mr Maier. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e10879	Mr President. Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Those who have followed the discussion can only find that genetic engineering or biotechnology is a abdominal topic. It is scandalized, Mr Schweitzer simply claims that the people would be experimental rabbits. It is generalised and biotechnology and genetic engineering are absolutely and generally challenged. I will not hide my personal scepticism to genetic technology and will try to justify it in the following ways. Prior to the urgent request of the Greens: I do not think that the political leaders, as this question says, are impoverished. I would like to point out that a 12-point programme of the Federal Government has been decided. I have not yet heard any critical voices of the Greens, Liberals or the Liberals on this 12-point programme. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: The Greens obviously did not read it!]] Secondly, I would also like to point out that for some time now, the competent Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs has been working with information materials with very critical information materials, for example with this directory on genetic engineering. I would also like to inform you that the Chambers of Workers as legal representatives of their information obligations to their members meet. Together with the Salzburg Chamber of Workers, the Lower Austria Chamber of Workers has produced about this genetic engineering brochure. I cordially invite you to use these brochures. I would also like to remind you that a regulation has recently been adopted which clearly regulates the involvement of the countries in the event of possible releases and which our people can give a clear opinion on this. The whole discussion is, however, also under the impression of genetic engineering popular desire. I say quite clearly here: I will sign this genetic engineering popular desire – but not because the texting of this popular desire would be particularly intelligent. On the contrary, it is patched and it is unintelligently formulated. Because what does the first point mean? "No food from the genetic laboratory in Austria"? – Any food dealer should know whether an additive has ever been genetically modified or treated with genetically modified organisms. Or: "No release of genetically modified living beings in Austria". – What about risk research in Austria? How do you even stand for research? – By the way, I thank the Greens for their request for genetic engineering research in Austria, she was very informative. I would have liked to discuss today how we could intensify and improve risk research in Austria. Or the third point: "No patent to life." – This point, too, should have been formulated differently. I regret that. I'm going to sign anyway, but don't hide my criticism. I do not hide my criticism, especially because these formulations of faith create that only with some kind of "cantonist" or "My home is my castle" genetic problems could be solved in Austria. I recall the discussion about the air quality in Austria, which has repeatedly been argued that we need international agreements with our neighbours in order to solve these cross-border problems. This can also be the case in genetic engineering, especially when the transgenic pollen flight comes. I ask you: What are we to do in Salzburg – in Bavaria 22 releases are approved – when the Pollen flight reaches the Salzburg shore beyond the Saalach? Should we use the Federal Army or the Gendarmerie or form civil protection groups? . I think we should discuss safety requirements very clearly. Unfortunately, nothing has been said by the opposition parties and no requirements for a security policy have been established. Now the herbicides-resistant raps of the AgrEvo company. I can't believe I'm here. In this context, suspension means inter-trafficking. What does AgrEvo want? – The company AgrEvo wants to obtain the authorisation of this variety as seed. I should like to remind you that this applies to national regulations. That is to say, it will be up to us whether and under what conditions this seed is approved. When discussing genetic engineering in agriculture, we need to discuss the risks. At the University of Salzburg, many scientists are dealing with this problem, including University Professor Dr. Breitenbach. Professor Breitenbach formulated his criticism of genetic engineering in agriculture in theses. I don't want to keep them from you. I personally join these these theses. He said first of all that the state of the art of genetic engineering in agriculture was still primitive in 1996, 20 years after the beginning of the development of genetic engineering, and that there were no prospects for the future, and that there was no clear positive application. Secondly, I quote: Therefore, many, but not all of the genetically modified crops and farm animals that are now being forced on the market must be rejected. Thirdly, However, it is already clear that further progress in the investigation of the genetic bases, such as the natural resistance of plants to mushrooms, bacteria, viruses, insects, and further improvements in plant genetic engineering will lead to products that are much more environmentally friendly than current agricultural products and at the same time deliver high yields. It is a pitiful fundamental misunderstanding of the current green parties and environmental organizations that organic farming and genetic engineering are considered to be supposedly irreconcilable opposites. The opposite is true as to how examples are to be carried out here. As far as his first three theses are concerned. I join them and therefore personally I am very critical of release measures. However, when we talk about genetic engineering, we are not just talking about health issues, about environmental risks, but also about jobs. I would like to highlight this with all clarity also in the example of non-existent research. I have made the effort and tried to analyse the labour market in Salzburg to the extent that biotechnology has an impact on employment. The area of chemical plants was to be analysed. From 1991 to 1996, the Federal State of Salzburg lost 1 200 jobs – approximately 25 percent – of the employees employed in this segment. If one then deals with the companies in detail, one finds: Those in the papers who lose jobs are those who have been involved in the raw materials industry. At the same time, I found that additional jobs could be obtained in small and medium-sized enterprises – and this is covered by the European line – with their own research departments in the field of biotechnology. I therefore believe that more attention must be paid to the field of research in Austria – not least with regard to the European dimension of biotechnology. Biotechnology is a key industry of 21. ==References== We can thus secure jobs if, at the same time, we ensure that all risks, i.e. environmental risks and health risks, can be excluded.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e10918	Mrs Dr Petrovic has made a statement on the actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e10943	Mr Maier said that there would have been no public criticism on the part of the Greens of the Federal Government's 12-point declaration. – This is incorrect, as can be read in the daily "Standard" in the issue of a week ago.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e10963	The next speaker is Mrs Horngacher. - Please. Speech time: 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e10984	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! The urgent question concerns the release of genetically modified plants in Austria. On genetic change as a whole, I would like to say that research and application in the medical field are already relatively advanced and very useful. It must, of course, be handled responsibly, and there must be a clear demarcation. However, genetic changes in food production are instinctively rejected by many farmers and also by consumers. The working group on Landwives has drawn up a resolution which clearly states that the use of genetic engineering changes in food production is rejected and that, should this no longer be averted, an EU-wide strict labelling requirement must be introduced. This would at least allow consumers to avoid such food consciously. Of course, the information would have to be absolutely improved. The label should be such that it comes to the eye. However, I am concerned about this development in principle because scientific belief has already caused some harm. I remember the use of Contergan well. It was praised as a means of miracle, and the consequences were terrible. As a further example, I quote the peaceful use of nuclear energy. It was a cheap, clean thing, they told us back then. – Chernobyl has shown us what terrible consequences it can have when man plays the sorcerer: For the spirits I called, I am not going to go now. [[Abg. Aumayr: That's it!]] – The appalling consequences were due to the failure of man to ensure that all safety measures were taken in accordance with the requirements. Mr Schweitzer said earlier that the ÖVP would have been the proponent of nuclear energy. I ask you to see this more differentiated. There have been advocates and opponents in every party, just as there are certainly advocates and opponents in all parties on this issue. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Headmaster.]] Security is the point I would like to make. No one can estimate the late sequences today. In any case, a genetic change is a massive intervention into the organism and can also be an interference process. The balance of nature may be at risk. From an economic point of view, too, many farms in the United States are criticizing the fact that there was no intense debate, no discussion on the use of genetically-treated seed, but that it was simply allowed. Now those farmers are under pressure which cannot withstand the market economy dictatorship of large companies. [[Abg. Aumayr: (Applause) That's it!]] We should not commit this mistake. As a farmer, I believe that our common objective must be to produce healthy food from sustainablely managed agriculture and not to leave the production of food to the genetic workshops. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Our farmers are committed to largely natural economics, the circular economy and organic production. However, whether a small country like Austria is able to stand out permanently from such a development, namely the genetic change of food, will very much depend on the consumer. Because we also need the framework conditions to do so. Of course, it is not possible for us in Austria to introduce genetically modified food and sell it at cheap prices and to compete with these prices. In principle, I am glad that this issue is being discussed here – and very fiercely – because it is a very important issue for the future of our country. I would like to say to Mrs Petrovic: They said that secret negotiations on releases had taken place. But you then relativized it yourself by saying it was an information tour. I think information is important, and information should be held and approved everywhere. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] All in all, I would like to see a very responsible approach to this issue, bearing in mind that there are different ways of seeing that it is about the future of our children, that it should not be a short-lived economic success, but rather that it fits into sustainable management, when you think about everything carefully and very slowly, very accurately – without trying to achieve it in a political way – you are dealing with the matter and seriously discussing everything.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e11061	The next speaker is Mrs Aumayr. She's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e11083	Minister! Mr President. High house! Mr Maier – I think he's not in the hall now – spoke, among other things, of genetic engineering, or he has listed the benefits of genetic engineering in agriculture. Among other things, he led the high yields that farmers can generate through genetic engineering. I now ask myself, Mr Schwarzenberger, Mr Maier: What has happened to the so-called high yields of farmers, to the high yield of wheat or corn? Why, then, do we have land closures even before the use of genetic engineering? Why do we have price reductions of up to 50 percent on cereals? – Because there is too much, and now you and the Socialists want to use genetic engineering to generate even higher yields. This does not fit together in the back and in the front. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: We don't want to use it at all!]] – Mr Schwarzenberger! You don't want to use it? Mr Schwarzböck! You should actually send your colleague Horngacher the resolution of the working group of the Austrian women in which they oppose genetic engineering in agriculture. Mr Schwarzböck! They advertise in the important programmes in "Radio Niederösterreich" for the introduction of genetic engineering in agriculture. Mr Schwarzenberger! Do you know with what argument? – With the argument that, if genetic engineering is not allowed to be used in agriculture, farmers' deaths are continued to a greater extent. Mr Schwarzenberger! You don't know what you're actually standing for. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Horngacher says that Mr Schwarzböck is making an important contribution – probably paid by the Farmers' Federation – and you say that we do not want to use it at all. Mr Schwarzenberger! I can tell you one thing: I am getting up the gray bears when I think that the technology will soon be so far as you can be cloned. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the liberals.]] [[Intervocations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Federal Minister! They said it was Austria that insisted on a reform in the field of genetic engineering. It was Austria that has been working for a comprehensive label. It was Austria that has been active in the field of genetic engineering far before all other EU countries. But you, Mr Minister, are hiding that it was and is above all an Austrian who opens the door to genetic engineering in the European Union and thus in Austria. It is the Austrian who is now acting as a Commissioner in Brussels and who is doing the same in genetic engineering as in the BSE scandal. He did not give a reply in the National Council's main committee to what scientists or what scientific findings have moved him to release the genetically engineered maize. He didn't mention any names. He said that one-bright opinion had prompted him to release maize. - That's wrong. This Commissioner has now lied for the second time. Because in the scientific committees – and I have already dropped this over the APA... [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: That doesn't make it any better either!]] Minister! I can show the evidence: It has again suppressed protocols and has once again concealed the public that there have been dissatisfied minority opinions in the Scientific Committee and has been warned of the release of genetically engineered maize. I throw something to you, especially you from the ÖVP, massively before: It is now really giving a historic opportunity for the Austrian farmers. It affords a huge opportunity for the Austrian food industry. They are now missing the opportunity to create thousands of additional jobs in Austria. They separate organic farmers from normal farmers: One is the tough organic farmers, and the other is polluting the environment and taking the risk. They drive the farmers into total dependence on the seed monopolists. I can prove that to you. For example, Professor Ruckenbauer writes: The world-famous resistance to total herbicides in rapes, soybeans and maize varieties is the logical consequence of the enormous cost of these extremely degradable herbicides despite all concerns. The obvious dependence of the buyers on variety and herbicide must, of course, be taken into account for this purpose. – I think there is no need for any further comment.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e11161	The next speech is by Mrs Gredler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e11182	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! A statement from my previous speaker, after which the gray bears rise, when she thinks about the cloning of an ÖVP delegate, I think of it as a personal insult that is not in place in this house! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: How many times have you been offended?]] I have also been offended by Members of your group. However, I think it is impossible to speak here in such a tone during an important conversation! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Listen to Mr Schwarzenberger talk to us!]] To the contents: I believe that it is legitimate for the Federal Ministers to have talks with people who have different views on the state of the art. I do not think that the Federal Ministers must publish a list of those people with whom they have talks. I think it is absolutely their duty to do so. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: Thank you, Mrs Deputies!]] However, I must also say: I think it is nonsense to use genetic engineering to make food more resistant to herbicides and pesticides. I think it is no progress if more of these dangerous means can be used to achieve a higher yield. On the contrary, I think that this is a step back. In this respect, we lack liability in Austria. The Liberal Forum has long suggested that the question of liability be resolved, because we believe it is a key element in the entire debate on genetic technology that clear guidelines are being drawn up, so that the consumer also knows who he needs to stick to in the event of damage. Furthermore, the effects on animals and plants are unclear. This is an area that is well respected in research. If Mrs Petrovic answers to the question of 14 November, the question is: As regards the promotion of genetic engineering projects in March 1997, it will notice for itself that a number of research projects in the framework of the fourth EU framework research programme will deal with the impact of genetic engineering on animals and plants. We should therefore wait, as I believe, for the results of these research projects before we make a final yes or a final no. In view of this, I do not think it right to declare Austria as a free zone of genetic engineering, because then all the research programmes in the university and non-university would no longer be possible and would have to be discontinued. This would mean a step back and certainly no progress in the genetic engineering dialogue! In this discussion, labellings are constantly being spoken of, which are necessary, so that the consumer can orientate himself, what is free of genetic engineering and what is not. In this way, for example, there is no evidence of oil. There is no method that can be used to demonstrate genetically modified ingredients in oils. We would therefore like to see labelling on the proven use of genetic engineering and not just the indication that a product is free of genetic engineering. Otherwise, the oils would be excluded, and you know that oils, fats, margarines and so on are contained in all the products we call food. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] In the field of labelling, therefore, consideration should be given to a comprehensive protection of the consumer, and there should not be a small holding on the detection methods in the test tube!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e11258	The next speaker is Mrs Anna Huber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e11282	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Genetic engineering in agriculture and food is extremely controversial in us. We all know very well that the majority of the population in this country cannot get rid of the salad hoop from the test tube, and I honestly say to you: Me neither. It would also be incomprehensible if we did not take the fear of being justified or unfounded seriously. Intervention in the basic structure of our lives is a delicate and non-problemious act. Genetic engineering therefore requires a serious and objective debate. The Federal Government has entered this debate with its 12-point programme. With regard to the specific release and the in-trafficking of genetically modified organisms, my attitude is very clear. As a parliamentarian, I will not stand for a legal ban on imports or stand for a ban on suspension because I know very well that this is in fact impracticable on the basis of EU law. In my opinion, such a course would be a conscious deception of the consumer and the insured population. This does not mean, however, that I am in favour of the use of genetic engineering in agriculture. Minister! They have meant in the reply that the risks and chances of the use of genetic engineering in agriculture must be considered. . I believe that herbicide resistance of plants may benefit the large multinational corporations in the form of profits. In fact, however, the risk cannot be estimated. That is why I do not really think we can weigh the risks and opportunities at the moment. I am therefore very opposed to the use of genetic technology. In view of this, I speak out for the strictest – I repeat: strictest – conditions, but they must be legally sustainable. I therefore expect the Minister for Consumer Protection to continue to exploit all possibilities to prevent the release of genetically modified organisms in Austria. In fact, the Austrians do not want a very, very high percentage of food that has been genetically modified. A complete label, as to be adopted in the form of a regulation to be applied next week, is therefore the best way for consumers to actually determine what they put in their basket. I think that in this debate on agriculture it is more than clear that in Austria we need more farmers who are very conscious of the use of genetic engineering. The number of organic farmers in Austria is already 20 000. The fact that the market for organic food has not yet been exhausted has already been shown to be black and white by very many market analyses. In my opinion, this is a very, very great opportunity for our agriculture. In view of this, I would like to see better and stronger support from the Members of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. As regards genetic engineering, I believe that this initiative is very, very good, because in this way there is a wide-ranging discussion about these very incisive new techniques. This is important and necessary. However, the end of the registration must not be the end of the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e11331	The next speaker is Mr. Dr. König. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e11352	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The Greens have tabled a motion for a resolution in connection with their urgent question. They call for the following in their motion for a resolution: "The National Council wants to decide: The Federal Government is invited to involve the National Council before a ratification of the Convention on Biomedicine on Human Rights (formerly: the Council of Europe's Bioethics Convention). This call will certainly be met even if we reject this motion for a resolution. We therefore reject him because it is already in the federal constitution that no government can ratify an international treaty under international law; it can only sign it. Parliament is in any case the forum that has the last word. The proposal will therefore be complied with, even if it is not accepted, because we do not need to reinvent the federal constitution! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Today, we have heard several times – especially from the Freedom Party – that we are allowed to ban and block everything. This is, of course, the same line represented by the liberals against the EU. . I believe that, precisely because we can speak in the EU and because, above all, the large groups in the European Parliament have a right of co-determination since Maastricht, we can really influence in our sense. In the meantime, all the political groups have recognized that small Austria alone cannot determine the course of the world. However, if we are able to implement uniform rules for the whole of the European Union in our sense, they apply everywhere, and we can be sure that we are not flooded with products that do not also meet our requirements. The first major success in this respect was the Novel Food Labelling Regulation, i.e. on genetically modified products, which, according to Parliament's decision – contrary to the majority decision of the Council of Ministers against the votes of Austria, Germany, Sweden and Denmark – established that every product that has been proven to have been genetically modified, whether it has been significantly or less significantly modified, is to be identified. With this – and only with it – the consumer has the certainty that he is informed whether a product he sees on a shelf has changed genetically, whether it is imported or not. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: That's not true!]] That's what the law says: "provenly genetically modified". [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: What about the following products?]] If the genetic change is detectable and not only is claimed, it must be marked. Now I'll tell you something. [[Further call of the Abg. Ing.Reichhold.]] Don't cry, I don't have that much time! You're on the speaker list anyway, and I'm sure I won't interrupt you. There is now a patent directive for genetically modified products in the European Parliament. That's very, very important. It is also important that the strict rules of authorisation we wish to have apply throughout Europe on the occasion of patenting. This is the only way to ensure protection against the import of products, which must then be rejected under strict conditions of authorisation. This applies primarily to medical products, but also, of course, to genetically modified foods. I believe that in Austria we probably have a clear decision on non-genotechnically modified food from consumers. It has already been shown that the large chains are also interested in leading only genetically modified food, because consumers demand it. The reason of our consumers finally decides what can be bought and sold in Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Aumayr.]] We cannot introduce a ban on Austria's borders. First of all, you want to eliminate jobs in businesses from the Freedom Party by saying that you must never work on Sunday, no matter what happens, which threatens economic damage and job losses. Now you're saying, Let's shut up, no matter what happens. – Your attitude is highly destructive and workplace threatening! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Once upon a time, they were a party that was in favour of bringing economic understanding. You have a few more people in your group who have economic understanding. But these have nothing left to chat with you. [[Abg. Aumayr: That's incredible!]] That's what it looks like to you today! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] There are successful companies in Austria today who are responsible in the field of genetic engineering. What we do in the field of medicine is remarkable. To approach our scientists as a whole by saying that they will only be able to win if they work in this industry is deeply unfair to those people who have a very high responsibility in their profession. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] For medical progress, genetic engineering is no longer to be thought away. In the developing countries, we will not be able to deal with the food problem in the face of the enormous infestation without genetic engineering. [[Further call of the Abg. Aumayr.]] Mrs Aumayr! You can scream quietly! That's the truth. In Europe, in Austria, we will ensure that we have strict pan-European provisions and that the consumer knows what is on the table or what he himself buys when he or she takes the decision himself. I need to tell you something. – Deputy Schweitzer is not here now. He has claimed here that the Austrian organic farmers are perishing. We have 20 000 organic farmers in Austria, but that's not enough: With this number of 50 percent of all organic farmers in the European Union! They also need market niches in the other countries of the European Union to sell. In Austria, as already stated, we have 50 percent of all organic farmers in the Union. And it is important for both, both for organic farmers, for whom it is a matter of course, but also for the other Austrian farmers, to have a voluntary positive identification by expressing: "non-genetically modified, free of genetic engineering", not only on imported products, but also on the products coming from Austria. I believe that this protection also benefits consumers. Everything else is just demagogics and does not serve the Austrian interests or the interests of consumers, but only a cheap and very demagogic propaganda.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e11467	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Reichhold. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e11489	High house! Mr President. Mr King, first of all: The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is one of the few Austrian Members who will draw up a very important report on bioenergy and alternative forms of energy. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] This shows that our group, Mr King, – even if this hurts Mr Khol very much and he does not want to take note of it – that our group and our Members in the European Parliament are fully recognized. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: It doesn't hurt Mr. Khol, it's amusing Mr. Khol! This will hurt the Austrian taxpayer!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating They meant that jobs and genetic engineering had been tightened up. - May be. But genetic engineering will drive industrialization in agriculture. They will not be able to see as quickly as many small farmers can no longer cope with this competitive pressure. But I know that you – and obviously the entire ÖVP – have long since lost the feeling of the "workplace farm", otherwise you could not announce something like this here. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr King, thirdly, genetic engineering and the European Union. They say that we are liberals against the European Union. We have clearly explained why we are against Maastricht and therefore against centralism in the European Union. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Because you're against everything!]] I have an opinion from the President's Conference, which clearly shows that a ban on genetically modified products in Austria would be EU-absorbing. That is why you cannot say here that we are glad that we are in the European Union, because we have long been out of control of the issue and the law of action. And something else, Mr King: They say that genetic engineering law is an opportunity for organic plants. Do you know that German organic farmers can also sell genetically engineered goods as organic products, which are then imported into Austria as German organic products and land here on the market? You know that? Why don't you check it out? Then we can talk more about the opportunities of organic farmers in connection with genetic engineering. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! We farmers are facing spring growing and are now flooded with many color brochures of the seed companies. - It's a lot of sin! – corn, soya varieties are praised there. Of course, there is also advertising for genetic engineering, and of course the positive arguments outweigh. There are currently hundreds of congregations across Austria to which the large seed groups invite the farmers and explain to the farmers that this is actually not a problem. I was at some of these events and will continue to go to such events. I have read these brochures very carefully, and I have remembered the division and argumentation of these seed groups, Mr Bundesminister, about your statements here in Parliament. They were almost identical! I'd almost say they're cloned. And I have to congratulate the companies: You are able to carry the argument of the Brussels central bureaucracy, even that of the ministers here in Parliament, to the farmers up to the farm table. Perfect how this brainwashing is organized! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Only: We liberals are not there, for good reason, my much-honored Ladies and gentlemen: We do not want this technology, which is controversial in science, which is dangerous to consumers, to become normal. The argument that is repeatedly used in connection with medicine is for me a real killing argument, a cynical argument. Of course, if someone is sick, then he will take every chance – including genetic technology – to get healthy again. But is it really worth the risk that healthy people become ill due to genetically modified products? – The risk is too high for us, so we reject this technology in the food sector. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I also find the statements made by some representatives of the Chamber of Commerce, who say in lectures and in public statements that this genetic engineering is actually not so bad, because the danger of someone getting sick is less than a lotto six – one of the Chambers of Commerce has said – cynical. This means that the Chamber of Commerce expects at least one consumer per week to suffer from genetically modified products on average. That is an argument I reject, and at the same time it is proof of the danger of this technology. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The Chamber of Agriculture itself also has a completely torn attitude to genetic technology. There is an official opinion of the Presidential Conference. There are, on the one hand, new opportunities for agriculture, but on the other hand it is a pity that genetic engineering draws the ecological image of agriculture into discredit. You can read this in your own opinion. It is also said that the farmers on the one hand are exposed to international competition by genetic engineering. At the same time, however, you are promoting the eco-social agricultural policy! On the one hand, they demand strict labelling – as Mr King has said today – but they forget that soya must be marked as seed, but the soya oil produced from it no longer needs to be. I wonder, How should the consumer know what production the food comes from? They are in favour of reducing the use of plant protection products via genetic engineering, but want to withdraw from the area of herbicide resistance in genetic engineering. They demand an intensification of research on the one hand, but on the other hand they also want to promote organic farming. I do not know what you really want, Mr President Schwarzböck. You're the chairman, you obviously don't know what you want, but that with all your strength. This is typical of the agricultural chambers. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] On the issue of the dependence on the seed. I'm a farmer's son, and my father has always put the seeds aside from the best farm to grow it again next year. This should no longer be possible, for small producers already, but for those who are not small producers, no longer. In other words, one must now or one will probably have to pay license fees in the future. Do you understand what I mean? – The dependence of farmers, farmers on large seed groups will become an ever-increasing one, as will the manipulation and the influence on agriculture through genetic engineering, of course, become a much greater one. I believe that it is our duty to confess to us a genuinely natural agriculture, to break through this vicious circle in Austria and to work hard to achieve what we have to do. They also want to ensure that our opportunities in the large European market are safeguarded as ecologically oriented agriculture. We can only do this if this technology does not take place in Austria. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You can either be pregnant or not, a bite pregnant, that's not possible. That is to say, we have a principle to make. We have arrived at a giveaway and have to decide in which direction we have to go. That is why we really call for strict labelling, which includes the following products. That is to say, a kind of Genpickerl must be created, a negative identification if you want, and it must be based on this label, of course, on the Austrian environmental programme, in such a way that those farmers who want to give up this technology also receive a charge of their competitive disadvantage.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e11590	Mr Schwarzenberger referred to an actual correction. I would draw attention to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e11615	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Reichhold said that FPÖ strongly rejects genetic technology. I have in front of me the FPÖ's "Ally for Labour", and there is a proposal for an environmental programme under the heading "Preserving farm jobs": First: Absence of nitrogen fertilisation; second: Absence of chemical plant protection products and third: Quit hormones and genetic engineering. But then it is said that participation in the environmental programme should, of course, be voluntary. Either the memory is too short – or the statements are not honest!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e11651	The next speaker is Mr Guggenberger. Time left: 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e11672	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to deal solely with a motion for a resolution which I believe will be tabled by my colleague Mr Haidlmayr on behalf of the Greens, whom she has submitted to me for agreement, and therefore, of course, I know the content of this motion for a resolution. It will submit the application: The National Council wants to decide to involve the National Council before ratification of the so-called Convention on Human Rights. Let me make a few fundamental comments. I acknowledge that this Green initiative is concerned with real, serious concern. This Convention on Human Rights and Biomedicine, as it says correctly, is not undisputed at all at national and international level. Austria took part in the Council of Europe's ministerial committee on 19 November. However, in addition to this Convention, the following declaration was agreed on November 1996 – allow me to quote it literally –: "From a sad historical experience, Austria is working for the greatest possible protection of human rights and for the best safeguarding of human dignity in areas where man is faced with research and medicine. Austria therefore welcomes the creation of an international instrument requiring Member States to provide for protection in various ways. Not only because Austrian law provides for protection far beyond the Convention in some respects, but also because of humanity, it regrets Austria that the protection provided for in the Convention is not only beyond the expectations of Austria but also of many people in Europe. We will therefore "use the additional protocols for the anchoring of further commitments" – and this is a crucial sentence." – Austria’s declaration in the Council of Europe’s Ministerial Committee. And now it comes – and that was the concern of the Greens – on 4. in Spain on the signature of this Convention by several Council of Europe Member States; Austria will not be there. I'll find out. Austria will not be there. Austria will actively cooperate to raise its objections in the formulation of these additional protocols. Only then can it be serious for the National Council to assess the positive or negative achieved in the negotiations, and only that is why we Socialists do not consider it serious to join this Green resolution today and to say no to it today, before we know the content of the additional protocols.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e11718	The next item is Mrs Haidlmayr's speech. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e11739	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is surprising that Mr Guggenberger has just commented on the bioethics convention for the first time, and that is because we have been discussing it outside for hours. In the context of genetic technology, it must not be forgotten that, particularly in the field of biomedicine, where fatal deterioration is due to occur for people unable to consent, there is a very, very great potential for people with disabilities, for sick people, for people with Alzheimer's, for people with stroke, for patients, for infants and for mental persons. It will also be possible to provide the disabled and to provide them. If you look at the texting of the Convention, you will find in it terms and formulations that will make you run cold showers over the back. To date, no word has been lost on the texting of this Bioethics Convention, on the fact that Austria has agreed in the Council of Europe. Not a single word was said about what one has to do with people who are not acceptable. It was not said whether one is willing to reveal these people in the sense of research, in the sense of medicine, in the sense of power, in the sense of the economy, in the sense of money and lobbyism. Ladies and gentlemen! If you were concerned only once about what it means to have to live as a disabled person with these criteria, you knew that we are approaching our history step by step, which should actually be the past. In the future, biomedicine and bioethics are no longer crucial to human rights, but human rights can be acquired through human performance and quality through this Bioethics Convention. In bioethics, no one has the right to human rights and their protection with his birth. In bioethics, only those who have the opportunity to acquire human rights can offer quality – quality in the sense that he is not disabled, that he is not old, that he is not a stroke patient, that he does not have Alzheimer's, or that he may not be at risk of lying in the coma. These facts, which can be found in the Bioethics Convention, will be kept silent in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! I and many affected people – and we saw it yesterday at our poll – are afraid of this future, fear that disabled people, disadvantaged people are no longer seen as humans, but only more as benefits or abuses for science. And it simply can't happen in Austria! I know that it always means that one is the criteria of the Bioethics Convention, the other are the human rights standards we have in Austria. I would like to add that we still have in Austria. Think about how many standards, high standards, we already had in Austria, which were already reduced and abandoned in the interests of the economy, research, in the interests of money and power. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein.]] This can happen in the same way as in the area of human rights. Mr Bartenstein! They just said: No, ladies and gentlemen, that is not true. - It's true. In fact, it is only necessary to think about how the environmental standards fall step by step. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: Which one?- Oh, my God!]] It is only necessary to consider how standards have shifted downwards in the area of transport conditions, and human rights standards will not be spared from being revised downwards. [[Abg. Aumayr: Food law!]] This is the great danger that disabled people face, and we do not want to face this danger by Greens in the interests of the disadvantaged people in Austria. The motion for a resolution that I have tabled today does not require the world of all the Members sitting here. In this motion for a resolution, which Mr Guggenberger has already read, I would simply like to ask Parliament to confess that it does not give up the protection of human rights and the protection of non-acceptable persons but maintains them. People in Austria want to know that. People want to know what it is about their human rights if they no longer belong to those who meet the requirements of performance and quality, but are no longer able to comply with the so-called norm human being because of disability, disability. Bioethics as part of the whole new technologies is a dangerous ethics. Bioethics has just shown us in recent weeks what is already possible with animals. It has not been kept silent that what can be done with animals today is very soon also possible with humans. It is a horror to remember that in the future disabled people will be erased or that they will no longer be given the chance to be born to have the freedom to live as disabled people. Again, it is tried to select between life-worthy and inanimate life, and the inanimate life belongs to people with disabilities. The Bioethics Convention in the form it now exists is the first step towards the need for disabled and disadvantaged people to re-examine their right of life. That can't happen! I therefore call on you to decide today to ensure the protection of incompetent persons. That is, I think, not too much demand. Every Austrian and every Austrian can expect this Parliament to ensure that the protection of human rights in Austria not only exists today but in the long term, that the protection of human rights is not put at risk by a bioethics convention or by other laws, and that disabled people continue to have the same right to life as those who are not disabled. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] We disabled people also have something to offer. We have life experience, we have self-determination, and we want to resist bioethics and bioethics. We expect our personal myself to be accepted by the so-called non-inhibitors and we, as full partners in this society in Austria, may continue to have our full place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e11813	Mrs Haidlmayr's motion for a resolution calling on the Federal Government to involve the National Council before a ratification of the Convention on Human Rights on Biomedicine of the Council of Europe is given sufficient support and is under negotiation. The motion for a resolution reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e11849	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I ask you to respect the rules of the game. 2 minutes speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e11874	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Haidlmayr has here claimed that the Council of Europe's Bioethics Convention is a spiritual protection. Disability and children would not ensure that they were, as it were, helplessly handed over to the scientific urge of doctors. That's wrong. I myself was in the delegation to the Council of Europe at that time, and the Austrian representatives of the Social Democratic Party and the People's Party, as well as the German Social Democrats and the German Christian Democrats of the Convention in the Council of Europe, have only agreed that this supplement has been added to the Council of Ministers' proposal, which provides that nothing can be done in these cases without the consent of the legal guardian, which is normally the parents of children. It cannot therefore be intervened for the purpose of an intervention in the interest of the person concerned without the consent of the statutory guardian. The protection of mentally disabled children has therefore been clearly ensured by this use of the MEPs in the Council of Europe.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e11904	There is a speech by Mr Pumberger. The remaining speaking time of the liberals is one minute. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e11922	Mr President. Federal Minister! Finally, I would like to say very briefly, because I would like to point out to Mr Leiner that there are not only negative aspects of genetic technology, but also special progress in medicine, and that will be the case in the future. So we really have to put a lot of emphasis on how to deal with this. The genetic engineering is to be handled like a knife. As with a knife, you can cut bread – or kill it. In the medical field, one can save lives, promote health. You can develop medications. You can explore tumor genes that expand prophylaxis and many other positive things for health more. In the case of food production, it is exactly the other way round. The need to produce food from genetic engineering is not given, and we must therefore ensure that the ban on release remains, that we achieve a ban on release and that we enforce a complete label for our consumers.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e11958	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We come to the vote on Mrs Haidlmayr's motion for a resolution on the protection of non-consentable people under the Human Rights Convention on Biomedicine of the Council of Europe. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree with Mrs Haidlmayr's motion for a resolution to do so. – This is the minority. The application was rejected. That concludes the urgent request. Short debate on Question Time 1687/AB
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e11997	We come to the brief debate on the question answered by the Federal Minister for Labour, Health and Social Affairs 1687/AB. The written answer to the question has been distributed. We are going into the debate. First speaker: 10 minutes, other speakers – with the exception of the Federal Minister –: 5 minutes. Mr Dr Kier is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e12027	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The question we had addressed to the Minister of the State, Mrs Bundesminister, was almost identical to that addressed to all members of the Federal Government, with a very small mutation that had been related exclusively to the Ministry of Social Affairs. The aim of the request was to find out how many contractual relations under the regime of the so-called contract regime – namely, § 4 para. 4 and 5 ASVG – fall, completed by individual ministries. We have also tried to ask a few additional questions about the size of the problem, the amount of administrative expenses and so on. We have been asked by all the ministries to answer questions, as has the Federal Minister. These answers have been very informative in some respects. Point 1: We had to find that the questions between the houses were very well coordinated. I think that's positive. That is why the answers of all ministries in the structure were almost the same and, in some passages, they were the same text, I think, because they were some legal questions. But it has also come out that in no single ministry was known or known as many contracts that have been since 1. In July 1996, the new regime fell under the new regime, which was completed in the previous periods. Put to the point: No ministry has been able to determine for itself how many contracts are likely to be covered by this scheme in future periods. Only if you know what there was in the previous reference periods of one, two, three or four years for volumes of orders that were now covered by the new regime can you estimate the situation or perhaps change the procurement policy and adjust it for the future. In addition, no relevant positions are provided for in the current federal budget laws. We also know from the answer to the question that, logically, because one law was created earlier, the other one was created, it can be expected, for the first time from 1998 on, that budgetary approaches for such contractual relations will be formed. So we have been able to find out from the answer to our questions that the Federal Ministries did not know what it was about with regard to their own homes. They have no budget approaches that enable them to award contracts under the regime of the contract agreement, so that the so-called share of the contractors does not have to be paid by the contractors, or the volume of such contracts has been reduced by one sixth, i.e. 17 percent of jobs have been destroyed there. This can be seen from the analysis of the questions, from each individual, therefore also from the question answered by the Federal Minister. It is not explicitly contained in the answers, but implicitly, and the questions were put in such a way that they enabled us to evaluate them when we had serious answers. It is a need from this point of view to note from what we have always said that, in this form, this regulation has led to the destruction of one sixth in the framework of the Federal Ministries by sticking to compulsory insurance instead of opening up to the principle of compulsory insurance. – Point 1. Point 2 – the matter becomes more interesting: We had made the effort to question all the ministries, and have therefore formed a cross-border. We have found how many contracts of this kind have been awarded in all ministries in total. It was 535 so-called works contracts – I always prefer this – in the second half of 1996. Thank you very much, Mr Oellinger, at the same time, also addressed a question to the Federal Minister and wanted to know how many works contracts of this kind have been notified to the local health telephone during the same reference period. This has also been answered very carefully, but obviously by other departments in the Federal Minister's House or without taking into account the fact that Members are able to put two or more responses together and compare them in the sense of a so-called control communication. It was found that in the response to the request, which was intended to determine the number of registrations for compulsory insurance pursuant to § 4 para. 4 and 5 have been received from the local health telephone, under the heading "Bund" Federal Ministers has been reported of 289 contractual relations. I would like to say from this point of view today: This legal rule leads to the fact that, if you ask them how many contracts they have concluded under the regime of § 4 para. 4 and 5 ASVG fall, the sum of 535 for a given reference period, and if you ask how many have been reported to the local health insurance fund, 289 are called, so that 246 float somewhere, on the postway in the widest sense of the word. In the context of this question, I would like to inform the Federal Minister that she is in a position to answer that question. The representatives of the Federal Government, who were confronted with the same question at the public oral hearing before the Constitutional Court, were unable to answer it – understandably, they may have been surprised by this question. I now call for an answer that we have received there so that she is not accidentally recommended by her staff to the Federal Minister. It was meant that perhaps among the 535 were also industrialists or companies that did not even fall under the regime. – I am very specific here: On the legal side, the very serious response to the question explicitly makes it clear that these 535 are only contracts which are not covered by the commercial regime and not by any other regime, but which are expressly and only free service contracts or service-like employment, i.e. those according to § 4 para. 4 and 5 ASVG. This delimitation has been made quite clean in the response to the question, and the difference of 246 is by no means explained by the fact that perhaps industrialists were present. I mean, the matter is so serious, because the people who are doing these things in the Federal Ministries are all legal, all conscientious, all are careful and yet apparently not able to do so, and so ask, to report figures that are somewhat equal to coverage. The fact that there can be a small difference by time-limit shifts, I would see that, but a 50 percent difference seems to me to be more than a need for information. I would even understand that if the Federal Minister said here today from the Government Bank: I cannot answer that in detail, I ask you to reply in writing in part. But I am interested in an investigation, because otherwise there may be no mention of the missing 246 contracts and the lack of abstinence status. I don't think so, but then there must be some other reason. I do not see which one, but I am of the opinion, the Federal Minister, in the case of supervision of social security institutions, would be the right address, therefore we have asked her to answer. The answer to the question arises step by step, that all critical questions - and indeed absolutely correctly - have been coordinated and coordinated between the ministries, therefore partly in the legal passages are correct, which I think is reasonable, and they even expressly refer to the question answered by the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs as competent. I think that is correct, and it must also be ruled out that this difference of 246 has been created by different legal interpretations in the homes. I can therefore be in a long expectation of what information we get. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e12119	Mrs Bundesminister spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e12140	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Deputies Kier! Before I come to the specific question, let me make some fundamental comments on those legal changes adopted in the Structural Adjustment Act last year. The background was that we were increasingly confronted with an escape from labour law that increasingly not "normal" but atypical employment relations were concluded. As a result of the use of contract regulations or contracts similar to employees, the exemption from social security law has taken place. However, this also removed the entire social security policy base and also called into question the solidarity of the insured persons in the social security system. I think one has to remember once again why this decision was so important and why it has become quite simply necessary: On the one hand, in order to protect those concerned who are covered by these types of employment contracts, on the other hand, also to ensure that circumvention is excluded, and on the other hand, to maintain and ensure the financing basis for social security for the future. I would also like to remind you that last year we said that these measures are a first step. We have been commissioned by the Federal Government to develop a concept to include all incomes within certain limits, from the lowest to the highest basis of assessment, in the social security calculation period. A study on this was commissioned by my esteemed predecessor, Mr Hums. This study will be available in the coming weeks, and it will also be the basis for the forthcoming political discussions. I hope that I will find the House's support in order to achieve this goal, also formulated by you, to include all income from work in the social security obligation. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I would also like to say that this procedure is not only for the benefit of those who are on the contractor's side, but also for the benefit of those companies which are contracting entities. In the past, this procedure has been a competitive advantage for those companies that have benefited from it at the expense of those companies which have so far adhered to the logic of our social security system. I think it was important, in the sense of eliminating this not very serious competition, and in the sense of the undertakings, to put these measures into practice. Dear colleague Kier! I would like to return to what you have said here in writing and oral terms. I will explain your question in the direction that you want to know how many orders in the form of contracts according to § 4 para. ==References====External links== July 1996 until the day of your reply to your questions in the area of my department – I say here: in the area of the Federal Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, because it was this team that was addressed here – as well as the subordinate departments, and how high the order volume has been. In my section, namely Mr Hums, three social security contracts with a total order amounting to a total of 1 689 246.40 S were concluded during this period. I have heard from you and also from a press conference that you meant that there was an IT technician in the Social Ministry in such a contractual relationship; at least it was communicated to me by your press conference. I tried to find this technician in our ministry. It has not been found so that I can and must stick to this statement and only offer you three such contracts. I would also like to refer to the 535 contractors calculated by the Federal Government. I tried to figure out here how to count the number of 535, and after my calculation it would be 536 if you counted everything together exactly. So we come to the same data to a large extent. However, it has not been known to me – and I therefore find it difficult to answer your request absolutely satisfactory – whether this number has been raised on a certain deadline or refers to an ongoing period. It is therefore very difficult for me to make comparisons here. Let me present it a little salopp: It is difficult to compare apples with pears, and if not the same values are compared here, it is also difficult to find the right interpretations and draw the right conclusions. What I would like to say is that it is very difficult to always carry out the last-day surveys with long-term interpretations. I believe that budgetary surveys do not have the power of statement that has a long-term view. I would also like to say, in principle, that it was our desire to get rid of old-style work contract regulations, that it was our aim to enter into real contracts of employment or to carry out contract contracts within the meaning of a general contract. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) You have also referred to Mr Öllinger's question in connection with the contract agreement, and I would therefore like to address it briefly. This answer is based on a table - I think it is known to you - that registrations on compulsory insurance have been made on the part of the federal, state and local authorities in a total of 289, and thus under the title of the Federal Government: ==References====External links== ==References== This number was reported in January 1997. I agree with you that there is a certain contradiction between number 536 and number 289. I have the following explanation for this discrepancy, and I believe that it does not really have a political statement and that it is not an assessment of the functioning of the new regulation, but in fact only a survey of the state of the art. It was agreed in principle that the resorts only report works contracts which are actually subject to social security obligations – at least the Social Ministry has done so. In fact, the resorts should also have included works contracts which are not subject to social security obligations, for example by counting contracts which are below the insurance limit of 7 000 s, or contracts between persons who are already socially insured as a result of this activity, or there is a so-called "real" contract not subject to the social security obligation. I believe that this illustration also shows that there have been different ways of doing so, and therefore it does not really have the power of statement that you interpret in it. However, I would like to make a brief comment on the labour market service because you have referred to it in your request. Ladies and gentlemen! They know that the labour market service is distributed out of the administration and can therefore also decide autonomously in the conduct. It is important for me as the supervisory authority that the AMS act within the meaning of the laws and, accordingly, comply with labour market rules. As far as I can understand, the AMS has also done correctly. Finally, let me say that during the period from July 1996 to February 1997, we were actually able to understand 32 000 applications for works contracts. ==References====External links== February 1997: 12 200 persons are registered with the local health telephone. You already see from this illustration that there is a fluctuation here, because, in particular, works contracts which are being carried out within the meaning of this report often involve very short-term conditions and the figures are therefore not really comparable. I hope that with these statements I could explain the written answer to the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e12255	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister. In the further debate, speaking times are known to be 5 minutes. Mrs Silhavy has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e12283	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Kier! You are right that Members are able to compare two responses to each other. You are also able to compare the requests, and your request has made it clear how many works contracts there are in the department and in the subordinate departments. Mr Oellinger's request did not address the subordinate departments. I think that might explain these differences, because the question is no longer identical. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] That is true, but the subordinate departments will not be questioned because of their worth and their value. In principle, I would like to point out that we have already dealt with the issue of 'work contracts' in this House several times. I accept your argument that reducing the volume of 17 per cent at the same time means less jobs, not quite, because we need to know what jobs we are talking about. Are we talking about jobs in which there is social security, or are we talking about jobs that do not include social security? That is why we have decided at all to have a contract arrangement. It is precisely you, Mr Kier, who know that it was a abuse that was committed with unemployed people by dealing with the employment contracts which are subject to social security. One of the most extreme examples was that years ago, when a trade chain wrote to its branch leaders that they should employ people with work contracts hourly on call, mainly women who are co-insuranced with the man. He is supposed to know that this is also happening. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] That was years ago. So it started and continued to take place. I do not think it is acceptable for Mr Kier – although it is your right, of course – to include social security obligations and the subject of compulsory insurance and insurance obligations. I think this is extremely polemic, and I would like to express it quite openly and clearly here. We know your position on this question, you know our position on this question. It has been shown to you several times on the basis of figures and facts that it is not an advantage for workers if we do not stick to this system, but it is a disadvantage for them. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That is why I do not think it is fair that you should address this issue with at least one sentence on every appropriate and inappropriate occasion. I am telling you from my position, Mr Kier. I would like to address another point. We have here in this House, precisely because we are aware of the problem which arises here and which will arise even more in the future, including by the use of telecommunications, information systems and the like, we have tabled a motion for a resolution calling on the government to consider how we can achieve a social security obligation for all incomes. I am very grateful to the Federal Minister for the fact that she has also used this question to inform us in this House that, from her point of view, these works are already under way, and I would like to thank you very much, on behalf of my group, for this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Kier! This will ensure that this House will continue to deal with this issue. However, it is also certain that it will be the Social Democratic Members who will be more devoted to this issue.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e12371	The next speaker was Mr Feurstein. - Please. 5 minutes of time limit.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e12392	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I have to admit that Mr Kier has put his position very objectively. I would like to point this out explicitly, because I welcome it when we say specifically what it is all about and then try to clarify the questions at this level. I am of the opinion that it is not possible to clarify the question of jobs in the same way as the 17 per cent has been tried to explain. If there is income from work, I assume that income from employment is also subject to social security. And if there is a social security obligation, social security contributions must, of course, be made by working contract income. So we cannot say from the outset that this has lost jobs, but it is a fact that we wanted to prevent and eliminate competitive disadvantages, distortions of competition. That was a very important concern of this agreement, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Secondly, on the question of the fact that only 289 applications have been made to the local hospital telephone and 535 contracts have been awarded. . I believe that this question should still be examined, and I also believe that the Ministry of Social Affairs should consider whether this argument, which has been put forward here, is indeed crucial. However, I would like to point out a third party, especially because such an objective argument has been put forward. I too have examined the matter today and have asked the Social Insurance Institute of the Industrial Economy. I have always assumed that, in the event of this new scheme, social security obligations for this type of self-employed income, these persons who obtain self-employed incomes will also obtain a commercial certificate and thus become subject to social security at the social security institution of the industrial economy. What actually happened? – In the first half of 1996, there were 19 000 new applications, and in the second half there were more than 24 000 new applications. This is a positive effect, and that is exactly what we wanted to achieve with this contract scheme: not that you just pay now, but that you report correctly on social security. This is what we have achieved, and I believe that 5,000 new social security schemes are a very positive aspect. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This means that 5 000 persons who were previously not subject to social security are now subject to social security insurance. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: And get a pension!]] That is, I think, something very essential, because of course they get a pension, they are insured, so enjoy a social security protection. One last point: We cannot prove it, but I suspect that in many cases such free service contracts have been converted into real service contracts, that the persons concerned have been included in the normal ASVG insurance obligation. Of course, we cannot see the figures, but I suspect that a whole series of new insurance relationships have arisen here. That is to say, even unself-employed people have now been included in the insurance obligation. These side effects that we intended prove that the path was basically the right one. I am pleased that we, SPÖ and ÖVP, believe in principle that we have to regulate comprehensively the compulsory insurance of income from work. We will certainly be working on this in the next few months.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e12442	The next speaker was Mr Böhacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e12463	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! I agree with you, Mrs Bundesminister, first of all with a few general comments on the provisions of § 4 para. 4 and Paragraphs 4 and 4. 5 ASVG. Mrs. Federal Minister! I have said on several occasions that these regulations have been condemned from the outset to failure. One has tried to press an activity which is an independent activity from the content into the corset of an insurance for the unemployed. Mrs Bundesminister, that would have been the square of the circle, and it has been shown that in practice this scheme cannot be implemented, that it cannot be implemented, that it cannot achieve what was originally meant. Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Minister has admitted quite openly here that one of the main reasons was to obtain more revenue. And I'm telling you one, Mrs. Federal Minister: More revenue – yes, but only in the short term. They forget that these works contract regulations also acquire pension expectations. There are many specialist commentators who are already saying that, if these regulations are implemented in a massive way, they will put the pension system in place. Ladies and gentlemen! It was originally always about an order of approximately 300,000 applications expected by the ministry. Also "Work Contractsman" Hums has always spoken of about 300 000 applications. So far, Mrs Federal Minister, there have been only about 12 000, 15 000, 20,000 applications. That means the system doesn't work. And there are many reasons for this: Either the contract will no longer be concluded, or the contracting entities simply ignore the provisions of § 4 para. 4 and 5, or one deviates into other legal forms – company, OEG, KEG et cetera – or you make yourself independent. Mr Feurstein has already rightly noted that there have been more 5 000 business licences. Your chamber officials in particular will be delighted: 5,000 new members of the Chamber of Commerce. But it is still to be said – and I know from my experience – that a lot of work contracts are being transferred abroad. Simple and simple! In times of telecommunications, it is no longer a problem to order software in neighbouring countries, thus destroying domestic jobs. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! If you write in your reply to the question that these provisions are one of the measures to prevent the circumvention of compulsory insurance in social security, then this goes by the core. It has always been like this: If abuse was committed, a full service relationship could very well be established with the existing legal regulations. Only one thing you've done now: They have introduced a reversing of the burden of proof with these provisions. It is no longer the social security institution that no longer the local health insurance fund has determined, in the course of the examination, whether there is a real service contract here or not, but the contracting authority. This is a new, massive bureaucratic burden for the Austrian economy. And if you think you have to say that this means people get into the pension system: This scheme will certainly not guarantee future pension insurance. Ladies and gentlemen! I only hope that the Constitutional Court will take a decision in the foreseeable future. As a member of the oral proceedings before the VfGH, I was actually shocked that the representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs were unable to answer questions from the Constitutional Courts. The speaker, Dr. Korinek, got it to the point when he thought he had been working intensively and for a long time on matter, but he still didn't know himself. [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] He is thus worthy of the statement by the former Minister of Finance and the German Chancellor of Climate, who has also said that he is not familiar with these provisions. – That’s why: get away with it!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e12527	The honourable Member is hereby informed of the matter. Peter. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e12548	Mr President. High house! Whenever this Federal Government sees a problem, it has a solution [[Congratulation of the Abg. Wallner]] She's creating a regulation. Great! She creates a new bureaucracy, and then we need the Constitutional Court to get her back to order. [[Abg. Sigl: No, that's decided!]] That's what's happening here. They approach the topics in a way! You think you're lucky, there's 5,000 new insured people. Do you know what you've done in the companies to bureaucracy, to frustration? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They say we have to do all that you have decided. But you have 5,000 new insured persons! Oh, my God, how proud you are! That's the pure pleasure! – This is the real point, ladies and gentlemen! The Minister of Labour still tells us quite openly that she does not want any work contracts at all. She wants a proper service relationship. Unfortunately, this has become too expensive, Mrs. Federal Minister! You have spent so long on wage side costs that the proper service relationship does not take place. The work contract is no longer taking place, so now we are going to the self-employed. Great! But there are the self-employed again because of the trade order. They prevent employment where it goes because you want to regulate in this country! How the magicians regulate you: Everything has to be regulated! From top to bottom, not subsidiary from bottom to top. No, we need a work contract arrangement. From top to bottom! See you in detail. [[Abg. Haigermoser: A work ban is that!]] We're gonna get you out of here! And if it goes into black-and-white work – this is happening now; black-and-white work is increasing dramatically – then those who go into black-and-collar work are the evil ones. Don't forget, ladies and gentlemen of the coalition parties: The more you regulate, the more attractive the blackwork becomes, and the stronger you turn on the control screw, the more the punch becomes. This is the reality, the You have to stand down once! I hope only one thing: that the Constitutional Court really goes here and takes up this nonsense. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Why, ladies and gentlemen, do you not have the courage to say quite clearly: We cover every citizen's income in all types of income. - Agreed! We capture it by the self-esteem of the powerful citizen. That's not why you're coming around! After that, you can define the basis of the self-esteemed citizen's assessment and define which parts of this self-examination basis in the sense of an insurance obligation – which you have also called for in a Freudian promise, Mrs. Minister; perhaps you have not noticed; They have talked about the obligation to insurance and have meant compulsory insurance – to be seen. And if you have the new basis of assessment on the insurance obligation, everyone in the social security scheme is to be assured of what he thinks is right, with a counter-compulsory force, Mrs Bundesminister, so that no distortion of competition occurs. This contractual arrangement, like so many of what you have decided in the last one and a half years, is the opposite of what you always say. You're talking about deregulation, you're talking about debureaucratisation, but you're creating a bureaucratic arrangement after the others in that country, and you're wondering if you've got a few self-employed people if you don't have employment if you don't have economic growth and black jobs are flourishing. That's your policy!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e12617	The last speaker in this debate is Mr Oellinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e12638	Thank you, Mrs. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. It is a pity that Member Peter has now introduced the insurance obligation. We would have to discuss enough anyway, but please do not have the insurance obligation! For insurance obligations, only one remark on the margins: Look at the Federal Republic of Germany, Mr Peter, or in Switzerland! There is an insurance obligation, there is also the pressure to contract – it is a disaster, simply a disaster! You have to take note of this too, because I think you can talk to me about it. You mean, in the case of insurance – especially if I only take the existing social security, but even if I would take it privately – I can choose it. Yes, believe Are you really, Mr Peter, that this is a great freedom of choice if I can choose between the Salzburg regional health fund and the Vienna regional health fund? Faith Do you really think that this would reduce costs if the Salzburg regional health insurance fund had to build an apparatus in Vienna? – But end with it! That was just a note on the edge. [[Abg. May. Peter: You do not believe in the power of competition!]] We should discuss the work contracts and the failed regulations on social security in the works contracts. For one thing the debate has already shown me: Mr Feurstein, I am glad that 5,000 people have been transferred to industrial social security schemes, and on the other hand, you must admit: We do not know how many of those employed as workers have now become employees. – You would have, I would have liked to know. In other words, if you make a regulation like the work contract scheme, you should observe it along the way in order to know what is going on. This is the problem we all have: We know the GSVG has changed 5,000, but what you don't know, and I don't know. How many of these have actually done a business-like activity before, and how many of these 5,000, for example, are still doing employment-like activities and have only changed to the GSVG because this is still better than having no or a bad insurance as in the contracts for work? – And that’s the real problem! I would have liked to listen to each and every Member here in the House, the debate – in fact it was rather an exciting one – at the Constitutional Court, to see the distress and torment of those officials, the speech and the answer to a law that they did not have to answer because they did not do it – at least not in the delicate provisions. And I can only tell you that the constitutional judges – I was surprised myself – have asked very precisely for the provisions of this contract. I cannot imagine, according to what I have heard there, that this work contract regime remains. For good reasons, this cannot remain true. For it is completely incomprehensible that I mean, for example, someone who works in a small employment relationship with 2 000 s and who also has a work contract of 2 000 s, that he now has to fully socialise both contracts, while an official can have a contract of 7 000 s without having to socialise him. There are still a number of scurrencies to be observed in this part of the regulation alone, but what is particularly disturbing to me about the question is, of course, the answer of Mrs Minister to the AMS. Mrs. Minister! It's actually clear to me... [[Federal Minister Hostasch is in conversation with some officials.]] Madam Minister, I would also have liked to say my opinion on this reply. [[Call Mrs Federal Minister! Hello.]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] Mrs. Minister! Just a comment on your answer regarding the AMS. You and I, we know, there is this AMS rule concerning the contract of work. I understand and accept – I must accept it – that you say that you have nothing to do with it, because you only have the oversight of the service. I would just like to say a slightly clearer word about this practice that the AMS will no longer grant works contracts to private contractors in the future. This, of course, is also due to the fact that these works contracts are now subject to social security obligations, i.e. the burden on the AMS, and these burdens on the AMS arising from the award of works contracts to private persons are nowhere in line with the AMS budget. But that was the reason why, from the outset, we doubted that this regulation, as it has been made, can in fact make a positive and meaningful contribution to actually bringing the persons who previously worked in work contracts and contract-like conditions into social security. Among other things, it was achieved by bringing them out of social security and partly without leaving a job.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e12698	There is no more word message. The debate is closed. The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e12720	The vote on Agenda items 1 and 2 was taken in accordance with § 65 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure to the time following the end of this question. We therefore now come to the votes on points 1 and 2 of the agenda. I will vote separately on each of the Committee's proposals and ask you to take up the seats. We first reach the vote on the draft federal law, which amends the working time law and the labour rest law, together with the title and receipt in 622 of the supplements. Mr Haller and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment relating to Article I Z 35. The Members of Parliament, Dr Kier and Comrades, have tabled an additional request concerning the insertion of a Z 3a in Article II and the addition of a Z 13 in Article II. The members of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, together with Mr Kier and Mr Comrades, have also tabled an amendment concerning Article II Z4. Finally, there is a request for a roll-call vote with regard to the vote on Rule II Z4 as amended by the Committee's report. I am therefore going to vote on the parts of the draft law, which are concerned by the amendments and supplementary proposals, in accordance with the classification, and finally on the remaining part of the draft law, which has not yet been voted on. Mr Haller and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment relating to Article I Z 35. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who support Article I.Z. 35 in the version of this amendment to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. This amendment is rejected. We are now voting on Rule I Z 35 as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever agrees here may give a sign. - That's the majority. This provision of law has been adopted by a majority of the Committee's reports. The Members of Parliament, Dr Kier and Comrades, have tabled an additional proposal concerning the insertion of new Z 3a and 13 in Article II. Whoever is in favour of this supplementary request by Mr Kier, I would ask him to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. This additional request is rejected. The members of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats have tabled an amendment which has the content of the deletion of Z4 in Article II. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of the amendment tabled by Mr Ollinger and Mr Comrades. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. Members Dr Kier and comrades have tabled an amendment concerning Article II Z 4. Whoever is in favour of this amendment, I would ask for a sign of approval. – This is the minority. This amendment is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule II Z4 as amended by the Committee's report. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of This request has been supported by 20 Members, so the vote must be carried out in this form. I shall vote by means of a vote, and I shall briefly declare the voting process. The polls that can be used are in your store. They bear the name of the MP and the name "Yes" – these are the greyish-colored polls – or "No" – these are the pink-colored polls. Only official votes can be used for the vote. The Members are called upon to put the vote on the urn provided. Those Members who vote in favour of Rule II Z 4 as part of the Committee's report may vote 'Yes', those who vote against 'No'. I now ask the rapporteur, Mrs Reitsamer, to begin the call for name; Mrs Applebeck will replace them later. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e12839	The vote will end. The officials of the house will now make their votes under the supervision of the scribe. To this end, I am interrupting the session for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e12869	I will resume the interrupted session and ask you to take the seats. We still have votes to take. First of all, I would like to announce the outcome of the vote. There were 162 votes, of which "Yes": 116 and No votes: 46. Article II Z4 as amended by the Committee's report is therefore adopted by a majority. According to § 66 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. With "Yes" the Members voted: Ablinger, Achs, Amon, Antoni, Auer, Bauer Rosemarie, Bauer Sophie, Binder, Brinek, Brix, Buder, Bures; Cap; Dietachmyer, Donabauer; Eder, Edler, Ellwall; Fekter, Feurstein, Fischer, Friend, Frieser, Fuchs, Fuhrmann; Gaál, Gartlehner, Gatterer, Grabner, Gradwelt, Großruck, Guggenberger, Gusenbauer, Hagenhofer, Heindl, Hlavac, Höchtl, Horngacher, Huber, Hums; Jäger, Jarolim; Kampichler, Karlsson, Kaufmann, Paufpüller, Khol, Kiermaier, Kiss, König, Konrad, Koppler, Koppler, Kostelka, Krammer, Herbs, Kröll, Kukacka, Kummer, Kurzbauer; Lacner, leikam, leinner, leashnak, Luke; Maderthaner, Maier, Maitz, Marizzi, Mertel, Mock, Morak, Moser Sonja, Mühlbachler, Müller, Murauer; Neisser, Niederwieser, Nowotny, Nürnberger; Oberhaidinger, Onodi; Perfuss, Parnigoni, Pittermann, Platter, Posch; Rada, Rasinger, Rauch-Kallat, Reitsmer, Riepl; Sauer, Schirder, Schrefel, Schuster, Schwarzböck, Schwarzenberger, Schwemmlein, Seidinger, Sigl, Silhavy, Spindlegger, Stampler, Steibl, Steindl, Stippel, Stummful; Tegic, Tichy-Schreiter, Drinkl; For the purposes of this Regulation, Wallner, Wimmer, Wurmitzer; Zweytick. With 'No' the Members voted: Apple beck, Aumayr; Barmüller, Bauer Holger, Blünegger, Böhacker, Brauneder; Dolnschek; Förlinger; Gredler; Haidlmayr, Haigermoser, Haller, Haselsteiner, Hofmann; Young; Kammerlander, Kier, Koller, Krüger; Lauter, Langthaler; Madl, Meischberger, Meisinger, Mentil, Motter; Oils; Peter, Petrovic, Povysil, Pumberger; Reichhold, Rosenstingl, Rossmann; Salzl, Schaffenrath, Scheibner, Schmidt, Schöggl, Schöll, Schreiner, Schweitzer; Trattner; Van der Bellen; Wenitsch.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e13037	We shall now proceed to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign of approval. - That's the majority. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in third reading for this draft to be a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is adopted by a majority of the third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Verzellnich, Mr Feurstein and Mr Comrades on Sunday and holiday work. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. This motion for a resolution has been adopted by a large majority. (E 46.) We are now voting on the motion for a resolution by Mr Haller and Mr Comrades on working time flexibility. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Haller and Mr Comrades on the practical limitation of secondary incomes in respect of Carenz money. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The motion for a resolution is rejected. Now we come to the vote on the draft federal law, with which a karenz money law is passed and the unemployment insurance law 1977, the karenz leave grant law and other laws are amended, together with the title and receipt in 623 of the supplements. Mr Hiezu has tabled an amendment tabled by Mr Kier and Mr Comrades, as well as an additional amendment by Mr Haller and Mr Comrades. Mr Oellinger and Mr Magistrate's request also lie. Main on separate vote with regard to Article 1(2) para. 1 and a request for a separate vote by the honourable Member. Article 1(3), point (b) of Article 1(3) 4 Z 2 before. Therefore, I will first vote on the parts concerned by the amendments and supplementary proposals mentioned and the request for separate vote, in accordance with the classification of the draft law, and then on on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been voted on. We come to the vote on Article 1(2). 1 of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign of approval. - That's the majority. Accepted. Deputies Dr. Kier and Comrades have tabled an amendment concerning Article 1(2) para. 2 Z 1, 5 and 6. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this amendment to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on Article 1 Paragraph 2 para. 2 Z 1, 5 and 6 as amended by the Committee's report. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The above-mentioned legislative bodies have been adopted as part of the Committee's report. We shall now proceed to the vote on Article 1(3). 4 C 2 as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of a corresponding sign. - That's the majority. This body of law is adopted. Mr Haller and Mr Comrades have tabled an additional request concerning the insertion of a Z 1a into Article 10. Whoever is in favour of this supplementary request may give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. This additional request is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign of approval. - That's the majority. This request was accepted. We shall come to the third reading. Anyone who approves this draft in third reading may give a sign. - That's the majority. The draft was adopted at third reading.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e13182	I shall now resume the negotiations on points 3 to 9 of the agenda. Mrs. Hostasch has spoken. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e13206	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to allow myself to address some of the debates on Agenda items 3 to 9 shortly and perhaps to give some information. However, I would like to begin by thanking Mrs Gatterer very much for expressing my respect for the formulation of this social report and also for the content of the report. I would like to extend this thanks to you. It's always nice to hear praise. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I would also like to underline what you, Mrs Gatterer, have said, namely that, in connection with statutory health insurance, the contribution-free co-insurance of 2.9 million people is one of the biggest family-related benefits that we can offer throughout our social system. I believe that this is really a very large, extremely important result of our social policy. It has been referred by some Members to care for care in the debates. I would like to inform you that a study by Professor Badelt will be presented to the public in a few days. This study was commissioned by my department with the aim of questioning this very young law, namely the Federal Care Money Act, on its implementation, to draw up first analyses and to draw up the first experiences so as to give us, in the further political decision, the basis for how we can further develop this law in the sense of the people in need of care, but also what possibilities there are – I remain at the care stages – as regards the caregivers and the question of their co-insurance or independent insurance. Mrs Gatterer! They also asked how many complaints have been filed regarding the classifications so far. I would like to inform you that some 4,000 procedures have been conducted or are still pending. Half of these were decided positively for the defendant, it stands for the outcome of the proceedings, for example, pari. On the issue of pension provision in divorce, I intend, together with Mrs Prammer, to consider in what form – at least in a non-profit-making case – we could be able to close this potential gap in our pension insurance system. Talks are under way. We are in the process of calculating models and, if we have concrete proposals, we will, of course, inform you of them. I hope that in this House we will also be able to agree to the conclusion of this last gap. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Khol.]] I would also like to point out that, in the context of Mr Ollinger's contribution, we have agreed that the social report on last year's report, that is to say in the next social report, also gives due importance to poverty. It is being carried out in my department on this subject very profound basic research. What we lack in the entire data material of our statistics – not in the department, but in total – and what Mr Ollinger has already referred to are data on the wealth, on what we sometimes define as wealth. It is certainly also an important task if we address the issue of exclusion and poverty, including distribution issues and with them wealth and wealth issues. Although we can refer to some of the documents of the Chamber of Labour, the data that we have been able to obtain from the previous scientific expertise is not very satisfactory. I also think that the debate on poverty always has to be questioned, which creates what forms of poverty there are and what poverty means for the individual. We really need to start at the roots and have a very detailed debate so that appropriate solutions can be found. On the question of the whole development of our social security law, we could discuss some points already in the previous question answer. As far as pension law is concerned, I would like to inform you in this context that over the next few weeks a study by Professor Rürup, a very recognized German professor, will be published which, as well as studies by Austrian experts, will deal with the future development of the pension system. Not least, just a few days ago, the OECD also had a very critical assessment of our labour market system, our economic system as a whole, but also the health system, and it came to the view that we are very good at large and have a tangible system. I mean, it's good to get a positive reference even from such a critical instance as the OECD. As far as pension rights are concerned, it is important that we create the basis for this pension system to be able to find out for the future the security that our people need, that is, high employment, a consolidated revenue side and, consequently, the opportunity to keep turning on the wheels that arise in the pension system, so that we can ensure the quality of this system for the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e13288	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Guggenberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e13309	Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Since the introduction of the care allowance, information that is wrong has been constantly disseminated. One does this because of lack of information, the other apparently do it because they link certain intentions with it. I would like to make a few clarifications on the basis of the social report we have before us. It is often said that at the time of the decision-making, we would have greatly estimated that the expenditure forecast at the time would run away from actual expenditure. – That’s not true at all! It is true that the actual cost of the care allowance is significantly less than that of the time when we adopted the legislation in this House in the course of our deliberations. – That was the important first point of clarification. Second clarification: The care allowance has a significant redistribution effect. There is a high level of benefit for low incomes. A look at the Social Report shows this very clearly: 93 percent of those who receive care benefits from social security earn less than 15,000 S gross per month. And do you know how much is the number of those who earn over 30,000 s gross as care providers? – This is a whole 0.04 percent of care providers, not even 100 people throughout Austria. It is very important to me to mention this in order to suffocate any discussion about it in the germ that this care allowance should be linked to income. I think that would be a pointless bureaucratic effort that didn't give us anything at all. I can add a final Ceterum Censeo to my comments: Furthermore, I believe that we should stick to compulsory insurance for fundamental reasons.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e13345	The next speaker is Mrs Madl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e13367	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I am quite right in saying that this social report is again very well prepared. But unfortunately, it's only snow from yesterday that we're discussing here today. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] [[Call:]] Because, unfortunately, God no longer reflects the social situation in which Austria is at the moment, which was the case in 1995. For example, in the area of unemployment rates, it is almost dangerous to deal with the 1995 figures today, as they are currently – and we should all really keep in mind – absolutely higher. If I read the comments, which are from "lightly rising compared to 1994" to "slightly falling from 1994", I must say that this should at least be supplemented by the note "and rapidly rising until 1997. This has been completely silent here! We know the 1996 figures already and partly also of 1997. I mean, a report – even if it is two years old – should serve to make sure that, when you read it, you know what its consequences look like for the present. However, whether it is about unemployment rates which concern men and women, whether it is the relationship between active employees and pensioners, whether it reflects the development of the real income of workers between 12 000 S and 25 000 S or whether it is about the development of the apprenticeship market: Overall, there are significant deteriorations compared with 1995. These trends, I believe, should have been reflected in this 1995 report – if we had negotiated it two years later. A report only makes sense if one can draw consequences from it, and that should be the meaning of the matter. But if these consequences then look the way the working time law has just been adopted and the labour rest law, which in addition to falling real income will also result in the abolition of overtime, without a wage tax reduction creating a compensation for them, then the progressive impoverishment is open door and gate – and also the barn door. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group! The president of the Chamber of Labour Oberösterreich, Fritz Freyschlag, has found something interesting in a March publication, which also covers my opinion: It's called: And less wages also means less purchasing power in the business cycle, means less economic performance, means poorer standard of living and less social security. This promotes radicalisation and crime. These are the logical conclusions. Ladies and gentlemen from SPÖ – and ladies, but ladies are almost no longer in the ranks of the Social Democrats: If you already have people in your ranks who produce something so reasonable that clearly recognizes the tendencies, I ask you: Why don't you act after that? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I'll tell you: They do not want to act on it because you have already lost the sense of and the knowledge of reality. You are no longer the employee party that you proclaimed 20 years ago. We have had to see this particularly during the last quarter of an hour. Thank God, too, the vote has been taken. If I'm talking about reality, I have to say, Even the figures in this report are not real, they do not correspond to reality. I'm just illuminating the unemployment rate: These figures are beautiful, because they are only achieved by various measures you have taken. Some examples of this: Many older workers have been removed from work as early as possible and forced into early retirement. These people are not included in the statistics at all! Those who are currently working in employment funds are actually job-seekers and find no work, but they are not included in this unemployment statistics. Or: The youth unemployment that is rising in Austria is being freezed and devastationed because someone who does not find a teaching place is staying in school without knowing whether he wants to complete this school or not. Therefore, the drop-out from higher education schools is also so high. Or: Also unemployed participants in continuing training are not covered in unemployment statistics. – All these persons are not included in the unemployment statistics, and the figures are beautiful. The logical conclusion is that you, Mrs Bundesminister, do not at all know the real extent of the job-seekers. The true number is not known to you, because the above mentioned groups make up a large part of the population. Or you don't want to know what I'm going to assume, or you'd have to take timely measures to eliminate these maladministrations. There is a saying that, as I believe, is also undisputed here: It says that unemployment is at risk of social peace. With the argument that you want to maintain social peace, you, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP – I remember the time before EU accession – have made the Austrian people tasty for accession to the EU. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But instead of limiting the already existing unemployment, the number of unemployed people has been accelerated. But that is not what this report is about; it does not show this trend! We are talking here about things that were still important two years ago, but now they are not. That is to say, this report does not properly represent the facts. He conceals developments and ultimately leads – we have just experienced it – to legislative decisions that reinforce the current bad situation for the Austrians. That is why we have rejected this report.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e13422	Mr Donabauer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e13444	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Social policy, like hardly any other area, is a matter that affects everyone. There is no one who is excluded from it, for in any In this way, everyone is involved in this development. I do not think we need to hide a comparison with this report in any way. Here it is shown that the social sector has received 683 billion schilling – almost 30 percent of our gross domestic product – and that is a huge achievement. Ladies and gentlemen! One can stand for EU integration, as one wants: In any case, this report is the first to provide information on the year 1995, in which Austria was a member of the European Union for the first time. This report also shows that accession to the EU has had an absolutely reasonable and good impact on our economy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This report shows the results of the achievements of all citizens. This report also shows the results of the performance of our economy as a whole. I therefore believe that we must thank the citizens for having taken this path with us. We will have much to do with them. This proud current account, which is presented here, also shows, of course, that not only has it been worked on in the ministry, but also that the interest groups have played a very important part in the fact that we can live and shape this quality of social policy in this country at all. I believe that this report also shows very clearly that the social administration with its 28 000 employees, with an administrative burden of 2.9%, has also worked very well. We can also say that we should also refer to this. If "competent critics" come out here, I have to say, they simply don't think much. I listened exactly. The reference to yesterday's "snow" is a very good audible flake, but the only thing is too little! I am missing – I was actually waiting for it – your ideas for tomorrow. If you say, on the one hand, "Snow of yesterday", then on the other hand, you should also say what tomorrow should be. I didn't hear from you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] That's why your criticism has turned out thin, Mrs. Madl. If you think that unemployment statistics are "successful" because people have moved to the pension, I have to ask you: What do you want? Do you want to make the unemployed in the pension or pension for the unemployed? What do you want? - Both of them can't go. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Seriality!]] [[Abg. Madl: They are beautiful numbers!]] I repeat: Both of them can't! [[Further calls to the liberals.]] But despite praise and joy, we also have some topics and areas to consider. First of all, we need to talk about how safe our system is at all, for tomorrow, for the next millennium. This is an important question that we cannot escape. We need to think about how the relationship of employees with pensioners, i.e. with those people who are in the rightful pension scheme, will develop further. For, ladies and gentlemen, there are 3 million people or something more on the employment side, applause and joy. But if we have nearly 2 million people in retirement insurance, we need to know that this relationship is getting closer and a great challenge for us. We need answers to that. We must also note that there are huge differences in pensions. I do not count them, my speaking time is too short, and you all know, as I assume everyone has read the report, what is in the report. But as a farming representative, I already have a request: Let us all forget – and especially you, Mrs Minister, because there is great hope in you – not our women and men in the agricultural social security in terms of fictitious exodus: 72,000 people are affected. We need solutions! We are also prepared to talk about reasonable proposals, not just to demand, but to speak constructively about them. We also have ideas about how we might solve this together. The question of whether we should have a compulsory insurance or an insurance obligation is, as I believe, no longer a subject at all. Let us just look where others have the insurance obligation, let's see how it is there, whether the citizens are happier, whether the administration is cheaper: withnothing, I can only say that doesn't make sense. Let us talk about other things, such as how we can secure the generation agreement, how we can promote employment policy and strengthen employment. Ladies and gentlemen! We have every reason to have a discussion about it. On page 7 of this report, it says exactly how everything has developed. What makes me particularly concerned about this is youth unemployment. According to statistics – I have looked at this closely – we are quite favourable. In 1995 – and this is a report from 1995 and not a preview of the year 2000! – with 5.9 percent, we are even top riders in Europe, in the positive sense. But I'm 5.9 percent too much. And I am concerned that this percentage has become even stronger. It will therefore be our task to address the problem of youth unemployment very strongly and to try to find solutions. A young person who, despite training, has no job, no job that doesn't make sense in life probably has little hope for the future and little confidence in society. We have to think about it, we have to work on it! We must also bear in mind that life expectancy has increased from 69.6 years in 1970 to almost 77 years. Although this is a very positive one, this positive development also needs answers, clear rules need to be made. So you see, there are so many things to do. I think we have to make special efforts in the direction of employment, because unemployment is one of the people's dignitys and we cannot see it! I also believe, as a Christian, as a Democrat and as a citizen, that we should not go back to inadequateness, but, as before, develop concepts together in the government and invent new models of how we restructure working time, how we create different possibilities of employment in our country, as we finally make the economy competitive for tomorrow. We need to know that we can only rise if we are competitive at world level. A positive balance of our economy is important! While compliance with the convergence criteria is also important, social concerns must not be disregarded. Ladies and gentlemen! This is a very important thing that we have to pay attention to. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That our group – our group with Gottfried Feurstein – has worked successfully for social policy, that we not only have the feeling of being successful, but actually bringing something forward, we need, as I believe, to tell no one, everyone knows that. We will continue to work together with our coalition partner in the future to strengthen social security in this country, develop social policy and thus work for social peace in Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e13526	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Peter. - Please. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e13548	Mr Donabauer! Now we just have to do it. You said exactly how you were doing. They've been in the government for ten years. Please, do it at last! Don't just tell us how it is. [[Abg. Donabauer: We are there!]] [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Today we have the inconvenient pleasure – it is really sad, but it is a pleasure to read the report – to hear the report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the activity of labour inspection in the field of Federal Employment Protection in 1994! - to treat. It's really weird what's inside. Obviously there are two realities in this beautiful Austria: on the one hand, those of the protected area of the federal servants. There are things that we entrepreneurs can no longer imagine in the private sector. It's like Cacacia, obviously it's an upper education over us. Mrs. Federal Minister! You're responsible for that. This report is full of abortion facilities and cloisters and shower rooms, i.e. important things. However, the amazing thing is that the report notes that the deficiencies are not being eliminated, not because the cooperation of the individual departments would not be there, but because this is mostly dependent on the budgetary situation. Amazingly, there is something like the dictatorship of empty cash registers. Obviously there is no such thing in the private sector. Because for these things one thing after another is decreed. How the businessman gets to the brink, that's what you know, he just has to do it. Only when it comes to our federal officials do we have budgetary bottlenecks at once. That's quite amazing. Don't you remember going through the world with two standards, with two glasses: once glasses up, once glasses down? I think this is quite amazing. It is even more surprising that the head of the board of directors is obliged to give an immediate opinion on the shortcomings, but not even to the 1994 report all the head of the board have delivered their opinion. This is what I look at when, in the private sector, one of the work inspectors gets a hit and then does not respond to the internal letter within 14 days. Why are you leading two realities in this Republic, Mrs Federal Minister? We need to keep an eye on the Workers' Protection Act. – The greatest bureaucratic insanity ever decided in this country. Workers' protection – I have said this from this pult several times – is essential. Workers' protection is important – but the way you implement it is really worrying. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] You take a production company, Mrs. Federal Minister – you are proud of this law, I know – who works with dangerous substances, a high-tech plant, a steel plant, as an example and shave all other companies over a comb: an insurance, a large tax consultancy firm, a hotel company or other service company. The same rules apply everywhere. You have kept this in your report. What did you write there? – I cannot say that I do not implement the Workers' Protection Act for 81 to 90 employees, because the budgetary situation is not after that. Only your own companies can do this, Mrs. Minister. With the companies in the private sector, you don't even care about the budgetary situation at all. That's what you're going to say, that the security officer has 86 hours every year – exactly 86 hours! – has to be in operation. Yeah, what's that? It is necessary to carry out an evaluation. A security officer who conducts the operation and examines whether the relevant rules are actually complied with there is necessary. But you require that he be present for 86 hours a year. So we're going to have a witness working time record, and then an inspector comes and checks whether it was really 86 hours a year. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: This is unbearable!]] We also need an operating doctor – 57 hours a year. What will he do in a farm for 57 hours? [[Abg. Dr. Pittermann: This is important!]] He's important, gracious woman. Right, he's important. He's important as long as he's needed. But it is white bureaucracy to require that he be in a farm for 57 hours a year, where nothing will be invested for five years. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] - But he must be present for 57 hours. He may not issue a health certificate. – In the meantime, he can treat sniffing, I have heard. What does the company doctor do in a service company where there are no hazardous fumes and productions? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pittermann.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the coalition parties! You can decide such things as long as you want. You have the majority as long as you are elected. But you are making the economic location Austria much more expensive, and you are creating unemployment in this country because it is no longer worth investing in that country. You have to take note of this! Where you are responsible – in the field of employee protection, in the Federal Service – you act in a way that drives private business entrepreneurs into the face of shame. That's reality. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] We have sent you two requests: On the one hand, the request concerning redecodification of the protection of workers, because we Liberals expressly acknowledge this within the meaning of the EU Directive. We have clearly said that you should present this by October 1997. And we have tabled a second request which has the substance that, if this new proposal is in place, the old insanity you have decided will be put out of effect. In this Workers' Protection Act, you have gone a long way beyond what businesses in Austria are willing to implement in the field of the private economy. They have been shot far beyond the goal: In turn, as the coalition parties do so often, they have chosen the most bureaucratic regulation that can only come to your mind. This will not only fall to you as a government, but unfortunately to the entire Austrian economy and thus also to the employees. This is because bureaucratic regulations on protection can also change and create unemployment. And this, unfortunately, is rising in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e13642	Mrs Pittermann is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e13663	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! In this very informative social report, for which I would particularly like to thank the official's office, I was particularly interested in the chapter on social health insurance, to which we are envied worldwide. With relatively low contributions – the average contribution of an employee himself is 800 S per month, a worker himself 750 S per month – great benefits are offered. The statutory health insurance system guarantees around 99 percent of Austrians much cheaper and more efficient than the American or German insurance system. For this high standard, however, the instrument of compulsory insurance is essential. An insurance obligation threatens our social health system. Competition in individual compulsory insurance, as some claim, would have negative consequences. Health insurance revenue and expenditure are largely laid down by law. The result: Delicious competition for young, healthy people – the favorable risks. The unfavourable would be expropriated or would remain an insurance which would have to increase contributions or reduce benefits. Germany shows how absurd and counterproductive such an undertaking is. With holiday trips, beauty farms, surf courses and the like, young, healthy are advertised, old, sick and disabled people are advised to change insurance. – We strongly reject this. Therefore: no deviation from compulsory insurance! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Nearly two thirds of the insured person make contributions, one third of the entitled person pays no contributions as co-insurers themselves. Private insurance premiums depend on the risk and number of family members to be insured, higher than the statutory contributions, regardless of the income level, at a lower level of benefits. High premiums, abandonment of risk carriers, less benefits are called the "beautiful words" that save insurance financing problems. Private insurance usually covers only the extra burden on social security, which is the main part of the benefits. The administrative burden of social security is much lower than that of insurance companies whose price-performance ratio allows a high amount of effort. The end of social health insurance of 2.2 billion schilling in 1995 was due to high growth rates in the positions of medical aid, cures, hospital and KRAZAF payments. The social insurance companies, except for the health insurance of farmers, who are supported by over 800 million schilling annually from tax resources, are eligible for their own benefits. Expenditure on sickness benefits increased by percentage less than expenditure for medical assistance, cures, dental treatment, medical care and hospital care. It is popular and unscrupulous to demand more benefits from social security if you do not want to agree to higher contributions. Measures of 53. ASVG-Novelle served to ensure financing. The increase in the recipe fee, a high amount of self-sufficiency, especially for income-weakers, multi-morbids and multiple-person households, was just as much a coalitional necessity as the health certificate fee – not our wish. A minimum linear increase in contribution would have been more socially compatible and efficient. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Improvements are desirable, desirable and necessary, as everywhere. We Social Democrats are as open to further developments as well as proud of our affordable, comprehensive, efficient social health insurance. Every disassembly we will know to prevent.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e13724	Mrs Haidlmayr has now been reported to speak. - Please. Speaking time: 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e13745	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The 1995 Social Report reflects exactly what we have been criticising for a long time in many areas. I just need to look at the area of disability and care. Mrs Minister, it was clear that the introduction of an additional level of care allowance, namely level 1 with 2 000 s, would reduce the amount of care for many people in Austria. The fact that this presumption is true is also evidenced by a massive increase in the number of small care groups, namely, Stages 1 and 2. On the other hand, the number has remained the same in the upper care allowance levels. Even the fact that from 1994 to 1995, access to care level 1 has increased by 68 percent – with a total increase of only 2% of care providers – shows quite clearly how high savings are already going at the expense of disabled people and that they will be even stronger in the future. More and more people are being forced to receive only more care money of Stages 1 and 2. The Ministry of Social Affairs is not interested in how they struggle with it. Disabled people who want to take advantage of living independently and self-determinedly may be less and less able to do so at the low level of the care allowance. If they need more care, they are forced to avoid hospitalization. That is why I have not at all agreed to the discussion, just as it has been conducted in the last few weeks on the subject of care, performance check, benefits, cash benefits. If you know, Mrs. Minister, that more than 80 percent of disabled and old people still live in nursing homes, then you also know that these people do not get a single schilling of their care money – apart from 562 S per month – and that these funds are in proportion to 1 : 1 to the stationary facilities. – If this is not a benefit in kind, what is a benefit in kind? Very few disabled people really have the chance to live with their care money there and as they want it, namely, self-determined and in their own home. The debate on the need to bring in or stop the care allowance at high incomes has, I believe, been inadequate due to this social report. For if you look more closely at him, you can see that only 0.04 percent of all care providers in Austria receive a gross income or a gross pension of more than 30 000 s in total. This discussion is not enough because any administrative effort to ask the ministers to the cash register would cost a lot of what savings would bring. Even in the field of employment, Mrs Minister, in recent years only negative developments have developed. It has been and will still be prevented from never fixing the number of unemployed workers in percentages in the social report. It's always inside. The number of unemployed people has increased. It is already 40 percent. The Federation still has 1,400 disabled persons, which it does not occupy. On the other hand, 82 million schillings a year are used to award orders to disabled persons who are not insured or who have any social security, and thus recover the money. In my short speaking time, I do not have the opportunity to address all the things that would be discussed and clarified in the field of disability. However, I do not want to mention one thing: The social report again mentions the so-called CD-ROM for assistance advice. Mrs. Minister! The report states that the CD-ROM includes, for example, the manufacturer of a product, the price of a product, the nature of a product and, for example, the product. – Sounds very good. In practice, these data are not included on the CD-ROM. There are no prices available, and manufacturers are hardly available either. If these data were stored on the CD-ROM, then the CD-ROM would need to be revised regularly. However, this has been saved. So this CD-ROM is outsourced money that we would have needed much more for other areas. It seems that this has done a luxury that no one is serving but has only cost money. I can also do nothing about the area of information, advice and support provided by the Federal Social Office in the current form. The care may be very good – but it is already over with the consultation. The Social Ministry has managed to re-evaluate the unemployment rate once more by outsourcing unemployed people into the so-called "assistance centres" because all the people who are being cared for by work assistance centres no longer appear to be in the unemployment statistics of disabled people. Mrs Minister, you know: Special programmes for training and job creation for disabled people have not been implemented. The number of permanent establishments and protected workshops has increased; the number of jobs on the free labour market has decreased. Mrs Minister, I would They ask – because it is for us disabled people to know how many percent of us are unemployed – that at last the unemployment rate is thrown out in percentages and not just said that it has increased. If every single person in Parliament had a clear view that the unemployment rate was 40 per cent, one would see that this is an alarm signal, something that can no longer be taken so easily. Mrs. Minister! I already see that it is good and can also bring a certain employment effect if you pay premiums to service providers, provided that they award orders to protected workshops. That can bring something, but: What is happening with this is going exactly in the opposite direction. Mrs. Minister! Premiums should only be paid to those companies which at the same time have fulfilled the duty of recruitment in their companies. It simply doesn't matter if you give job contracts to a protected workshop on the one hand and on the other hand you don't fulfil the obligation to hire in your own company. There is still so much to be said about this social report that I will also submit it in writing in the form of a request or opinion. I do not have the time to point out all these areas now. Mrs. Minister! I hope that in the next social report, we will receive a better and more clear report on the subject of "advised persons" than that which is now before us. You will then have the responsibility to bear. However, you cannot yet be responsible for this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e13814	Mr Seidinger. — (DE) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e13836	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Last remaining ladies and gentlemen here in the hall! The 1995 Social Report is about to be discussed. Col. Madl called him "Yesterday snow." Maybe she went looking for the snow, because she's not here in the hall either. [[Abg. Meisinger: That's not true at all! Another untruth!]] [[Abg. Madl is just entering the meeting room.]] Now she's come in! I'm glad she's here. Mr Haidlmayr said that under the Bundespflegegeldsgesetz it was necessary to operate with benefits, checks and the like, and she entered into the discussion here. I recall the creation, the discussion and the decision-making of this law, that it was precisely the disabled associations that insisted enormously on the payment of all the benefits in cash. - That's just for memory. The present report on the social situation contains data which are significant for 1995 but it also contains figures relating to the year 1996. The statistics and the comparisons that can be made are very meaningful. I would now like to look at the pensions. I would remind you that the decision-making process on the ASVG also referred to a three-column model, but in a sense different from that often used, namely that the three pillars of the State – the federal funds – are the employer's contribution and the employee's contribution. I think you should stick to it and remember what was meant by it at that time. Pension insurance in 1995 amounted to 253,6 billion schilling. Of these, 75 percent, namely 189 billion schilling, were raised by the insured. Expenditure of 254.6 billion Schilling has included 25 percent federal funds. These federal funds are certainly justified. A total of 3.03 million insured persons are charged; the federal funds are falling on average over the years. While 16 percent have to be applied for the self-employed, 71 percent are for the self-employed. The generation contract – repeatedly seen in the media as a conflict between young and old – should also be thoughtful for us. If you want to tell the boys again and again that they will pay and perhaps have nothing of it in the future, if nothing remains for them in the charging process, then I must say: This is certainly just as wrong as you say to the older generation that it now wants to enjoy only what it has built up without remembering that there is a right to safety in connection with it. If the pension burden rate, expressed in 1000 contributors and 600 pensioners, is on the rise – due to shorter working hours, higher life expectancy, higher retirement periods – then we need to consider how we can secure the system in the future. We must also pay attention to the following: Two-thirds of the pensions are paid to women, but women still receive fewer pensions than men – no matter if that is their own pension or widow's pension. There are several reasons why this has arisen, but there is a need for action for all. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The increase in pensions – and I think that should be made very clear – was more than 306 percent between 1970 and 1995. This is far more than the adjustment of the inflation rate, and this means that there has always been an increase in purchasing power in addition to paying off the inflation rate. An interesting study, a diploma thesis by a student at the University of Economics – Susanne Fischer – has recently been quoted. It says that the seniors have never had as much money as they do now and so much fun to spend it. Various communication strategies will then be developed in this study. It is interesting to note that the older generation has around 250 billion schilling available a year and that this 250 billion shilling is also brought to the man or woman, that is to say, being pumped into the economy. I believe that this signal for the economy should not be overlooked, because not only is young always "in", but also the older generation has a claim to be treated and respected as what it is. Finally, it is true that the older generation has worked out something that will benefit the younger later. This report states that everyone over 50 years of age can leave almost 625 000 s today and a third of this group even more than 1 million schilling. This should also cause the disciples to think about it. I believe that the economy also has to focus on what it owes to the older generation. I also believe that there is a certain sense of self-confidence and a certain responsibility among the elderly, that the older generation also needs confidence in the social state and that it is against uncertainty and against various other methods of panic. In the last few weeks we have been able to write headlines such as "The level of pensions will have to go down" or "Reform of pensions or chaos?" ...................................................................... I mean, you should always read the little print and see what's there. The Federal Minister has already pointed out today that the OECD has praised Austria in certain areas. But the OECD is also representing things that should make us thinkful, and it is talking, for example, about increasing jobs through low wages, poorer insurance, worse social conditions, poorer pensions and the like. These neoliberal views of the OECD can only be opposed to a very definite no. Our task is to make every effort and to exert all the strength to revive the economy and to secure jobs. Then we can also guarantee social security for older people. For discussion, for the discussion about "More private and less state!", which is always conducted – on the one hand, the capital coverage process, on the other hand, the payment procedure, which seems no longer to be safe, I refer only to experiences from the "Switzerland model"; perhaps on another topic there will still be talk about it. With the "Switzerland model", there are ten years of experience that are not necessarily among the successes that some always try to produce as such. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e13888	Mr Meisinger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Please, honourable Member. Are you coming out with 4 minutes? Let's try it.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e13910	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I am now taking a position on the social report on an area which has not yet been addressed, namely the obligation to work in relation to disadvantaged people. At the end of 1995, this group belonged to 66,087 people. Overall, this employment requirement has been met at 59 percent in the enterprises. Then it goes on to say that about 1,400 obligations were not occupied by the Federation of 7,500, that is, 81 percent. At this point, it is not entirely true to say in this report, because the current legal situation prefers public service, by having to employ only every 31 beneficiary disabled persons in the public sector, but every 26 in the private sector. This is a 20 per cent benefit, and it should be offset as much as possible. In addition, those service providers, who also employ disabled persons, receive a compensation tax per additional employee. That was about 53 million schilling in 1994. First of all, this concerned public service on the basis of the special advantage imposed by the legislation. This is where the socialist disabled speaker Guggenberger now stands as a truly dual policy of announcement, which can no longer be exceeded. He writes in the magazine "Domino", he would be against privileges for disabled workers under the Law on the Employment of Disabled Persons; in the Federal Republic of Germany, countries and municipalities, the improvement was justified by nothing and therefore had to be abolished as quickly as possible. I should like to remind Mr Guggenberger that we Liberals proposed this year, but at the time he voted in favour of us. I wonder, We now come to give it the best in a double-twenty way, in an ugly way, publicly in a journal for the disabled? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] He then hides himself to another demand by writing: We need to reduce the required number from 25 percent to 20 percent in order to bring more disabled people into employment. Member of the Guggenberger Group therefore calls for an additional 20 per cent burden on the private sector, something that we Liberals strongly reject! For the time being, we liberals demand equal treatment with the local authorities, i.e. with the federal government, countries and municipalities, which have a 20% improvement. This is to be compensated for to the private sector – and not generally an extension by a further 20 percent to 20 people. Furthermore, church institutions, trade unions, social security companies, semi-governmental enterprises and banks should continue to comply with their moral obligations in the future, and not, as is common practice, steal from them via compensation tax payments of around 2000 S per month and not posted. [[Complaints with the liberals]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! Where does the role of the public service remain, when almost all of the people mentioned are discharged of such an important task and say goodbye to the recruitment of the disabled? However, the bird was shot down by SPÖ-Klubobmann Dr. Kostelka in the political part of this magazine by demanding the anchoring of a ban on discrimination in the Austrian federal constitution under the title "That has always been a big concern" – in the usual double-duty and very loathsome manner: It's not an early April joke, it's a reality! – So he likes to have fun with this title as well. We know from previous meetings that this Clubobmann Kostelka, with a request to Rule 7(1), is the case. 1 of the Federal Constitution: "No one is allowed to be disadvantaged due to his disability." My colleague, Mr Partik-Pablé, has already held Dr. Kostelka's mirror several times and told him that he himself, as the chairman of a fishing association, allows disability discrimination in this association. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] He was repeatedly invited by the Member of the Partik-Pablé to stop this discrimination. But a clubman of the Socialist Party does not need that. Like the tank, it runs over the disabled – and makes only nice applications. That's a bad party policy! This is the custom of this federal government, of double-handed disabled speakers and a clubman who, although speaking beautiful words, continues to discriminate against heavily burdened groups. Likewise, these coalition partners today have behaved in the Working Time Act and the Labour Peace Act by allowing family-anti-family work through the back door. However, we liberals will not only deal with annual poverty reports requested by Members of the Oillingers, but we will issue a witness of poverty to this failing federal government with its Members and will keep them in the mirror of their failure. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] However, because the work of labour inspectorates in the Federal Services is also in a bad position, shortcomings have been identified and no improvements have been made, I propose the following resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] I call on the Minister of the Federal Minister for the Disabled to bring about equal opportunities for public services with the private sector as soon as possible, except that you want to continue in the old socialist tracks and continue to talk about the disadvantages of the private sector.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e14050	The motion for a resolution just presented is sufficiently supported and is included in the negotiations. Mr Sophie Bauer. — (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for his excellent report. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e14077	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, we have to give an answer to the comments made by Mr Meisinger. [[Abg. Gaal: Just!]] But he is not worthy of that, for, except those who have done a great deal for the disabled, he did not think of anything. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Today, we are also discussing the activity report of the labour inspectorate in the field of Federal Employment Protection in 1994. I would like to point out that the reviews have been carried out in the form of unannounced visits. A total of 843 departments were visited in 1994. There have been 2,171 accidents, two of which have unfortunately died. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Labour inspection has been used to protect the life and health of the federal workers. Labour inspectors identify job shortcomings and are also able to make recommendations or to take part in measures to address them. Labour inspection is intended to contribute to accident prevention with its experience and knowledge of employment protection. It is very important for me as a works councillor that the checks on labour inspection continue to take place unannounced, for in the case of a pre-registration of labour inspectors, for example, jobs where workers' protection is not guaranteed would be discontinued during the period of control. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] Ladies and gentlemen! It must be for all of us to create the legal framework in order to guarantee the protection of workers. I would now like to take a brief look at the request of Members Kier and Comrades concerning the abolition of the Workers' Protection Act. As a trade unionist, I am of course opposed to such an abolition, because it has been changed and improved for workers in recent years, and improvements must continue to be made. There were also positive changes in adapting to the EU directives, however: An employee protection law for the public service is still open. – A break from the existing Employment Protection Act is unthinkable for us Social Democrats. I would like to thank the responsible ladies and gentlemen in the Federal Ministry for Labour and Social Affairs for the good presentation of the report on labour inspection.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e14125	Mr Pumberger. — (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. – Ladies and gentlemen, please. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e14146	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This social report, which has been presented to us, is again very comprehensive. I am pleased that, in a request, Mr Oellinger has suggested that this should be extended to include the poverty report. We agreed. I have also suggested that this social report, since the Social Ministry has been combined with the Ministry of Health, comes out annually at the same time as the health report – but separately, not in a single report. I therefore propose the motion for a resolution calling for the long-standing health report to be drawn up in this context, that report which should have been drawn up for the years 1992 to 1994. Now we have 1997. It should, if possible, include the years 1995 and 1996 – at least the year 1995. [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The reason why I have now spoken is primarily the situation of social security schemes, which are located in the hostasch department of Mrs. Federal Minister. It has now become apparent that the entire load package on the back of the patients would not have been necessary because of us – and now please be careful! . have been presented with Turkeyn figures on social security payments. – Mr. former Minister of Social Affairs, you do not need to nod. [[Call at the SPÖ: He didn't fuck, he shook his head!]] It was found by the Austrian Central Statistical Office in the revision of the calculations that total health expenditure for 1995 amounted to not 227, but only 185 billion schilling. The costs were calculated and not in accordance with European standards. In addition, it has been found that false figures have also been used by the health insurance companies. We wanted to exert political pressure on our Members so that the cash register could justify their requirements for the patients: the health certificate tax, the increase of 0.25 percent for pensioners, the total savings regulations, restrictions on benefits, increases in prescription fees and so on. We were told that the health insurance deficit in 1996 would amount to 3.5 billion schilling. In fact, it only made up about one billion schillings. For 1997 it was forecast that 3.1 billion schilling had already been completed. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] That's what we've been under pressure. In fact, there is a balanced result, zero in 1997. I tell you very clearly and clearly that we cannot afford to face false figures in order to exert pressure so that savings measures appear justified on the back of the patients. [[Complaints with the liberals]] [[New condolences with the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to mention this, because this has not yet been explained by anyone in the House, and it is very important for you, Mrs Social Minister, to say that. [[Federal Minister Hostasch: That's not true!]] If it were not to be true – and I am not going to assume that it is true; it has been reviewed and determined by the Statistical Office – then I would kindly ask you to explain these figures to me, and to make us credible without any further forgery of possible processes that will not take place then. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Let me conclude by saying: Before social security benefits are reduced among patients and, for example, contributions are increased among pensioners, they should begin to reform themselves and save themselves. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e14232	Mr. Dr. Pumberger! For clarification only: They have read a motion for a resolution on the timely submission of the health report due. However, you have submitted a second request to the Bureau, which you have not submitted. Was that a mistake? [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: I forgot!]] - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e14267	Excuse me, Mr President. – The chip card is also not suitable for the recovery of the health insurance funds. She would be a billion flop. I therefore propose the following motion for a resolution:
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e14325	Both motions for resolutions tabled by Mr Pumberger are sufficiently supported and will be included in the negotiations. There is no more word message. The debate is closed. There has been no conclusion of the report. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. I would like to take a seat because we now have some voting procedures to take place. We first come to the vote on the request from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of this report III-68 of the supplements. Whoever is for the notice, I ask him for a sign of approval. - That's the majority. This report has been largely taken note of. We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign of approval. This resolution has been adopted by a majority. (E 47.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Pumberger and Mr Comrades on the timely submission of the due health report. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We are now coming to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Pumberger and Mr Comrades on chip card – a precautionary prevention of a billion flop. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We now come to the vote on the request from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to approve the conclusion of the State Treaty in 413 of the Supplements. Whoever is in favour of the approval, I ask him to give a corresponding sign. – Authorisation shall be granted unanimously. I adopt the unanimous decision-making procedure. We are now voting on the request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 625 of the supplements. Whoever is for it may give a sign of approval. - That's the majority. A majority of the information takes place. We now come to the vote on the request from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 626 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of a corresponding sign. – This attention is also made in the majority of cases. Adopted by a majority. We come to the vote on the request from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of this report III-32 of the supplements. Whoever is in favour of taking note of this report, I would ask for a sign of approval. - That's the majority. This report has been adopted by a large majority. We now come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Meisinger and Mr Comrades on the protection of workers. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We are now voting on the request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 628 of the supplements. Who is for that, I ask him for a corresponding sign. - That's the majority. This report has been largely taken note of. Finally, I would like to put to the vote the request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 629 of the supplements. Whoever is in favour of taking note of this report, I ask him for a sign. – The notice takes place in a majority way. Adopted by a majority. 10. Point Report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the Fourth Environmental Report (May 1993 to April 1995) by the Federal Minister for the Environment (III-16/351 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e14501	We're coming to the 10th. Agenda item. Oral reporting has not been required. We are immediately entering the debate. The first is Mr Magistrate. Sweitzer to speak on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and - Please. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e14532	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The report on the environment, whose figures are no longer the most up-to-date, is being discussed here in the House. But even this report, which is no longer entirely new and therefore not up-to-date, shows that, if we want to call it so, the nation's ecological situation is not as positive as we would like it to be. Austria is no longer the environmental model country, than it is so much expressed as it is repeatedly referred to by the government groups. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] It is undisputed that there has been respectable success in recent years. I refer, for example, to the reduction of SO2 emissions. There's a success, Minister. As regards the emission of nitrogen oxides and carbon monoxide, there have also been reductions, which are also recorded in this environmental control report. But we must not be deceived by the sequences of details. Austria is on the scene in many and essential areas of environmental policy. Essential objectives are not nearly achieved. We are not getting closer to them, even in part we are even removing ourselves from these objectives. Federal Minister! An example of this – I think this is an essential matter – is the area of CO2 emissions. Despite other efforts, the environmental report clearly and clearly informs us that we are once a year removing ourselves from the Toronto target envisaged, with an increase of up to 6 per cent per year. [[Abg. Outer: Except Upper Austria!]] Although we in Parliament have set up a very, very good and long-term CO2 Subcommittee, which has drawn up a number of measures, such as we can meet this development, and despite the recommendations of the CO2 Commission, which are known to you, Mr Federal Minister, we are taking a huge step away from this objective. Measures recommended by the CO2 Commission, for which there were a number of motions for resolutions adopted here in the House, are simply not taken. A particularly significant example is the situation of promoting renewable energy. To date, you have not been able to present and implement an appropriate approach. Many in Austria, which are focusing on this new type of energy generation, which also entails a large number of jobs, are very disappointed that you do not expect any measures to be taken to ensure that there is no appropriate feed-in arrangements which would be necessary for all those who are interested in the production of this energy which wants to enter this technology. [[Complaints with the liberals]] 60 sizes per kilowatt hour, for example, as they are paid in Burgenland, are just about a cock. The Burgenländer are still around 10 sizes higher than the Carinthians, who are said to get 50 sizes per kilowatt hour. Federal Minister! 50 grand for a kilowatt hour produced from renewable energy – this is a hoof, proof that environmental policy is simply not working in this country! And you have the responsibility to a good part of it. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The very, very helpful ecologization of the tax system, on which there is a number of confessions across all political groups, has not even been started in the first place, Mr Bartenstein, although, when you took up your new office – even more recently – you have called the ecologisation of the tax system a "central point" of your activity. The only result towards ecologizing the tax system – at least you tried to sell it like this – was an increase in mineral oil tax. Federal Minister! That may not have been what you meant by ecologizing the tax system! Similar problems as CO2 are those of soil and water. The soils in Austria are not only burdened by acid rain, but also have irreparable damage due to enrichments with lead and cadmium. Federal Minister! I think it will be very important to counter this development, to introduce a bar to it. Special cause for concern is the large-scale load of groundwater with nitrate by the use of herbicides and pesticides. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein.]] That is why I have no understanding at all that there are attempts to abolish the atrazine ban over and over again. Federal Minister! Even if EU regulations allow the use of atrazine, we would be well advised to distance ourselves from it because the burden on the soil is already very, very worrying. The control report also confirms the criticism of our liberals in the field of waste management and waste disposal. You and your predecessors simply did not get under control of the old load recovery. I think we have been able to show, in recent years, that you have absolutely no control over waste management, in examples such as the Austrian plastic cycle. The packaging regulation and innovation do not solve this problem because simply there are no prevention targets, but only collective targets in it. I am already curious about how you will comply with the law, which provides for some of the plastic collection to be used in this year. I am curious about how you will finally achieve this recovery, which is provided for by law. There are now more than 100 000 tonnes stored throughout Austria, but no recovery capacity has been built up. Minister! There you break your own legal basis! I'm looking forward to how you're going to deal with it. The criticism by us liberals of the packaging regulation has clearly proved to be correct. It is an instrument which does not at all correspond to the prevention of waste. Federal Minister! I would like to address one point very briefly, namely the area of future environmental monitoring. I can Do not share your ideas. The exclusion concept, which is obviously also desired by the German Chancellor climate, is dramatically weakening environmental control. Above all, the Federal Environment Agency cannot remain an independent institution if it is as it is your will. This cannot be in the sense of the Minister for the Environment. UBA Vice-President Peter is quite right with his statement, when he says that if one deregulates everything that is good, one cannot also deregulate the control. – I have to give him absolutely right. The situation arising from your project, Mr. Federal Minister, is extremely problematic, as the official section of the Federal Ministry, your ministry, is attached as a section there, and thus this control body will be directly dependent on the controller. It can't be! Or do you want the control body to depend on you, Minister of State? - If so, you have to say that here. The Federal Minister would thus fully control the implementation of his environmental policy himself in the future. Federal Minister! If that's what you want, then stand by it and say that. For us, this is a completely unacceptable idea.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e14596	The honourable Member's head has been reported to speak. - Please. 10 minutes of voluntary time limit.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e14618	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Schweitzer, I am surprised that you have found in the environmental control report the same positive reports that I have found, namely the reduction of SO2 and NOx emissions, and that has also been mentioned here. Thank you very much! I am less surprised – I suppose it was just a mistake – that you spoke about an annual 6 per cent increase in CO2 emissions, there was a 6 per cent increase in the period 1988 to 1994. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Up to 6 percent!]] But this is not very pleasing either, I admit, but so that we can stick to the truth and to reality. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] On the topics of renewable energy sources, electricity generation, which you have also addressed, we must say: The environmental control report shows that emissions could be achieved in particular in the production of electricity and also in the industry, so in this area we have managed a lot, although I do not know that these energy sources should be promoted and forced by us, also in the sense of technology development. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Are 50 sizes suitable for a kilowatt hour?]] The National Council has recently adopted a resolution on this very matter. The Minister of Economic Affairs was invited to present a new approach in the near future. This will also be done in the near future by the Minister for Economic Affairs. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Are 50 sizes an appropriate tariff?]] This was not the point of this motion for a resolution, but the question of what accompanying measures are there to support it. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany May. Schweitzer]] You can't answer that, you know that very well. On the subject of water, Mr Schweitzer, you have been silent about the fact that we have achieved significant improvements in the area of water flow. In the field of soils there are, however, high loads, but we have long-term large and good prospects, not least through the OPUL programme, and because the number of organic farms in agriculture has increased by 150 per cent from 1993 to 1995, so we have a long-term good chance to achieve good success in this area too. Finally, we were able to see a significant increase in the separate collection in the waste sector, especially a sustainable reduction in landfills without prior treatment. I mean, that's an essential point. From this point of view, I recognize that we are quickly moving towards a complete prevention of new old loads by no longer storing untreated waste on our landfills in the future. At this point, however, I have to deal briefly with a today's APA issue of my colleague Doppelmüller, which I not only find unfair, but also, in other words, inaccurate and unscrupulous. You know that Vorarlberg – you refer to the fact that Vorarlberg is currently crossing the Novelle Water Law Act – has a very specific situation in the combination of the size or vice versa of the federal state and existing residual capacity of the landfills, which are not present in any other federal state in this constellation. [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: Three private landfills!]] There are private operators, however, with liabilities of the country. The fact that the country is opposed to the loss of these investments is quite understandable in this particular situation. But there will certainly be an ecologically acceptable solution here, which will also be acceptable to the federal state economically. I am sure that the Federal Minister will succeed in finding such a solution. Very briefly to the Federal Environment Agency, because it was mentioned here: The Federal Government's budget programme for the years 1996 to 2000 clearly and explicitly sets out the breakdown of parts of the Federal Environment Agency. In fact, only a partial breakdown has been made, namely those parts which are quite marketable – without compromising the control mandate of the Federal Environment Agency in the remotest place – namely the laboratories, the technical services, the measuring equipment and so on, but not the control part and control equipment as such. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: This is distributed as a section!]] At your explicit request – because you mentioned this earlier – UBA's officials themselves remain as it is, only the retribution will be abolished. This was also the UBA's wish to abolish this by-law. So all in all, this is a battle for Emperor Bart. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: This is a non-wisdom-independent section within the Federal Ministry!]] Mr Schweitzer! This is a storm in the water glass, a battle for Emperor's Bart, because in fact only those marketable parts are distributed, which, in good work, can inadvertent, untouchable and in their work completely unimpeded, continue to work to the high-quality part of the UBA by hopefully continuing to work serious and professionally well-founded work. It's not supposed to be anything else. Here, artificially a dispute is started, a vortex is created medially, which lacks any material basis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e14734	The next speech is by Mr Mag. Barmüller before. - Please. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e14755	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that the first thing to note about the Fourth Environmental Control Report is that it is mainly a historical reading, because the report deals with the period May 1993 to April 1995, and we have already been in the spring of 1997 and soon. Member's head! But that has not changed the fact that what is here is what is mood and not the spring that we should expect. In this respect, it is certainly interesting, especially if you look at the measures that were still being taken at the time that the Federal Government was supposed to do, and some of them even say: Starting in 1996. We can definitely say today that this has not happened. In this respect, this is a good proof that, although these reports are quite good, they are well raised, well done, but also in addition to the environmental situation in some areas in Austria, they show above all one, namely the lack of implementation of the necessary measures by the Federal Government. In this way, I have already come to an area which has been addressed by the Head of Parliament to the renewable energy sources. Not only is this report clear that the use of renewable energy sources makes sense, but this is also done in the National Environmental Plan. But to make ourselves and say that we have adopted a motion for a resolution which makes sure that there is more or less thought about whether there should be increased feed-in rates for renewable energy sources is not quite the truth. For this continuation is therefore necessary because no legal regulation concerning feed has been adopted to date. That's the real defect, and that's also the harm. This can be read wherever renewable energy sources are concerned in the reports of the Federal Government. It says that one of the essential obstacles is the non-binding back-up tariffs on the public networks. There's something else that's actually striking: If it is said that we need renewable energy sources, we need – I only take out the wind power once – to increase the use of wind power in Austria, because it complements the hydropower output in seasonal volumes and therefore reduces the power consumption times of caloric power plants, then I do not understand how an EVN in Lower Austria can demand grid delivery charges that represent nearly 14 000 S for a wind power plant with a power of 650 kilowatts per month. Then, ladies and gentlemen, put yourself down here and say: My party colleague, Mr Pröll, head of state in Lower Austria – implicitly you say so – is just as I do for renewable energy sources. – But he does everything to hinder them and not to make them marketable. That is the truth. This is one of the problems we have in this context. You can also read in this wonderful report how important renewables are. You can see that energy efficiency has not increased over the last 20 years, but has remained the same. You can find out where the important areas are and where policy makers have to do something. But nothing is done. In this respect, this obsolete report is interesting because it is possible to read what the Federal Government has said, what it wants to do, but has not done. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] It would be credible, Mr President, if you were to make yourself and say: I am in favour of the abolition of network delivery charges; I will call on my dear colleague, Mr Pröll, who is also a member of other organisations that have committed themselves to the enforcement of renewable energy sources in Austria, and I will say to him: Take back the network delivery charges, or assert your influence that it is not handled in such a way. If you say that we have made a motion for a resolution, then you are hiding the voluntary increase in fees that have been paid and which are supposed to be covered by a cost, because, for example, environmental costs are not taken into account for many fossil uses, but for renewables very well. You should put this on the table and say that we actually need a long-term security of tariffs, because only that will boost this market. If this is not done, then all explanations per renewable energy source will only be able to remain lipged here from the pult made by your side. With regard to the deposition without prior treatment, Mr Head of Parliament, it is also clear that: Of course, it is up to Vorarlberg that this has not yet been done. You are also highly involved; You know that. I would also like to be responsible for storing garbage somewhere in Vorarlberg. I can then cash from the taxpayers, but I'm liable for this when something happens. That's a great deal. That's really great. On the one hand, you take the trash, register with the people, and then say on the other side: It's none of my business. If anything happens, the country will be held liable anyway. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Head.]] Now the Minister for the Environment comes and says: In fact, we need three steps to get to a waste dump that takes into account our groundwater resources, which ultimately also take into account climate relevance and which does something that has not been done so far, namely to try to inert all the problematic substances. Then he is blocked by his own party. You then block this because you apparently do not want to work for it to happen. Because the third step, the amendment and revision of the Water Law Act, is pending. Without this third step, without the amendment of the Water Law Act, this is in fact null and void. You know that. All advances, all changes in the AWG do not make sense if the WRG is not also innovationized. We are now in the same situation as in the Genetic Engineering Act. That's what it said: We make the genetic engineering law, and then we make the liability regulations. We already have the genetic engineering law, but we are still waiting for the liability regulations. It will continue in this area, too, if there is not at last the conviction here in the house and also the desire from your side to enforce it and to end it. They support your own Federal Minister. That should be motivation and not obstacle to you. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] A word was also said for the UBA. I do not understand that when it comes to making private competition in the market, it is essential to do so with a federal institution. I do not understand, either, when looking at these disseminating considerations, why it is overlooked that the UBA is particularly concerned with analytical and measurement areas and areas which cannot be dealt with by private individuals. I am convinced that many developments in methods must ultimately be located in the UBA so that they are really efficient methods. I believe that it would not be well removed in the private sector as long as we prefer end-of-pipe technologies. But we are still doing that. It makes sense for me to work with a partial right. This would also enable the UBA to use third-party contracts, but it would not make it solely dependent on them. I believe that if we want an environmental protection institution in Austria, which is really inexplicable, it makes sense to consider how we can make the UBA more efficient. But the reflections on environmental control in Austria, which have become known to me, will not be targeted, but will necessarily lead to a weakening and ultimately to the deregulation idea ad absurdum. And that's not what the liberals want. We are convinced that many tasks can be transferred to the private sector. We do not think that the state in this area in which the private sector is active is competing with the private sector and is actually absorbing money. We are in favour of making an environmental control which is also assigned to the Ministry of the Environment and which ensures that methods and methods of analysis are also developed, which can also be used in the future. That's necessary. But if the reports come to Parliament only two years later, Mr Federal Minister, it is true, then it is Wurst, what we are doing with the UBA. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e14845	Mr Brix is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e14867	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Actually, the Environmental Control Report and the National Environmental Plan should now be discussed together. I don't know why that was separated again. I think it makes sense for me to deal with the National Environmental Plan on the subject of environmental control report. Ladies and gentlemen! This National Environmental Plan sets out the guidelines of Austrian environmental policy for the next ten to 15 years and is thus the strategic planning instrument of Austria in environmental policy. The National Environmental Plan is intended to serve as a binding guidance plan for all concerned, with the authors stating that there is a need for fundamental environmental changes within a period of 20 to 25 years. Maximum resource conservation and minimisation of environmental risks in terms of sustainability are the objectives in all areas. Mr Bartenstein, Federal Minister, has said – and I can only stress this – that: Austria has presented this plan as one of the environmental model countries with this National Environmental Plan as the second country in Europe – after the Netherlands. For Austria's economic location, this National Environmental Plan is a very important instrument, because environmental structural change is pre-programmed. – This is what the Minister for the Environment has found. In other words, the available raw materials should be better used and environmental damage avoided from the outset. As a solution, the NUP sets out, among other things, the transition to renewable raw materials and energy sources, energy savings, the realization of environmental cost-reliance, the responsibility for the entire life cycle of a product and the better exploitation of primary energy. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Let me take out two areas of the NUP, first of all the area of agriculture. To this end, the NUP writes: The greening of agriculture provides for a wide transition to organic farming and a site-based natural creation of services provided by farmers. – I also believe that the changeover for organic farmers is an essential product incentive because it is no longer in competition with others. We are told everywhere that the organic farmer will have more future. Another delicate theme, which is also cut in the NUP, is the forest. In particular, it is important to implement what is written here, namely the need to do more in terms of wild damage. That means reducing the stock of the wild in such a way that the forest is no longer at risk. The second point I wrote out from the NUP concerns the water. The total consumption per capita was around 1,500 litres per day in 1991, with around one third of the total demand for industry and industry and one third of the cooling water needed by thermal power plants. Agriculture consumes around 6 percent of total water needs, and households consume 9 percent. Mr Kopf has just mentioned what we need to do in particular in the next few days, namely to bring back the rivers, the floodwaters to natural tracks. This would be very helpful to the water budget. What is related to the NUP and the Environmental Control Report is, of course, the instrument that this Environmental Control Report, which we also need in the NUP, is the Federal Environment Agency. On page 318 of the NUP: The Federal Environment Agency will also carry out an evaluation of the implementation of the objectives of the National Environmental Plan as part of its legal role and will present this assessment in the Environmental Control Report. Estimated Minister of State! My previous speakers have also mentioned the subject of the Federal Environment Agency. I quote from the "Oberösterreichische Nachrichten" of the 18th century. March 1997, under the title "Commentary – false ambition" by Karl Danninger: "The Minister for the Environment, Youth and Family Martin Bartenstein wants to take account of the government's severance by cutting down the best functioning and widely praised Federal Environment Agency. A part is privatized, part is incorporated into the ministerial bureaucracy." Ladies and gentlemen! High house! When in 1985 – I had these protocols selected and copied – the Federal Environment Agency was created by Minister Steyrer, there was no broad agreement. The representatives of the People's Party at that time did not agree, and they did not leave good hair in their speeches to this instrument so important to the environment, and they did not agree with enthusiasm. Today, the Federal Environment Agency, as we read and how, I believe, it is also to be heard, should fall victim to the savings fund. Federal Minister! We know that these important areas of activity can only be carried out by an objective company. The final draft of the Focus report is said to be already in place. Federal Minister! Let us have this in the discussion! Please show us this Focus report and what is actually there so that we can discuss it too. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Federal Minister! They call for the agreement to ensure that the Federal Environment Agency must be allocated. I am aware that you have written this in the agreement on the idea of savings. But it is not established anywhere that it must be so and so remain. There is no need to remove that office that serves the environment. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: Yes, in the budget programme!]] No, that's a proposal from you in the budget programme. Federal Minister! I appreciate you as very creative, innovative people. That's really you! That is why I know that you will have so much imagination that you will be able to redesign it and find other methods to take account of the spasm. But it must not be the Environment Agency that we all need! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I don't know why it should be. Federal Minister! I really ask you to put together with the representatives of our party – we have made the effort and put in place a list of proposals that we want to discuss with you. I believe that other political groups too do not agree with the distribution of the Federal Environment Agency. Let's all sit together and talk about it! Let us discuss this proposal, which we would like to present to you so that we can receive it from the Federal Environment Agency. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I think it has earned the officials who have done a job that can be seen. The Minister for the Environment has also deserved to have such an Environment Agency because he is able to operate well with it, and it has also earned the environment and thus the Republic that this Federal Environment Agency continues to contribute to the fact that we can continue to be proud of an environmental model country of Austria in the future!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e14924	Mrs Ing. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Langthaler. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e14946	Mr President. Mr Umweltminister! I would first of all like to talk about the current issue of the restructuring of the Federal Environment Agency. On the report itself, which we are debating today, I have already pointed out in the Committee that, like any environmental control report, it has also been very well done by its role that the Federal Environment Agency has always been very committed and well integrated into this report. We believe that, just as my previous speakers have pointed out on the part of the opposition, it depends, of course, on the concrete implementation of many of the guiding motives contained in the environmental control report, as well as on the success of the specific environmental policy itself. There are many examples, which have also been added by honourable Members Barmüller, especially in the energy sector, where we are far away from the fact that there has so far been an ecological and also economicly reasonable approach. The report itself, however, is also very neat from my point of view, and we will be happy to give our assent to the report itself. But I would like to devote myself to a much more up-to-date and threatening area, namely the restructuring you are planning. What is the situation, what is the starting situation? – The Minister for the Environment must save. Like his colleagues in the department, he is prompted to consider the appropriate savings measures for his place of business. In principle, there is nothing to do with this, although I believe that if we are serious about the environmental model country of Austria and a certain set of priorities – especially in times when environmental protection is now being pushed out of the state of affairs in the field of labour and economic policy – there should be no budgetary savings in the field of environmental protection, as we have the greatest demand. I would also like to make a motion for a resolution in this context. [[Quoted print version removed]] So this request, Mr Environment Minister, is not addressed to you, but to the Minister for Finance. It only makes sense, of course, if the Minister of the Environment is himself committed to the fact that his area is not being cut down accordingly, and if, of course, the Minister of the Environment points out first and foremost how necessary it is to have equipment in an increasingly important area, including personnel. That is exactly what I am proposing, Mr Environment Minister, in the area of the reorganisation of the Federal Environment Agency, namely that you use the alleged or necessary budget consolidation in your area only to simply break down your unloving jobs or to throw out the corresponding persons. There should already be an internal agreement between the ministers – there is nothing more precise about the specific budget creations. But what is very obvious and what there is to be an agreement on is that staff costs for the 1998/1999 budgets should be frozen at the 1996 level. We have looked at the budget programme in more detail, because such a demand itself is not contained in the budget programme. The budget programme itself contains a sum of possible restructurings of various ministries. I took the budget programme with me, Mr Environment Minister. This is, of course, a proposal for a partial breakdown of the Federal Environment Agency, as some 150 different proposals are in it, which are certainly not implemented almost all. We have also discussed this with the then Minister of Finance climate in the Committee on Budgets, and we have already debated this a few months ago, that in our view these measures are completely wrong. It is also included in the sale of support from the Environment and Water Economic Fund, which I think is the right thing to do, which has already been partially done. The other proposals, where a number of sectors can be liberalized, may also make sense in detail. This area, however, in which it concerns the control and the concrete review and collection of data, the privatisation or extraction of this sensitive area, is completely absurd. Power needs control – that is what the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, who is valued here, says, not only during his election campaign, but since then again and again. Power needs appropriate control, and such control must be independent, and that is why it cannot be privatized. You cannot simply fill out the most sensitive area that is obviously politically unloving to you. I do not suppose that you believe – as you would speak against better knowledge – that if you were to open up the analytics, the laboratories that are part of the computer, you would actually open up a market with which it would be possible to keep this area stable. This does not mean reducing the staff costs, reducing staff or giving up quality. How is that supposed to work in practice? Should the Federal Environment Agency examine the VOEST on Monday and go on Tuesday and ask if it would not be possible to carry out an order? Every person who has been or is in practice knows that it is actually more than difficult – not least in such a small country as Austria – to carry out independent control, but at the same time to those who are to be controlled to conduct studies and funds. It's not possible. That's exactly what you're trying to do. Let me say to you, Minister of the Environment, that... [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein.]] Then I ask you, because you are very offended, why you have not looked at your own place of business, whether it would be possible to improve parallel structures that exist. – No, you have immediately devoted all your attention to the Federal Environment Agency. That's not a secret, everybody knows: The Federal Environment Agency – installed in 1985 – is largely seen in the SPÖ area, if you want to do so, with a SPÖ director. All the Environment Ministers, you and your predecessors, are rather unloving in many areas, because they are not so controllable people who are still far too critical. You have your ministry in which, for years now, tough personnel policies have been made in the form that you are very many of your party not only close-up, but also members there simply. These you have neatly at the kandare and quite under control. So the Federal Environment Agency is not so pleasant, that is too critical, that must now be weakened. That is why I am thinking of you, because if that were not the case, you would have had to look at the Ministry of the Environment in the first place or at least in parallel. I have an interface analysis here, Dr. He has done a lot of work in which he has listed various tasks, both by the Ministry of the Environment and by the Federal Environment Agency. I quote specifically from this opinion: A transfer of all these various tasks to the Federal Environment Agency's own sphere of responsibility could relieve the Federal Ministry of the Environment of tasks, which in principle do not belong to the state-bearing function of a supreme executive body of the Federal Government in the system of division of powers. This would avoid parallel employment of officials with the same matters in the Ministry on the one hand and in the Federal Environment Agency on the other. Valuable valuable posts of the ministry could be saved. - Quote. I'll give Dr. Schaffer the right thing in that. There are parallel structures that you have built because you have better control of the people in the Ministry of the Environment. There you could actually see where there are concrete ways to save. Member's head has previously meant that this is also the wish of the staff representative. I don't know who you talked to. I have here an open letter of staff representation to the Environment Minister from a few days ago, in which it is said again: "This proposal mainly moves those units to the GesmbH which are specifically concerned with the implementation of environmental controls and information to the public and Parliament, i.e. the environmental control report, on the work of the Federal Environment Agency. Any such exclusion would therefore clearly be contrary to the intention that the functions of environmental control remain completely unaffected." It goes on to say: "The Umweltbundesamt is a young and efficient service with an exceptionally high level of motivation, commitment, collegiality and joy at work. In order to obtain this working climate and the resulting flexible and efficient work of the UBA, we ask you to give up in our interest the planned partial allocation." There are several such opinions from the Staff Office. That's a loud cry, Mr. Head of Parliament. So I don't know who you talked to, maybe just with the ministerial office. I know that this is quite right for officials or staff in the ministerial office. That's very pleasant. In their language it is then said that these red-greens in the Umweltbundesamt always do so critical work, and there it is very pleasant to take them to the kandare. The one area is partly distributed, or it is – as I hear the last drafts of your new law – actually a partial right on the one hand and a direct injunction to the ministry on the other, i.e. a rather in-the-ing-line name. Mr Umweltminister! If you are actually concerned with improving efficiency and saving, we would like you to look first at your own ministry before you take any measures to the Federal Environment Agency, where there are potential savings effects. We would primarily support you – and therefore this request to the Minister of Finance – if you were to work to ensure that the environment budget is not affected at all by budget cuts. I would just like to draw your attention to the fact that your colleague in the field of art did so, and this is also part of the budget programme: The stability of expenditure, but – at least if you look at the last budgets – quite increases. We would have wished for such a commitment by a minister for the environment. We also want an Environment Minister to work with all means to maintain independent environmental control in that country. I therefore propose a second motion for a resolution. [[Quoted print version removed]] So I would ask you to also let the company Focus, whose report we all know from the media, or another company examine your ministry to see where there are double-differences. We will then be able to discuss in a very detailed manner in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy where these tasks are to be made more meaningful: whether this should be done in your department or in the Federal Environment Agency. It will then be possible to consider what measures would in fact be necessary in the Federal Environment Agency due to budgetary constraints. But a critical institution, partly for party political reasons, that works excellently, breaks down and saves you nothing at all in its own place, can't do it. We are therefore announcing massive resistance from the Greens in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e15106	The two just-readed motions for resolutions have been properly tabled, duly supported and are therefore under negotiation. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e15130	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I should also like to focus on the planned partial distribution of the Federal Environment Agency, which is at the heart of the debate. Mrs Langthaler! I can calm you in two ways: First of all: A corresponding analysis and a resulting structural reform of the Federal Ministry of the Environment has not already been carried out by the company Focus, but personally identically by a preliminary consulting firm and has not only led to the reduction of two levels of hierarchy, to a clear reduction, to the significant savings of departments, to the abolition of referees and groups, but has also released 10 percent of our personnel capacity for new tasks after final assessment and evaluation. We will also continue this path in the field of the Federal Environment Agency. Similar structural reform in the youth and family sectors was implemented in March this year. I can calm you down: I am proud that, in the area of our employees, which is ultimately reflected in the results of the election of personnel representatives, party politics plays a subordinate role and that an independent list of outstanding staff representatives is a top priority in the personnel representations of our home. [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: Independent!]] It will and should remain. I can assure you that any red-green or other considerations within the framework of the partial distribution of the Federal Environment Agency do not play the slightest role, Mrs Langthaler. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What, however, Mrs Langthaler and Mr Brix, undoubtedly plays a role, is the fact that the partial allocation of the Federal Environment Agency between the government partners has been agreed and incorporated into the budget programme on a proposal from the financial unit and in agreement with us. These are not just proposals: This budget programme has been decided by the Federal Government and is binding on me. Furthermore, this decision-making and this position at the Council of Ministers meeting last Tuesday has been repeated and reaffirmed in agreement, Mr Brix. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to clear up with some misunderstandings. Mrs Langthaler, I know and appreciate you too much not to assume that you know better anyway, but let me say it anyway. You're talking about demolition and abolition, you're talking about privatisation, like others. – That's not true at all. A partial breakdown of the Federal Environment Agency means that those technical services of which we assume that they can claim to be on the market as a 100% subsidiary of the federal government – what else! - to be distributed. This company, of course, remains in federal ownership, and the current director, Mr. Struwe – he is doing excellent work – will be entrusted with the management of these GesmbH, but a second, a business manager will be assigned to it. I cannot understand that you are not in a position to understand that this partial distribution will enable the Federal Environment Agency in the future not to be fully involved in the rigid savings rate, which we are all subject to and will continue to be subject to, because it will be able to earn some of the butter on bread in addition to the constant nominal budgeting by my house with the acquisition of external orders. If it were still only a secondary department of my ministry, the Federal Environment Agency would certainly have to take note of rigid personnel savings. The partial allocation of approximately 70 to 80 employees will make it possible to create additional volumes of sales and value added and thus maintain or perhaps even increase the level of staffing. You spoke of enrollment by quoting an Upper Austrian journalist, Mr Brix, and you have quoted Federal President Klestil: "Power needs control." Where, do you think, is the independence of Director Struwe and the Federal Environment Agency, in which the high-level function is performed, greater: within the framework of a secondary service which was not at all welcome, or as Annexamt, equivalent to a section, but located directly in the ministry? – Self-employment is, of course, greater within the framework of this annex. It was the concrete wish of the employees of the Federal Environment Agency, Mrs Langthaler, to be removed and upgraded from the status of a secondary department. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: But it is not directly subordinated! That's ridiculous!]] You don't know, or you don't want to know. I say it to you here and add: If, by a majority of the Federal Environment Agency, there is the decision and the desire to remain a subordinated department, it is up to Mrs Langthaler and Mrs Brix, the Federal Environment Agency and the staff there to maintain this condition. [[Abg. Brix: Lord!]] [[Abg. Leikam: He didn't deserve that!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Doublingness is raised in the issue of incompatibility with the potential, Mrs Langthaler. Especially you, who have such excellent connections there, know exactly that orders towards radiation analysis and radiation measurement or orders towards water analysis are already done only to a small or no extent within the framework of the Federal Environment Agency, because of specialization. You also award orders to the outside. There is no problem of conflict of interest there. It is not the case that the Federal Environment Agency usually goes into the premises like an auditor, but the Federal Environment Agency makes environmental control and measures on the ground. These are objective and objective measurements. That's analytics. We're both chemists and we know what we're talking about. The conflict of interest is probably not a major risk. If it comes to doing so, I do not dare the employees of the Federal Environment Agency to once and for all not acquire a customer and give up a contract to get out of a possible conflict of interest. We must live every day to consider whether there is a conflict of interest or not. It will certainly be possible to exclude this in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I can assure you that there will still be enough time to discuss the issue of the partial distribution of the Federal Environment Agency. A draft law prepared by my house will soon be examined. I assure you that all reviews will be taken very seriously. However, I must also tell you - you probably do not know this - that excellent relations already exist with the management of the Federal Environment Agency and with the staff representation to challenge the future together. You are also wrong, Mrs Langthaler, as regards the savings achieved so far: In the environmental sector, more than 10 planning sites have been saved last year, with a total of two in the Federal Environment Agency. In this way, the resort has even taken on a slightly larger share of the necessary savings. [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: But these were retirements!]] I do not fully understand the excitement and appeal, in particular, to the representatives of the Social Democratic Parliamentary Club, to follow on this matter of the joint government position, which has now been reaffirmed. We will discuss this and are open to proposals for improvement. In a few months' time, we will have the opportunity to discuss this concrete legislative project in Parliament, in order to finally achieve the partial distribution of the Federal Environment Agency – that is what I intend to do – with 1. January next year to bring over the stage. But allow me once again, this basic misunderstanding, this misinterpretation, that "privatisation" is spoken of, although it remains a subsidiary of the federal government when it comes to decommissioning 100 percent, and that there is talk of "integration" in the ministry, if one really wants to fulfill a desire of the employees of the Federal Environment Agency and to upgrade the secondary service, which could also have consequences in terms of remuneration and careers. These fundamental misunderstandings – in order to express them politely – should have been removed in the context of this debate. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e15247	Thank you, Minister of State. Mr Oberhaidinger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e15274	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Almost all of my previous speakers have pointed to the positive results of the environmental control report. But I would also like to say that his creation is already a little behind and therefore he is no longer very up-to-date. In the field of energy, in particular, he leaves a lot open, so I would like to deal with the measures of the National Environment Plan, which is also available to us and is being debated today as a whole. In principle, I would like to say to the National Environmental Plan that I believe it is not only a guide for future environmental policy but also a huge opportunity for future-oriented technologies and thus a sustainable economic policy in our country. I would like to draw some particularly important points from the nine theses, which summarize the contribution on energy in the National Environmental Plan, because they appear to me to be very important for the measures needed in the coming months and years. According to the National Environmental Plan, the gradual replacement of fossils by renewable sources of energy should be sought, taking into account the criteria of sustainability and economic efficiency – a principle and a call that have certainly been somewhat lacking up to now. Energy efficiency must be increased with every energy use. I am thinking of the many possibilities in the industry or in the services sector, and above all in the main area of households. In the case of thermal use of energy, the use of thermal power technology is preferable as far as possible, resulting in a clear primate for power-heat couplings. Ladies and gentlemen! Furthermore, detailed studies show that CO2-related key areas such as transport and housing would be possible with reasonable technical and cost-effective effort and would be able to achieve a structure for the Austrian energy system that would allow CO2 reduction in line with the Toronto target. I believe that this is a very important statement and statement in the National Environmental Plan, and we should therefore take this suggestion seriously if we do not want to move further away from the objective pursued. This is partly reflected in the control report. However, the achievement of the Toronto target requires a significant shift in investment activities from conventional energy provision to efficient energy transformation and efficient energy use. Ladies and gentlemen! In this context, the Federal Government, the Länder and the municipalities have a stronger role to play in formulating the long-term objectives of energy policy, such as the structures for a sustainable energy system, and in creating the institutional and legal conditions for achieving these objectives. The instruments and framework conditions for a newly structured electricity economy – and we are in the middle of the discussion – for the efficient promotion of renewable energy sources, such as biomass, biomass, sun and wind, which have already been discussed and agreed on several times in this debate, and for ongoing negotiations on Article 15a agreements to involve countries and communities in this objective, need to be used optimally. In the cross-sectoral negotiations with the Ministry of Economic Affairs – that is the main point, Mr Federal Minister – our group is ready to support you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e15319	Mr Van der Bellen is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Please, honourable Member. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e15349	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister Bartenstein! They have dropped an stimulating keyword, so the word "operator" has fallen by the way. Let's play this through: Let us assume that there would be a finance minister named Meier – an inconvenient name – who, because of the need to save in the administration, one day comes up with the idea of extracting the audit and the tax warrant in whole or in part in the form of any social construction. We know that no one likes to pay taxes, that is why the tax payment must be checked so that the honest taxpayers are protected. That is why the auditors are still needed, but this area is being distributed. In addition, "Finanzminister Meier" explains to officials of auditing and tax warrants: Ladies and gentlemen, you know how bad the budgetary situation is; I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the amount of wages and salaries is frozen with immediate effectiveness, and from 1998 on you can only earn more if you get the necessary additional revenue on the free market. This means that, within ten years, we will have to expect a salary reduction of around 30 per cent if we cannot obtain these revenues on the free market. The taxpayers are obviously very well-trained people. With their know-how, they will immediately recognise their specific opportunity on the market and find that it lies in tax advice. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: A convincing scenario too!]] So what will they do? – Monday to Wednesday they make tax warrants, but Thursday and Friday they operate consulting and explain to their customers how to avoid paying taxes. That sounds like you're gonna admit after an absurd scenario. I am not convinced, however, Mr Federal Minister, that it is so absurd and has no reference at all to what you are planning with the Federal Environment Agency. There is certainly a common interest in the fact that the Federal Environment Agency also has control tasks to carry out. The difference is that the auditors always have to do with individuals and companies, but the Federal Environment Agency does not. This is also on the road from time to time, for example on the Danube to measure something there, or to check the air quality somewhere. This is admittedly a public asset, and it cannot be sold on the market, which is measured because there is no private demand for it. But it also has to do with companies or communities, so to speak, with individuals who are being checked. Do you want to make me aware that there is no serious conflict of interest in this regard? It's the same as with the auditors. How should this work, that on Monday, during the verification of compliance with any Immission or Emissions Act, a measurement will be carried out, and on Tuesday the same people will be introduced to get an order? I'm exaggerating now, that's clear. But you should look at the dynamics of the whole thing: Now the salaries are frozen, and within a relatively short period of time – with which I mean five to ten years – this office will either dissolve, or it will have to be much stronger than now, that is to say, over the thumbs expected to be 30 percent of its turnover, so to speak, going to the free market to survive. We will not see the consequences tomorrow and not in 1998 – I admit – but within a relatively short time, we will show what politics has actually done with the Federal Environment Agency today. That is why I ask you to document in any form that you do not wish to initiate such a development. Because what you've said so far can't convince me. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e15386	Mr Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e15408	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As the last speaker on the environmental report, I believe that we agree on the following from the very left to the right: The Umweltbundesamt works well, the Umweltbundesamt has worked well, and the Umweltbundesamt will work well. I would like to thank the staff for this. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Tichy Schreiter.]] I would not only like to talk about the form of organisation but also about the achievements. The services are prepared in an impeccable form in this environmental control report and are well-needed. I cannot understand statements made by some of the previous speakers, who said that he was outdated or no longer up-to-date and therefore no longer had validity. He's sure he's got this one. However, I am aware that the opposition parties have difficulty in reading out negative from this control report and attaching it to the government. For it is very likely that this German government's success report, not only with regard to sulphur dioxide values, in which, as well as by the opposition parties, a reduction of 81 percent has occurred. It is difficult for the opposition parties to disprove the statement that Austrian environmental policy is top priority if, as can be read on page 5, we are alone in Europe with a reduction in sulphur dioxide emissions of 81 percent. Ladies and gentlemen! We should consider how this reduction has come about. This performance is also a technological achievement, because it does not result from an end-of-pipe technology, as the greens often keep us from, but from a technology in which the sulfur content is greatly reduced, which ultimately affects the air. We also have problems that have not been disputed. As long as there are people as long as we pursue environmental policy, we will not be able to end these problems. We can only try to solve the problems as quickly as possible and get under control. But we're going to negotiate again each year. One of these problems is the deposition of sulphur dioxide. This deposition remains the same, caused by the import and export of sulphur dioxide. We will certainly only be able to solve this problem in the European framework by also applying our Austrian standards in Europe. Ladies and gentlemen! We will have an ozone debate in the House in three to four months. We will probably find that, although the precursor substances have also been reduced, there are excesses. We will have to prepare in good time for the fact that, only by means of dramatic measures relating to the carriage of goods by road, we will be able to avoid exceeding the limit values. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the groundwater situation. We have nitrate problems, that's known. But it is new to me, Mr Schweitzer, that nitrates enter the groundwater through herbicide and pesticides. I suppose you promised – or I got it wrong. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: I promised, yes!]] If you look at the report on the environment, which is also clearly said, you can see that one goes through the whole report like a green thread: agriculture as a cause. However, agriculture should not be eroded, but, together with agriculture, the ÖPUL programme should ensure that groundwater and surface waters also achieve European top quality. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e15451	No one is reported in the word anymore. That concludes the debate. There is no final word from the rapporteur. We are entering the voting procedure. I ask you to take the seats. We shall first vote on the Committee's request to take note of this report in III-16 of its supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to give them their approval to give a corresponding sign. – This is done by the majority. Accepted. We shall also proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Ing. Langthaler and comrades on the setting of priorities for environmental protection. In the case of your consent, I would ask you to give an appropriate sign. – This is done by the minority. The application is rejected. We shall also vote on Mrs Ing's second motion for a resolution. Langthaler and comrades concerning the Federal Environment Agency. In the case of your consent, I would ask you to give an appropriate sign. – This is done by the minority. The request is therefore rejected. 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the report of the Federal Government (III-8 of the Supplements) in accordance with the resolution of the National Council of 19 December 1990 on the January 1994 "Austrian Climate Change Report 1995" (352) 12. Point Report of the Environment Committee on the report of the Federal Minister for the Environment, Youth and Family (III-55 of Supplements) on the National Environmental Plan for Austria (NUP) (637 of Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e15544	We shall now proceed to items 11 and 12 of the agenda, on which the debate will be held under one. There was no oral reporting. We can thus get to the first word. It is by Mr Mag. Sweitzer. - Please. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e15571	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The National Environmental Plan, which we have unanimously noted in the Committee, has created an excellent instrument for future environmental policy in this country. With the National Environmental Plan, Austria could, if Austria's environmental policy could finally move towards a preventive environmental protection – the Minister also assumed in his press conference – and thus ensure the quality of life and the quality of the environment, as it corresponds to an objective in the National Environmental Plan. Austria could thus regain the pioneering role in the environmental field and lead to an ecological structural change. However, not only the National Environmental Plan, with its excellent guidelines, is necessary, Minister of the Environment: This also requires the measures mentioned there, those that we have already called for in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection in the framework of an application. We are calling for these measures once again today in the framework of an application. For this reason, Mr Schweitzer, Mr Aumayr, Mr Hofmann and Mr colleagues, with regard to the implementation of the objectives defined in the National Environmental Plan, put forward the following motion for a resolution:
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e15662	The motion for a resolution just read is properly tabled, duly supported and is under negotiation. The next speech is by Mr Kröll. Please, honourable Member. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e15689	Mr President. Minister! High house! In my contribution to the debate, I would like to look at the 1995 Austrian Climate Change Report in 352 of the Supplements. Ladies and gentlemen! The 1995 climate report, which was just quoted, shows in particular the increasing importance of climate protection worldwide. This has already been referred to in the previous debates from various areas. Austria – like all other countries – is deeply affected. The Toronto agreement has therefore lost nothing of actuality. On the contrary: In order to achieve the CO2 reduction potential within the meaning of the Toronto objective, appropriate measures must be taken in the field of energy, waste management, transport, industry, small consumption – house fire – as well as agriculture and forestry. If the Toronto objective is to be implemented seriously, the results of the 1988 Scientific Conference on the Sustainable Protection of the World Climate would have to be achieved, among other things, worldwide reductions in CO2 emissions. For Austria, this means, according to the objective of practically implementing Toronto's knowledge, a reduction of global CO2 emissions by 20 percent by 2005 in relation to the values of 1988, i.e. 45.15 million tonnes of CO2 emissions. – The Federal Government has committed itself to this goal so important to mankind in 1988. However, this can only be achieved if all responsible persons concerned act on a sustainable basis. Ladies and gentlemen! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) At the Mayor's Climate Change Conference in Schladming on 10 October. October 1996 on the topic of "CO2 – half" our successful Federal Minister for Environmental Protection Dr. Martin Bartenstein as well as renowned experts, at the head of Professor Dr. Bert Bolin of the University of Stockholm as Chairman of the IPPC of the UN and Professor Dr. Stefan Schleicher and other speakers, on climate change as a global threat and its impact on Austria. Minister Bartenstein pointed out, among other things, that the European mountain world would be heavily affected by an increase in temperature of 2% in the middle of the year and by 3 percent in winter means according to calculations by the Academy of Sciences. The impact on the Austrian Alpine region would be particularly serious: For example, the increase in rainfall in winter would be about 10 to 20 percent, the decrease in the duration of snow cover by 10 to 20 days per degree Celsius per year, the loss or impairment of protection forest functions, the increase of snow in higher regions, the expansion of dry areas, flood risk, slides and much more. A fact became particularly aware of me as a participant in this climate change conference and as the mayor of a community applying for accession: Climate change has a serious impact on all mankind, so for us and all our neighbors. The creation of an ecological balance is the command of the hour in the world – and hence also with us in Austria. Everything must be done to combat the causes and consequences of climate change. And Austria has been a pioneer in all areas of environmental protection in Europe. We must continue to exercise all the competences internationally – worldwide in Europe – in order to achieve the international objectives. The Federal Government, the Länder and the municipalities must cooperate with the economic sector, the energy supply companies and the agricultural and forestry businesses. We must continue our efforts and continue to raise the awareness of our citizens for this important objective: We must draw their attention to their responsibility for the generations to come, because it is about our common future! High house! The knowledge from these and other meetings can therefore only say: Everyone has to do something on the ground in order to achieve the common objectives. In order to achieve the objectives set out in the 1992 local agenda 21 of Rio with regard to the halving of the greenhouse effect by 2010, everyone has to do his own homework. An appropriate and effective contribution is the climate alliance of the municipalities in Austria and worldwide. With a view to a worldwide partnership of the municipalities, 153 Austrian communities have now committed themselves to joining this idea and actively doing work for it. 153 decisions were taken in the councils on the basis of the knowledge of the importance of the sustainability of policy for our future. Fortunately, there are many community competitions and models for corresponding projects. On the topic of "CO2 – half" a specific municipal competition was carried out in 1996. 45 projects were submitted, and a well-assembled jury had no easy way to identify the best candidates. Separated according to their size, the following municipalities have been declared federal winners: Graz, Linz, Schwaz in Tirol, Laussa in Upper Austria, Villach in Carinthia, Tamsweg in Salzburg, Wolkersdorf in Lower Austria. In addition, there were a large number of project winners, who achieved recognition awards in the area of the municipalities, but also in combination with private individuals. In conclusion: What is your own contribution in your own case? – Ladies and gentlemen, very much! Ladies and gentlemen! Schladming – as I already said – applied during this conference for the admission as the youngest small town in Austria to the Climate Alliance. We were able to express our will there, and we had the opportunity to demonstrate our accession in the presence of Minister Bartenstein. Our efforts were accepted, and we were sent to the International Office of the Third World. ==References== This is one aspect: Putting on the strength of will to make the decision that all are working together in the municipal council, really all: the economy, the farmers, the teachers, the unself-employed, the women, the boys and the elderly, for that is a great common goal. What do we want to do, and what do we want to achieve? – district heating, the use of renewable energy forms in conjunction with 51 percent of regional farmers and the forestry industry and 49 percent of district heating company, a subsidiary of STEWEAG, which provides the know-how. The community brings the reason. I hope, Minister of State, that this example will prove that we must not only wait for what is happening in high policy so that the objectives are achieved, but also that we can make decisive contributions on the ground. If it succeeds – which I very much hope – to have this by the municipal council until the summer when, in a pioneering role, the municipal community provides the most important connections, although today it is not yet possible to work cost-effectively, as with the usual oil firing, then in reliance on the right environmental policy of the Federal Government, on the right decisions of this House, also as regards framework programmes and taxation of non-renewable energy. We see this as an investment for the future. With long-term consideration, this is already the better solution, especially for our children, and this type of energy generation is also more useful. I therefore believe that we are making an important contribution with 6 000 tonnes of less CO2 in the Schladminger airspace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e15765	In view of the Minutes, I would like to call for an order for the use of the word "loyal" by Mrs Aumayr. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] The next speech is by Mr Mag. Barmüller before. Please, honourable Member. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. [[Further calls to the liberals.]] It is not necessary to comment on the Bureau's decisions. Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Barmüller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e15809	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As two agenda items are dealt with under one, I would like first of all to say briefly to the 1995 Austrian Climate Change Report that it bears the same lack as the Fourth Environmental Control Report: It actually concerns the year 1995 and has already been negotiated here in the House in mid-October 1996, namely in the Committee on the Environment. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] However, Mr Haigermoser was not present there – which has increased the quality of the discussion and reduced its length of time. [[Cheerfulness and applause at the Liberal Forum as well as at SPÖ.]] However, this report is only being discussed here in the National Council. It is true that Mr Kröll, who has called for the cooperation of all here in order to bring about sustainable changes. But it is true, ladies and gentlemen, and this is precisely what Mr Kröll, who is mayor of Schladming, knows, too, that there must also be a call for political action in this House. It is good that there are appropriate initiatives in the municipalities, it is good that there is investment in biomass plants. However, there must finally be provision here in the House for the fact that, for example, there are road rights not for gas pipelines, Mr Deputies, but for biomass pipelines. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Haigermoser and Abg. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] Mr Auer, unfortunately I cannot understand you at all because Member Haigermoser is always calling in. [[Abg. Auer: What do you mean by yourself?]] If you insist that I have connected a photovoltaic system directly in my Vienna apartment, I would like to take this note. I think this makes sense, and if you want, I'd like to give you a little "solar dwarf" that you can use quite cheaply! Come on. You will then be able to prove to me that you too want to be active in this area! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is true, of course, that with the hot air produced here in plenary by the government in the field of renewable energy sources, the house could easily be heated. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wormitzer.]] Mr Wurmitzer! We have not really shown ourselves in this regard. In this House, we have not created the framework conditions for really helping renewable energy sources to break through. This is also evident in the climate report. For it is undisputed – and the Federal Minister has clearly said this: The Toronto target can be achieved, all these reduction measures can be implemented. This can, however, not be started. The Federal Minister will also have to take note at the end of the day that the UBA has rightly criticized him, if it is said in one of his broadcasts: It is true that the objectives can be achieved, and it is also true that at certain times we have come to a reduction in CO2. However, the reason for this was rather that, for example, energy-intensive companies have changed, or that industrial plants have emigrated. This has ultimately resulted in a CO2 reduction, but not in the political framework created. Ladies and gentlemen! I come here to the National Environmental Plan, which was actually praised to death here in the house. However, this report really points to the future, and all the main areas of problem are already described in it. However, there is something missing: There are no ecological guidelines that can be incorporated into the legislative process, although you had to take note of the government factions in July 1996 that the Federal Government has said: This convolut is the guiding principle of our ecological efforts. – That was in July 1996! However, there has already been a clear sentence in the Coalition Party Convention in March last year, which is to be read on page 46 in Capital X, Environment: "The ecological guidelines set out in the National Environmental Plan shall be taken into account." . You have clearly and clearly stated that the environmental guidelines set out in this report must be taken into account. Ladies and gentlemen! With this in mind, it is interesting that no single guideline is formulated in this whole report. There are no guidelines in the environmental plan! There is a problem description and projects for measures to be implemented. However, the basic ecological line is not disclosed. In three subcommittee meetings on this report, it was not possible to draw up an ecological guideline. [[Abg. Wormitzer: This is wrong!]] Mr Wurmitzer! You know that! It is now also in this motion for a resolution which you have attached to the report that the Federal Government is being asked to adapt to the guidelines set out in the NUP in its action and planning. – These do not exist, however, Mr Wurmitzer. They're not formulated anywhere! My aim is to define the ecological guidelines in the Committee and to definitely include them in the plan... [[Abg. Wurmitzer: You weren't in the committee!]] Of course I was in all subcommittee meetings! Mr Wurmitzer. And that meetings of the Committee on the Environment, at all committee meetings should be held in such a way that the opposition has difficulty taking part in them, is a fact which you should not mention here. Because this is not cooperative by you and does not serve an objective problem solution either. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wormitzer.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is indisputable – and I say that only for the sake of completeness – that these environmental guidelines need to be formulated if the projects relating to the National Environmental Plan are to be seriously considered. You know that, for example, Mr Schleicher, who has already referred to Mr Kröll, said clearly at that subcommittee meeting, which concerned the various working groups, that sustainable implementation strategies must be formulated, since all the proposals are in common that they do not have a precise objective. And Mr. University Professor Moser said: Technological sustainability is possible, but it is not politically possible. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say this again – and in particular Mr Haigermoser has also said this – so that he can learn something from this debate: We need ecological guidelines that are formulated in a deciduous manner so that they can really be incorporated into the legislative process. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Why have you been selected in the Styria?]] That is why we will have two more motions for resolutions tabled as self-employed motions for resolutions. They relate precisely to the formulation of those ecological guidelines that we miss in the National Environmental Plan. I hope that we will still have the opportunity to talk about it in the Committee on the Environment. Again: You will not be able to allow this 1.34 kg paper, which includes the National Environmental Plan, to be incorporated into the legislative process if you do not have the courage to actually formulate the ecological guidelines! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e15929	Mrs Tegischer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e15950	Mr President. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make a few comments on the 1995 Austrian Climate Change Report. The global increase in temperature is clearly caused by human activities. I would like to stress three substances that cause the greenhouse effect – mentioned already in the report of the CO2 Subcommittee of March 1993 –: The overall dimension of the greenhouse effect is nearly 50 percent CO2 produced by transport and small consumers, 30.9% by methane, 56 percent by agriculture, but also by waste and waste water, and 20 percent by halogenated hydrocarbons, which are again responsible for transport, but also for non-incinerated emissions mainly from agricultural soil management. I would now like to address the individual contaminants and start with the small consumers: Many measures against CO2 emissions have already been implemented. Nevertheless, there is still a need for action. We need meaningful support at all levels, including at local and regional level, especially for thermal insulation, which creates jobs, for the use of biomass, for the introduction of electricity from renewable energy sources into the public network. We must do everything we can to develop alternative forms of energy from renewable sources and to create a fair opportunity for effective energy saving measures. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to mention certain heating technologies: For example, a hacking heat is amortized in seven years. The operating costs are only 60 to 80 percent of that of oil heating. An interesting variant is also the combination of biomass and solar energy, using biomass during the cold season and the solar energy can bring 70 percent of the necessary energy for hot water and heating. Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is particularly important to note that it would be necessary to bring about a uniform system of support in all the federal states. Builders who plan energy-consciously should also be more favourably encouraged by housing development. The subject of transport: As mentioned above, the traffic is the main cause of CO2 emissions: It is therefore necessary to improve the expansion of the apparent infrastructure. An intelligent, meaningful transport policy must be pursued through measures in spatial planning that contribute to the reduction of transport movements. Short transport routes and local decentralized facilities will also be created. Furthermore, the trans-European rail network should be expanded, and there should be a restructuring of freight transport and individual transport, possibly also the realization of the three-litre passenger car. However, these measures can only be financed by the motorway vignette and later by a road pricing system. In my opinion, the commitment to road pricing is decisive, and I believe that the acceptance of road pricing would certainly be greater. I welcome, Minister of State, the fact that, in the draft Article 15a of the Convention on Climate Change, you have inspired the comprehensive road pricing for trucks and cars as a measure and that the draft also contains this measure. Another cause is agriculture, which has already been mentioned several times. I find it remarkable that a quarter of the CO2 emissions from agricultural transport are caused by: In Austria, there is a high number of agricultural machinery, including only 400 000 tractors, which are not subject to exhaust regulations, although by the way organic diesel is produced in Austria, but unfortunately only exported. The Federal Minister for the Environment has provided the countries with 680 million Schilling for climate protection, of which 28 million for agriculture and forestry alone. I wonder what happened to this money. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: Me too!]] You too? – Perhaps you can tell me how the countries use this money, because I am sorry that the suspicion that it will stop budget holes is pushing up! Ladies and gentlemen! Austria has issued 400 000 tonnes of methane annually, 230 600 tonnes have been released through animal digestion processes. – My proposal on this: It would be most useful to align milk and beef production with domestic consumption. In conclusion: In order to secure the future of our children and young people, but also our own future and to be able to make them more viable, we must work nationally, especially at international level. Because climate protection will decisively influence a positive future for mankind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e15996	Mrs Ing. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Langthaler. - Please. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e16017	Mr President. Mr Umweltminister! I know you want me to talk for only 5 minutes instead of 10 minutes. But I have to devote myself to these two important reports in a little more detail. First of all, very briefly on the climate report. – My previous speakers on the part of the opposition parties have already mentioned it: The main objective of the Austrian Federal Government is to achieve minus 20 percent CO2 emissions by 2005 on the basis of the so-called Toronto target of 1988. However, we are far away from that. Our criticism, which we have had several times, is, of course, that no ecological changes are visible in the field of energy policy. Mr Umweltminister! The restructuring of the E-Economics will also include the installation of ecological parameters and should not be limited to the necessary liberalisation steps under the Internal Electricity Market Directive. The ecological moment is really to come to fruition, so the Ministry of the Environment should in some way be included in the negotiations with the Landes-EVUs. I do not think you have been involved in any form. But I think this is more than meaningful. As you know, in Denmark the energy sector and the environment are combined. I think that this is an absolutely reasonable combination. We have been supporting such a solution for many years. However, it is not possible to implement this, especially because the e-business in Austria is federalistically built up. In our view, an expansion of competence for the federal government should be achieved if the Austrian e-commerce in European competition is to continue to have a certain importance. If you want to survive in this area, you need an Austrian solution with a corresponding energy group, as we think, as always called: "New" or "Green Federation" or similar. [[Abg. Koppler: No, please don't! The latter name doesn't fit me!]] Mr Koppler! If the compound finally uses really renewable energy forms, not only hydropower, but especially biomass, wind sources and photovoltaics, one might well consider such a name. But that's not so important. It would be important for an Austrian solution to ensure that energy policy is actually in the Austrian field, so that we can actually operate it in our country and bring in the ecological skills. I hope that the environment will be included in the negotiations. But now to the National Environmental Plan: You know that we have very much welcomed the fact that such a national environmental plan is being made here in Austria at all. This is an attempt at interdisciplinary approach to the solution of a problem. However, it is a shame that this National Environmental Plan, as it is now present, will remain as non-binding as it has been in recent months. Overall, 472 measures have been proposed in the National Environmental Report for various areas, which are likely to have little to do with environmental protection at first sight. For example, measures in the area of tourism or, more logically, in the fields of agriculture, transport and energy waste management are planned. We have always called for a separate discussion of the national environmental report according to individual chapters – as it is divided itself – in the relevant specialist committees. It would have been much more exciting to discuss, for example, the tourism sector in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy in the Transport Committee, in order to bring the proposals of the National Environmental Plan to the attention of Members who are otherwise faced with quite different constraints. We support a corresponding committee of inquiry, in which the National Environmental Plan is honoured accordingly. They know that in other countries – at least since the Rio conference – there is an attempt to integrate such a thing as permanent survey committees or Sustainable Development Committees. Such commissions exist, for example, in Ireland or Germany and in the Scandinavian countries. I think the National Environmental Plan is much better than its treatment here in Parliament. It's a shame how we treated this one here. There were, however, three meetings of the Environment Subcommittee, some of which had very good discussions, especially during the last meeting. However, it is not binding, and it is really a pity that those instruments that have been proposed do not have any effect at all. Minister! Perhaps, if you speak again, you can present a bit of what is to happen now. Was that all today? We are discussing this plan here for the last time in public at a later hour. There have been some subcommittees, and there is a motion for a resolution from the Government which I consider absolutely essential, because what is required in it is already partly contained in the National Environmental Plan. But that's what you're doing, because it looks better. After this exercise of duty, what will actually happen in the form of the current discussion on the National Environmental Plan, which actually meets with broad approval? We have proposed in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection that we really try to draw up legislation or adapt existing legislation accordingly from the specific measures set out in the environmental plan. I have repeatedly tried to draw all my colleagues' attention to the fact that laws are passed permanently in all the other committees, which are fundamentally contrary to the guidelines of the National Environmental Plan. We will soon negotiate plant law in the industrial order, which is a very central part of environmental protection. The draft government is not only diametrically opposed to the guidelines of the National Environmental Plan, but also to a report on a single environmental plant law, which describes very specific measures, a report which we unfortunately do not discuss here, because the government prefers to end it in committee. So, and this is our main criticism, nothing is to be implemented from the good proposals contained in the National Environmental Plan; it is not to be worked on in concrete terms, and if so, without Parliament. Mr Umweltminister! After completion of the NUP, they have commissioned the Austrian Institute for Sustainable Development to prepare a study on the basis of an inclusive implementation. At that time, the 472 measures of the National Environmental Plan were reduced to 357 measures, of which 39 were combined in a corresponding management model et cetera, et cetera. I don't want to mention all of this now. But what happens now? – There is obviously a set of priorities. But where are your concrete steps, where will you go? Which initiatives do you plan at the Ministry of the Environment? On the basis of which guidelines will be included in the National Environmental Plan Do you also change certain policy areas in your department? What does this mean, for example, for a future waste policy? – All of this is completely unexplained! Unfortunately, it has remained with this non-binding work. This National Environmental Plan is a very good work, which will be taken note of here today with our approval. However, it will unfortunately find – and thus it will also be discredited – no implementation according to a concrete policy. For this requires more than just regulatory measures. I do not think that we should put everything into laws and regulations in this area. Consensus models would often be required far away from a draft law and persuasion. In many areas, however, it is very likely that concrete legislative measures will be taken. In particular, transport and energy are concerned with specific incentives in the field of market economic governance mechanisms, such as eco-taxes. Where are the concrete proposals?- Oh, my God! I am afraid that after this late debate here in the House, this will be a gentle sluggish one, and probably we will only discuss what is to be done in two or three years' time when the NUP is being revised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e16057	Mr Bartenstein is speaking on behalf of the Federal Minister. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e16078	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! In the short term, I would like to say a few sentences on the basis of the importance of the National Environmental Plan and the Climate Change Report. To the National Environmental Plan: The "non-binding" you criticised, Mrs Langthaler, is not such. The National Environmental Plan is and will be a guideline for us... [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The Minister speaks to you!]] I am used to not listening to Mrs Langthaler. [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: I always listen!]] That's all the sharper, then, their attacks! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The National Environmental Plan will be a guideline for us and will also serve my work in the government field, especially if it is to draw attention to what is in it and what has ultimately been decided at government level. I invite the environmental movement and the environmental movements in the House to do it in a similar way. For, Mrs Langthaler, we know exactly what could be the case in discussions about the individual chapters with the respective specialists in the committees of the House: that our colleagues are not necessarily always 100 percent and immediately behind us when it comes to achieving environmental objectives. That is, I think, the case across fractions. So much for the National Environmental Plan. I would also like to ask you to understand that it is not possible to follow a motion for a resolution which requires implementation in the form of legislation for essential areas of this National Environmental Plan by the end of the year. This is unthinkable in the technical sense. This is not the meaning of the National Environmental Plan either. This would all overwhelm us in terms of content and technology and is therefore not possible. Now to the climate report. I am very grateful for the fact that a mayor has already taken the floor before and after me will speak another, one of the results of the Carinthian municipal council election, of successful mayors. For, ladies and gentlemen, climate protection starts at the bottom: Climate protection begins in the family, in the communities, but is also not imaginable without countries and without alliances. Mrs Tegischer! Your excellent remarks have also been made by colleagues, whose industrial past I know and which I am pleased that a change of mind has taken place; I myself am from industry. I would like to tell you that I have very much contacted the countries, with the request to the Heads of State for an answer to the question of what will happen to the planned energy tax share of 830 million schilling. There is a commitment in the FAG: The money must be used for environmental and energy-saving measures. I can also tell you that, in the preparation of a FAG meeting with the countries on Friday this week, the reactions were satisfactory to less satisfactory. At any rate, three countries - and I would like to mention them - did not provide for the corresponding commitment of these funds to their budgets, namely Upper Austria, Tyrol and Vorarlberg. Furthermore, from all three countries, I can give some very good examples of the fact that climate protection is not only an empty word aid, but is actually being used in national policy. Ladies and gentlemen! As far as the League is concerned, I would like to add a few sentences to two major milestones that have been set at the level of the European Union in recent weeks. Not only do I mention this because a picture of Bill Clinton adorns with Al Gore the "curier" of tomorrow, but because I always think of something Al Gore wrote in his books before he became vice-president: Either the European Union will be a pioneer at the Third Conference of the States Parties to the Kyoto Climate Change Convention in Japan in the autumn of this year, or it will be no one – the United States of America certainly not. It was therefore extremely important that we have recently reached a negotiating mandate for Kyoto in Brussels, which provides at least a 15 percent reduction in CO2 by 2010. We will agree on an objective as of 2005 at the June Council meeting. There's Austria's pioneer. I'm happy about it and I'm getting the following: Only Austria has put in place a national reduction target, minus 25 percent for all three greenhouse gases – carbon dioxide, methane and salmon. This corresponds to a CO2 reduction of around 20 percent, but per 2010 based on 1990. The Germans, however, could do more because of their re-unification benefits, and the Danes, whose energy and environmental minister, Mrs Langthaler, has already been mentioned as an example, because he also holds the energy competences. That's the one milestone. The second is that the Commission has recently adopted an Energy Tax Directive as a draft and at least introduced it into the code process, and there are approaches to moving forward in this area, at least as before. The match will be decided provisionally in December of this year in Kyoto. It should be pointed out that Austria is a model – that is, municipalities, countries and federations. I hope that on Friday this week, in Article 15a negotiations with the countries on a Toronto agreement, appropriate adjustments can be made so that, after the already achieved stabilisation of CO2 emissions, a reduction in the direction of minus 20 percent can be implemented by 2005. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e16135	Thank you very much, Minister of State. Mr Wurmitzer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e16159	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Five years ago, the National Environmental Plan was commissioned, and today it is before the National Council for Assessment. I would therefore like to begin by expressing my thanks to Mr Bartenstein, the Federal Minister, but also to his predecessors, who have done this for the time being. I would also like to thank those 400 experts who have contributed and contributed their spiritual knowledge and ability to make the National Environmental Plan of Austria what it is. But I also say that this debate is not over today, but that the debate on the environmental issues of Austria is entering a new dimension and is only beginning. It is gratifying that the National Environmental Plan is in its analysis in accordance with the OECD Report or the OECD Judgment on Austria. Austria is at the forefront of environmental policy, and I would like to point this out to two examples. Austria is a European champion in the field of agriculture, in environmental policy – Mr Haigermoser, please listen! [[Abg. Haigermoser: Go!]] With a 3% share of the EU's total agricultural area, Austria is entitled to 29 percent of the EU's environmental support. That's ten times as much, and that means European Championship! We should be proud of it. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Rossmann: How long?]] At least it is today, and we must keep this standard! It is also gratifying that Austria has more organic farmers than the rest of the EU as a whole. Austria is the world champion, leading to the share of renewable energy. Germany has a share of 2 per cent of renewable energy in total energy consumption, the EU also has only 2 per cent – Austria, on the other hand, 24 per cent, which is 12 times as much as the European average. We should be proud of this performance, and we would like to thank the Austrians for it! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] In addition to these facts, I am very surprised at the adventurous statements made in this House. Mr Barmüller said that the government parties had excluded the opposition from participation in the Committee on the Environment. He probably did not think that the chairmanship of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection had an opposition party in the person of Mr Schweitzer. He also claimed that there were no environmental guidelines in the National Environmental Plan. I can say that these are essentially three. For colleagues Barmüller, remember: First: Global cycles of substances must not be disturbed by human intervention. That's principle number 1. Principle No 2: Local sustainability limits should not be exceeded. Principle No 3: Social developments, which serve to satisfy the needs of the future, must not cause lasting damage to future generations. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] The National Environmental Plan is a vision and an ecological guideline. Whoever demands that he be implemented within a few weeks is an illusionist. It is expected that a 20-year implementation period will take place. In his book "Earth Policy", Ernst Ulrich von Weizsäcker says that an annual rate of change of more than 4 percent is socially unbearable. This should be remembered in all our political decisions, towards economics, towards social tolerance and towards workers. It is therefore necessary to review and revise the National Environmental Plan every four years. A constant comparison must be made, and the latest findings must be incorporated. In this way, today's decision-making is a milestone in the environmental policy of the Republic of Austria. I am glad that there were no contradictions in the Subcommittee, although intensive information exchange and intense discussions took place there. In the subcommittee there was that basic political consensus, which is absolutely desirable in the interests of Austria. Today, however, a political group has agreed on this basic political consensus here in the House, although its representatives have said a lot of praise: Col. Aumayr: NUP is a great document, colleague Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann: NUP is an excellent work, and today Parliamentary Schweitzer: NUP is an excellent instrument. Although you make such judgments on this report, you are not prepared to take note of it here in the House. [[Abg. Haigermoser: If we are "European Champions"!]] You have a party policy in front of state policy. You have to let this accusation fall from this point of view! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] This represents a great opportunity for Austria. If there were political consensus on the National Environmental Plan, implementation would be much easier, and that would certainly be in the interests of our state. We from the Austrian People's Party will support our Federal Minister Bartenstein and the entire Federal Government in the implementation of the National Environmental Plan vehement.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e16255	Mrs Anna Elisabeth Aumayrzu will speak next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e16279	Federal Minister! Mr President. Mr Wurmitzer! [[Call the ÖVP: Good man!]] Very good man, but only for the ÖVP! Mr Wurmitzer! [[Rejoicing]] I am now explaining exactly to you – that is not at all difficult – why the Freedom Party does not agree with the NUP. You probably explore the function and task of the National Council when you stand here and say, the National Environmental Plan, these are plans, visions for the next 20 to 25 years. Mr Wurmitzer, you are not sitting in this house to discuss visions for the next 20 years, but you are sitting here to make laws! [[Abg. Wormitzer: Also!]] [[Calls and calls between the ÖVP and the liberals.]] They are primarily sitting here to make laws so that the coming generations can find similar good living conditions to those we have today. But the policy of this government is moving in a completely different direction, Mr Wurmitzer. Let us take transport policy back and address it in the National Environmental Plan. Do you know, Mr Wurmitzer, how much has the increase in truck transit since EU accession to Suben in Upper Austria been? – The increase is 70 percent. Within two years, there has been an increase in truck transit by 70 percent! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Do you know, Mr Wurmitzer, why I reject this National Environmental Plan? If the government parties were to implement the National Environmental Plan on the spot, that would affect the whole policy. But we have had our experience with your policy: They will select individual measures from this environmental plan, namely those which are primarily budget-effective. All those who agree to this National Environmental Plan today also agree to road pricing, namely a comprehensive road pricing not only on motorways, but also on federal roads, and an increase in mineral oil tax, Mr Wurmitzer! [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Is that your desire?]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's what you want?]] [[Abg. Wormitzer: Do you want that?]] No, it's in the National Environmental Plan. You decide today! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: No! No mineral oil tax! No road pricing either!]] Mr Khol! I will read to you from the National Environmental Plan, which you will decide in the next half hour. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You want more taxes! You want to make laws! We do not decide to raise taxes! No road pricing either!]] A measure is: In order to experience real market prices, the external costs and benefits of transport must also be gradually internalised. For the introduction of cost-effective prices in road transport, comprehensive road pricing and a supplement to the mineral oil tax are appropriate. In Upper Austria, the head of state says he is against road pricing, and the Chamber of Commerce collects signatures against road pricing. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] But today, with your consent to the National Environmental Plan, you decide that the government can take one measure at any time. They will act as well as energy taxation.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e16415	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Müller. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e16437	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! In essence, Mr Federal Minister, you should not be discouraged by the words spoken on this page. [[towards the freedom of movement]] They are similar to those of Mr Schweitzer about 6 percent CO2 or the mixing of pesticides with nitrates. It will still be allowed – perhaps also the liberals confess – that experts... [[Abg. Haigermoser: You have your travel brochure on the tie today!]] Mr Haigermoser, I'm missing the Stadler, you're not so good. [[Abg. Haigermoser: The travel brochure on the tie! I don't want to know your holiday destination!]] That's an environmental tie. Look at this! I'm trying to be a "colored bird" just like some of you are. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] The experts have proposed a number of options for the National Environmental Plan, for reflection. So there are proposals for solutions. We must try to clarify the cost of transport in some form of cost-truth and internalize it in many individual discussions to colleagues on this side. Some, such as Mr Hofmann, will certainly understand us faster. Federal Minister! I think the reports are very good, including the environmental control report, and I would like to say something about the criticism that the report has grown old. We can work on it for a while, even if it has come to Parliament a little late. In addition, I would point out that the Federal Environment Agency - it is good that we have it, even in the existing form - regularly issues information which is state-of-the-art and which is probably given to all political groups. If you are interested in this, you can read it and process it. I have no difficulties with this report. Federal Minister! As Mr Wurmitzer said that we must maintain the standard, I note that this is a valuable newspaper. In addition to the reports of the Federal Environment Agency, the Minister is currently telling us what he is up to, and there is also a bold picture. It is also necessary to read such documents. [[Abg. Koppler: Show the picture once!]] If you start saving the Federal Environment Agency, Minister, you should nevertheless maintain the standards. That is what Mr Wurmitzer meant. I think that the Greens' motion for a resolution is rather unnecessary. This brings me back to the Federal Environment Agency, on which I hang with special heart blood, because I was, so to speak, one of his very small fellow fathers. The great father was Kurt Steyrer, the ÖVP was not even a stepfather at the time, but rather played the role of the evil queen in snow whites. [[Abg. Haigermoser: That was in the little coalition!]] I've read about it today: Haigermoser is one of the last representatives of the species of liberal liberties from the small coalition that contributed to this law at the time. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Do you want to harm me?]] We fought for the law, and we wanted an Environment Agency that is similar to the German Environment Agency. That's it. [[Abg. Koppler: What happened to the Haigermoser?]] You have to talk about it, Mr Minister, and you can be a little accused of not talking to the competent people of the coalition partner. People get together when they talk. There are some possibilities, for example, that the laboratory facilities of the Federal Environment Agency should not be divided into a GesmbH, which is said to be only 4 million schilling. In a well-founded knowledge of practice, I also dare to doubt that such orders would be obtained because there is already a very wide market of civil engineers and institutes. Rather, it is possible that there are convulsions. I can imagine, however, that one can give up the status as a secondary service and significantly improve the situation with other constructions, such as a direct submission with a partial right. It would also be possible to accept contracts that would be subject to a detailed check. There are certainly some things to improve. Nor is the accusation that parallel structures have been built up in the Ministry of the Environment of the Federal Environment Office completely inappropriate. I have been following this development before your time, Minister, with distrust. Surely you have done a lot in this regard. We are ready to talk, but not for the variant that initially stands in the room; we do not want a GesmbH and this comic transfer of a part to the ministry. First of all, I would like to read the "FOCUS" report, including letters from the Works Council, although not quite as Mr Head said here. We will talk about it, and we will negotiate hard. The Federal Environment Agency is almost something like a life nerve for the environmental group of the Social Democrats, I can tell you here on behalf of everyone. A few words about the future: I am also convinced that the NUP is a guideline and that it is a policy to implement action. This will enable us to measure the coalition or the responsible ones, and it is not about making a few laws now, and that is already happening. Mr Minister, on one point I must ask for more stability to Vorarlberg: It must be done to finally adapt the landfills to water law, which were already approved before the entry into force of the Waste Management Act. There's a federal country that's moving, and that's Vorarlberg. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: The lobbyists!]] I spoke recently about this at a meeting of the Environment Fund with Mrs Landesratin Sickl. It has said that the country of Carinthia is also in favour, and I am also told that almost all environmental councils are in favour of complying with the 2004 deadline. That is also necessary. On the other hand, the ideas of the Vorarlbergers are incomprehensible to me. They want to postpone the date to 2008 – and I take this away from the documents I have before me about the authorisation of the head of state. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: This must be said to the Molterer!]] When we address this, the Vorarlbergers do so, and when the lobbyists of other landfills exert political pressure, other federal states follow this example, so that in 2004 we stand without incinerators and would continue to bury the dirt in the earth. That's how it would come. I also do not understand that, despite the existing three private landfills in Vorarlberg – the liability questions have to be considered separately – I have a lot of knowledge of Vorarlberg's garbage, apparently because the three private landfills are too expensive, are outsourced to Styria or transferred to other federal states. They know the bad business that is currently under way, that all those who own landfills are trying to fill their poses with devils. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: This is a nice business!]] As a result, combustion plants such as the model plant in Wels are in business trouble. But who will eventually have to pay again for the old loads that are still being piled up in flight? - We'll all be. Mr Federal Minister, I urge you to talk to the Vorarlbergers about this. I do not think there should be this exception. Mr Federal Minister, I also believe that we are in the near future... [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: I am interested in whether the respective landfill operator is a functionary of the ÖVP!]] I don't see that politically at all. These are business people who can be of any color. When it comes to cashen, as we know, in all parties – up to the Communists who have also had huge businesses – one is relatively unrestrained. Mr. Federal Minister, I invite you to speak seriously with us. One thing has to be clear to you: This is a law, and you will also need the environmental group of the Social Democrats. We expect such conversations. As has been said, we agree and are satisfied with the reports.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e16605	The next speaker was Mr Salzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e16626	Mr. Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I do not want to go further into the remarks of my predecessor, the "colored bird", as he called himself, in the fall flight, as I mean. Instead, I would like to deal with the National Environmental Plan. Since 1992, seven expert groups have tried to raise the state of the environment. They show clearly where there are environmental problems, and they are trying to present medium and long-term approaches to sustainable environmental protection. It is noted in the NUP that most of the ecological problems have been caused by the northern industrialized countries, because of enormous economic growth, because of the enormous development in which the consumption of fossil energy has been staggering during the last hundred years and industrial production has even increased by the factor 50. The threat, ladies and gentlemen, is that this development has taken place mainly since 1950. It is clear from this that the increase in our environmental problems is not linear but logarithmic, and that the spiral of environmental waste and environmental damage is turning faster and faster. In addition, according to careful United Nations conservative forecasts, the population will at least double over the next 50 years. Therefore, I say "according to careful, conservative forecasts", because the enormous development in medicine, especially in genetic engineering, was not or was not only taken into account. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! About 100 years ago, the average life expectancy of humans was about 35 years; to this day it has more than doubled. This development will be speeded up. There are forecasts that in about 20 to 30 years the life expectancy of humans will be at 100 to 120 years and that the use of genetic engineering could even lead to a much higher life expectancy, i.e. if the so-called clock gene – this controls the aging process of the cells – could be manipulated and the aging of the cells could be slowed. This has already been successfully carried out in certain worm species – in Nematoden – with an increase in life expectancy up to five times. Ladies and gentlemen! This would not only make the generation contract obsolete by aging society, but would be much greater than previously assumed problems in the whole of the environment. It is therefore correct and important that experts try to assess developments and formulate visions and objectives, but policy should specify the path and timetable for implementation and should not escape from non-binding statements of intent. However, this federal government does exactly the last thing: It flees in non-binding declarations of intent. However, without such specific requirements for implementation, this National Environmental Plan is merely a sedative, with which shortcomings in the environment are to be checked and critical persons are to be halted. It obviously serves this government only as a fig leaf, with which one tries to present measures – which has already been mentioned here today – such as road pricing or surcharges on energy and mineral oil tax as environmental taxes. – In fact, these supplements and tax increases are only used for budget recovery. Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that the Federal Government really does not mean anything about the implementation of the NUP has shown itself all too clearly at the last meeting of the Environment Committee. The draft Environmental Investment Act has been dealt with and completed. The purpose of the authorisation procedure is to restrict the rights of neighbours and the participation of citizens, but also the competence of the communities. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: Who says that?]] This is, of course, contained in the Environmental Investment Act! Mr. Federal Minister! If you've been watching, you must have heard it: The responsibility of the municipalities is also to be reduced only to the status of parties. It is quite clear from the explanations that, although construction police and fire police are in the most effective areas of the communities, constitutional provisions can be used to pass through them. Please, check it out! This is indeed the case in the draft law! The objectives set out in the National Environmental Plan are quite different, quite contrary to that. It states under "local image protection and local design concept", that an unobstructed local and landscape image must be preserved and preserved, that construction plans should preserve the construction types or the local character, and that "foreign bodies" are meant to be, above all, farms that do not fit into the local picture – not to be rebuilt or, if possible, even removed. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! Federal Minister! You decide within a few minutes in the same committee on the contrary, and here you want to give us all serious consent that you are serious about this National Environmental Plan. He was introduced, and he was taken note of. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: The plant law has not been decided, Dr. Salzl!]] A draft and an opinion were submitted. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: A review by Dr. Raschauer!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! They simply want to reduce, as I believe, environmental failures in this National Environmental Plan. In any case, we liberties will certainly not be advocating the continuation of these failures and this distraction maneuver!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e16690	The next speaker is Mr Stampler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e16711	Mr President. Federal Minister! The National Environmental Plan, which was first drawn up for Austria in the long term, is intended as a long-term guidance framework for all parties involved. The preliminary work had already begun in 1992 and was developed in seven working groups on transport and transport, agriculture, forest, water, industry and industry, energy, tourism and leisure, resource management and consumers and consumers. The National Environmental Plan, which is today for discussion and decision-making, is therefore not only a reference work for statisticalists or eco-Romanists: Rather, it is also an expression of a political will for the future of ecology, environmental protection as a whole and of legislation and enforcement in detail. In order to be able to work efficiently, it was necessary once to identify figures on resource consumption, to present the future development and to create counter-strategies where it is necessary. At the latest, when you have read the NUP carefully, you need to understand how the individual topics are interconnected. That is why it was necessary to collect all the data and draw conclusions from it for a comprehensive package of measures. The fact that the National Environmental Plan is an excellent achievement and is a forward-looking idea also shows that other European countries, such as Germany and Sweden, have shown enormous interest in this. The fact that we are taking this issue very seriously can be seen in three meetings, on 14 November. ==References== ==References== In March 1997, a special subcommittee on the content and problems of the NUP was set up. Because one thing is sure: This topic is too important to be rubbed. It is also too important to make small payments with cheap applications. With a single law or a single government template, the objectives of the NUP are impossible to achieve. The government parties consider this to be non-target because the NUP contains around 360 measures to be implemented each with short-term, medium-term and long-term measures. These individual measures are listed in the respective chapter and have a time horizon for implementation. The individual measures in this report point to the possibility of optimising resource use and thus reducing its consumption: "The technology for environmental protection, not the technology, is the choice and the task of politics. That all this can't go from today to tomorrow is probably clear to everyone. However, the fact that some opposition politicians will always be too slow is also clear. I believe, as has already been mentioned today, that this NUP will be a long-term guideline for a permanent process. The Federal Government has also announced itself in a Council of Ministers decision on the objectives of this National Environmental Plan. In the next few years, it will be a task to make environmental protection even more tasty for each one in its area and to create financial incentives. For example, when it comes to the energy needs of households, there are countless ways to reduce consumption and also to provide employment incentives. That ecologically meaningful construction is not just a key word, but a useful way to each one. The vast majority of energy in a private household is spent on heating. With reasonable insulation, thermal insulation is expected after a few years. It is not possible to force the individual to do so, but it is necessary to strengthen the existing incentives. As I said, As far as ecology is concerned, Austria has already taken on a pioneering role in many areas. At European level, it is important to interact with other countries and invite them to participate and follow our example.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e16766	The next speaker is Mr Wenitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e16787	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As the previous speakers of my group have already explained, this National Environmental Plan is a rather interesting report and is largely to be welcomed. However, it contains a number of proposals, which I believe can only be understood on a conditional basis. In this context, I should like to talk about road pricing and the increase in the tax on mineral oil. For me personally, an increase in mineral oil tax would only be possible in connection with a general eco-tax. However, these incomes from an eco-tax are not intended to reorganise the Federal Budget, but they must be used to bring about a noticeable tax relief for the employment factor here in Austria. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Minister! However, our government is concerned that only those demands arising from this environmental plan, which brings higher revenue to the reorganisation of our managed state funds, could be taken up on a punctual basis. By the way, this is also evidenced by the today's statement of your colleague, who has given a clear opinion to the media and has meant that the Federal Government is trying to increase revenue, but there is still nothing special about saving. I should like to join with Mr Stumpfully on this point: It is to be feared that the good thoughts of this National Environmental Plan will be shaken. Since this is something to be feared by this government, I will not vote in favour of this environmental plan either. In addition to the NUP, the Environment Committee also discussed the draft new environmental rights, once again showing the attitudes of the government parties. Personally, ladies and gentlemen, I would naturally welcome an efficient right of installation. However, I reject inadmissible restrictions on the rights of the arrants or the landowners. The condition of approval by the Authority's inactivity, Mr Minister, opens the door and door to the political arbitrariness. You said: If the competent authority, the Senate to be set up, fails to notify for three months, any construction operator may start construction. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: I certainly didn't say that!]] But at least so, Minister, you must admit that! [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: Maybe there's something I said, but I didn't say it!]] It may also be a national economic damage if someone can start a construction project before the legal force enters. Because what really happens if a builder, a construction operator really fails due to the high construction costs? Who is responsible for disposal if this notice is not granted in the legal way and the operator has to reassess the plant? This could cost the taxpayer here in Austria – I really want to remember that – a lot of money! Another thing: As we are accustomed to the actual use – I would like to put it carefully – of the previous mountain law, of course certain lobbies are treated, I also formulate it carefully, favourably or earlier. And it is very useful for the person concerned, Mr Minister, if measures are taken, such as was read in huge letters yesterday in the "Kronen Zeitung": "Landeshauptmann Pröll and environmental councillor Wagner are running against the mountain law storm." – Ladies and gentlemen! We here in the National Council can amend the mountain law, but not the national leaders and not the national councils! That is why it would be necessary to redesign and reform this mountain law, ladies and gentlemen. In connection with the Berggesetz for the future, I call for a more binding, consultative position of the mountain skin teams. I also call for the concept of "public interest" to be clearly defined here in this House or in a law. Because at present the term "public interest" is a game ball, Mr. Minister, and the "little man" here in Austria is really on foot in this context. That favours certain lobbies, and on the other hand I really am! With regard to environmental protection law, Mr Minister, I call for a total reform of the trade regulations. However, I also demand that farmers' laws not be tightened with regard to the rules on trade. I would ask that the trade regulation be reformed in such a way that it is easier for the current or future traders to set up or maintain a business in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e16847	The next speaker is Mr Kampichler. He's got the word for 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e16868	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Of course, the National Environmental Plan is praised by the government parties and even by the opposition, and I can only join in this praise and, above all, thanks. This environmental plan will show us the way to sustainable environmental development in Austria. The National Environmental Plan – it is very important to me personally – sees itself as a list of measures for an open and innovative process in the future. That is to say, new insights are to be reintroduced again and again, and measures are to be continued. In this way, the National Environmental Plan will continue to keep up-to-date and valid in the future. It aims to provide a new understanding of the environment and environmental influences. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is important to implement this National Environmental Plan that we also seek allies among neighbouring countries, because environmental protection does not stop at borders. We must strive for equal opportunities across Europe, and we from the Austrian People's Party will certainly be initiative in this direction! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! When you browse the National Environmental Plan, you can see that many content is already being implemented at different levels – at federal level, at national level and especially at local level. We're on a very good way. My previous speakers, especially the mayors, have already pointed out what is happening in the communities; I can only underline this. There are great initiatives in this area to promote alternative energy sources, to promote solar installations for hot water preparation or thermal insulation in the area of municipal buildings et cetera. I would also like to mention the billions, ladies and gentlemen, who are invested in the field of wastewater treatment. There are also initiatives to avoid waste, waste separation, composting, waste recycling. All of this is provided for in the National Environmental Plan and in practice already very, very well implemented. I refer in this context, for example, to the many activities of dedicated environmental councils in our communities. Let me also mention the country's initiatives positively. Mr Barmüller has mentioned Pröll several times. – I should like to remind you that the head of state Pröll is one of the major pioneers in the field of environmental protection and that in Lower Austria great actions in the field of environmental protection are being put in place: Energy saving measures will be promoted; housing development will be increased in the future if the housing building is designed particularly environmentally friendlyly or when energy saving measures are put in place. I would also like to remind you that the establishment of alternative energy plants is also very intensively supported by the country. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Many requirements of the National Environmental Plan also produce valuable economic impulses, which are also expected. I expect, of course, a very positive development in the implementation of the economy and employment policy. The environmental plan provides a basis for preserving our intact environment, a basis for preserving the living and vital resources for the coming generation, for the generation of our children!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e16923	For the last time, the following words have been spoken: Mr Hofmann. Time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e16944	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me to say a few words in connection with the National Environment Plan on renewable energy forms. If Mr Wurmitzer believes that we world champions or European champions - I no longer know exactly what he has said - are in the field of renewable energy forms and lead 70 to 72 percent of hydropower, I must object: [[Abg. Wormitzer: 24 percent!]] In any case, we must say that in Austria we find a particularly favourable situation. Mr Wurmitzer! The government parties will soon have the opportunity to prove how serious they are with the guidelines – because this is how the NUP is clearly understood and so it is to be understood. In this context, I address the Energy Organisation Act and the feed-in compensation scheme. – In the NUP it says on page 93: "As an assessment criterion, the current prices are not only suitable, which are mainly based on short-term decision-making criteria. In principle, all economic assessments of the entire life cycle of the products involved must be taken into account." – This can be read in Chapter 3.4.1 under "Energy". This feed-in fee and the Energy Organisation Act will be the nail sample for the Federal Government, how serious it is in the final effect to give renewable energy sources – there are also others, not just hydropower – a chance for the future.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e16982	No further words are available here. The debate is therefore closed. Nor is there any wish for a conclusion from the rapporteur. We therefore come to the votes. These are carried out separately by each committee. First of all, we shall vote on the request of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of the report of the Federal Government III-8 of the Supplements on the 1995 Austrian Climate Change Report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who vote in favour of the adoption of this government report to give a sign of approval. – The report has been taken note of by a majority. Next, we shall vote on the request of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of the report by the Federal Minister for the Environment, Youth and Family on the National Environmental Plan for Austria. I should also like to ask that those ladies and gentlemen who vote in favour of the adoption of this National Environmental Plan give a sign of approval. – The National Council shall act by a majority. We shall also vote on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report 637 of the Supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give your approval to this committee resolution to give a sign. – I notice: This resolution is approved by the majority of the House. (E 48.) Finally, we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Members. Schweitzer and comrades on the implementation of the objectives defined in the National Environmental Plan. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give us a sign of this. – This is the minority. The Schweitzer motion for a resolution is rejected. That is what we have done on this item on the agenda. 13. Point Report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the Government template (551 of the Supplements): Federal Law on the Foundation and Participation in the Oberösterreichische Kalkalpen National Park Gesellschaft m.b.H. (635 of the supplements) 14. Point Report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the Government Template (568 of the Supplements): Agreement in accordance with Article 15a B-VG between the Federal Government and the Upper Austria for the establishment and maintenance of a National Park Upper Austrian Calc Alps (636 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e17082	We come to points 13 and 14 of the agenda. The debate will be held under one. I do not wish to be introduced by the rapporteur. We are therefore immediately entering the debate. The first mention is made by Mr Murauer. - Please. [[Abg. Dr. Khol takes a glass of water from the jar standing at the speaker's desk.]] – Mr Murauer, do not let the water be dug!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e17124	Mr President. We have so much water in the Kalkalpen National Park that a glass of water is available for our clubman! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr President. Minister! Today, let me tell you with great joy about the Article 15a agreement on the Kalkalpen National Park. [[Abg. Wabl: Hallelujah!]] It could also be voted a Hallelujah, absolutely right! I hope you agree that the Kalkalpen National Park is something special. Anyone who has ever seen and visited him will agree with me. Allow me now to give you some facts. It is an area with an area of 185 square kilometres or 18 500 hectares. 80 percent of these, ladies and gentlemen, cover 30 different forest companies. You won't believe it. You can find 10 million trees in this area alone. Anyone who has time – I think, these are just you from the liberals – can tell them. This national park has 180 kilometers of unbuilt river landscapes. Ladies and gentlemen! Fearful, deep canyons shape the landscape, and hundreds of sources result in this area. In addition, there are 800 large species of butterflies in this beautiful area of the Kalkalpen National Park, 2,000 beetles, 1500 different species of plants and 3,000 large mushrooms. Mrs Aumayr! They are Upper Austrian Members and certainly have something important to say about the National Park. I'm asking you to do this! Aha, you're still on it. [[Abg. Aumayr: I'm on the speaker list!]] I'll be excited to listen to your statements! Ladies and gentlemen! The Kalkalpen National Park is a combination of unspoiled natural landscape and for centuries farmed cultural land in the Pyrn-Eisenwurzen region. It is the largest closed forest area in the eastern Alps. It extends from the Reichraminger Hintergebirge to the Sensengebirge, the Ennstal, the Steyr valley and the Teichl valley to the Windischgarstener Becken and the stallion pass. The Kalkalpen National Park is in its subalpine character our forest national park with the largest water protection area in Austria. Many also call this area the "water castle" of our nation. We decide today on this Article 15a agreement. The head of the state of Upper Austria Dr. Josef Pühringer called this State Treaty a "Meilenstein in the history of our country" because of its importance to Upper Austria. . I should like to mention that from the outset we have considered the IUCN criteria to be the declared objective and, of course, have given the people the appropriate importance. I am pleased that there is an extension towards the Dead Mountains, Haller Walls, Warscheneck Group to the Styria. There is already a corresponding resolution of the land day, ladies and gentlemen from Styria. The Kalkalpen National Park not only houses primeval forests – as you might think – or karst deserts or rivers in drinking water quality, but also clear traces of a once flowering iron industry. In the 1980s, therefore, the intention was to establish, next to this National Park, a cultural park in our region, which is also in line with the tradition of iron processing. Next year we will be able to set up a national exhibition entitled "Land of Hammers". This will be the first regional regional exhibition covering an entire region, and Lower Austria and Styria will have their shares. "Nature and Culture" has become the headline for the development strategy of a former peripheral region. Ladies and gentlemen! There was, of course, not only agreement, but also corresponding difficulties. Through years of efforts to improve the acceptance of the population, to engage in discussions, to allow them to talk, to involve them in projects, to form project groups with those concerned and to involve them in the design, we have managed to create a national park that is accepted with the citizens. The immediate anrainer communities were particularly required. There are eight of them: Reichraming, Großraming, Weyer Land, Rosenau, Molln, Windischgarsten, Roßleithen and St. Pankraz. They were all very demanded. But they could come up with the motto: Explain "as much close to nature as possible, as much care as necessary". In the meantime there is, as has been said, great acceptance for this. I am particularly pleased that young people are behind this great project of nature conservation and are enthusiastically in favour of this national park. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is our task, of course, to show people a recognizable economic benefit. It is the policy of the ÖVP to unite all marketing measures for sustainable economies under the "National Park" seal of quality. [[Call for the call.]] Of course, not every one understands this, and I did not expect you to be more understanding for nature and nature conservation. But that doesn't bother me in any way. Why shouldn't there be this difference? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. They don't have the high mountains!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The economic benefit is essential for the people who live there. Since the National Environmental Plan has been discussed today, I would add that parts of this National Environmental Plan are already being implemented in the individual municipalities in that region. In these communities alternative energy becomes a matter of course. Sun energy, wind energy and hacking heat are used. There are a number of energy-saving municipalities or climate alliances. A national park brings a particularly careful strategy and careful further development into a region. But we must not only take into account nature, but also promote economic development accordingly. The "soft tourism" in the region will give impetus. In this context, I should like to draw attention to the opening of a 140 km mountain bike track, which can already be made touristic effective. [[Abg. Koppler: That was the Gartlehner!]] A work initiative in line with nature and the environment: This is the Kalkalpen National Park. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] For us, ladies and gentlemen, it means security of the future, security of nature and culture, pure drinking water, tourism and economic development. Finally, I would like to thank you very much. There were many dedicated citizens and landowners, there were dedicated alpine clubs and nature conservation associations, there were politicians and officials involved at all levels. [[Abg. May. Peter: And citizens!]] I thank the mayors for whom it has not always been easy to support this project. Thank you to our head of state Dr. Pühringer for his commitment to this National Park from the beginning, and I am also very grateful to our competent ministers Bartenstein and Molterer. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It seems that the colleagues of the Social Democrats do not want to hear this; why, I do not know. But they will come to the speaker's desk later and will certainly be able to explain this to me. [[Call the SPÖ:Read more!]] The negotiations were not always simple, but always fair. I am pleased that we are today deciding on this national park in accordance with Article 15a. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e17272	The next speaker is Mr Wimmer. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e17294	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Murauer, who is not happy today?- Oh, my God! Upper Austria gets its National Park. After successful negotiations, it is time for the Kalkalpen National Park to be realized. As many words of thanks have already been spoken today, I would like to say as the Upper Austrian, that I am already a little proud of the fact that the then nature conservation representative and current Federal Minister Mag. Prammer, leading this project, so important to us, was able to complete. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Mr Murauer was right in quoting Mr Pühringer and thanking him. However, I had the impression that last year, when the main negotiations were held, the head of state had to spend a lot of time in order to deal with Lambbach. That's why I was surprised by what you said here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is a unique natural area of national and international importance to be promoted and preserved. These areas – which has already been addressed today – include three main parts: first, the highest high moor in Central Europe, second, the largest Austrian karst complex – the Dead Mountain – and third, a unique flora and fauna in Europe. Mr Murauer has already listed the number of trees, I am going to save myself now. Ladies and gentlemen! What the conservationists, especially the Alpine clubs, have called for for for for decades, is actually becoming reality. It is planned to design this nature park in several sections. The first stage concerns the mountain ranges Sensengebirge and especially the Hintergebirge; only in the second section is an extension to take place. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I would like to take this opportunity to point out once again that, regardless of who was involved in it in detail, it was possible in a very short time to conclude these negotiations. It is also known from international comparisons and experiences that the implementation of such projects often takes decades, because it is not easy to bring the various interests into one. [[Abg. Aumayr: It took us so long!]] What were the essential conditions for this project? – First of all, the consent of the property owners – it was relatively simple, because above all a large landowner, namely the Austrian Federal Forest, was affected – and second, the voluntary introduction of the land into this national park. These are two particularly important elements for the implementation of such a project. As regards the integration of the Austrian Federal Forest, a solution acceptable to all sides could be found. The Committee also discussed the need for compensation for loss of use or economic difficulties on the property owners. It was the legitimate right of the Austrian Federal Forest to demand that any management measures be implemented by its own employees. For there was concern among the employees of the Austrian Federal Forest that various measures will be carried out by society in the future and no longer by the workforce. – I think these fears could be removed. Dear ladies and gentlemen! The opening of the National Park will take place in the coming autumn. A uniquely beautiful natural paradise is now being protected. [[Abg. May. Peter: Just before the 5th. October?]] I'm sure it's probably 4th. October. We Socialists take note of this with joy.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e17357	The next speaker is Mr Hofmann. Voluntary speaking time: Six minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e17378	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The establishment of the national park in the Upper Austrian region of the northern alps naturally finds the consent of the liberals. If you go from the original point of view, the area of the National Park should include an area of about 100,000 hectares – possibly a dream; the reality has remained at 16,400 hectares. But it's definitely a beginning. Ladies and gentlemen! If we are to negotiate intensively with the private owners in the area of the Haller Walls, I can imagine that there too the resistance to an expansion of the National Park can be reduced and perhaps also a larger area can become reality to the Styria. Ladies and gentlemen! I agree to make an amendment to the Government's proposal. It should be noted that after four years, the budget of the National Park Society will spend around 24 million schillings on the Federal Forests. It also includes their facilities to be used. We criticise that half of the budget available should be used for this purpose. Since joining the EU, the small forest farmers have to fight with a dramatic price decline in wood. We want to prevent the subsidisation of a state-owned company, but believe that, of course, the Austrian Federal Forest AG can use the necessary management services and can also be honoured with market-oriented prices. I therefore propose the following amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] I can't help thinking about the originally planned procedure, ladies and gentlemen. I recall 1993 when the head of the Socialist Party in Upper Austria, Hochmair, spoke out openly for expropriation and the head of the VP of the old country Ratzenböck, in a slightly hidden way. [[Abg. Murauer: That's not true!]] Of course that's true! But such things, Mr President, will be forgotten again and again. I am very glad that the expropriation section has not been applied, but has been deleted, and I believe that this is also a common path towards a possible extension of this national park. I think that with people it was planned for nature, and I wish the National Park a good future from a liberal point of view.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e17437	The text of the amendment is properly filed and is under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Barmüller. Speaking time: 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e17461	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Murauer's speech was really impressive, since it was obviously well worked. I have set up the Fourth Environmental Control Report here and read in Part A under "Spatial Protection" - I recall that this was previously taken into account by a majority in this House - that some measures are absolutely necessary. It is also called the early construction of the Donauen and Kalkalpen National Parks. Mr Murauer, as soon as in this case, the coalition has rarely worked. I hope that the preparation and implementation of management plans for nature conservation areas, the standardisation of further Ramsauer areas, or the adequate designation of protected areas in accordance with the EU Directives on nature conservation, will be carried out with the same speed as you have now demonstrated the establishment of a national park. In this sense, I agree with the speeches made by my previous speakers and am glad that we can decide on this today. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e17491	Next word: Mr Schrefel. Speaking time: 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e17513	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Since 1989, planning and preparatory work has been under way for the establishment and conservation of the Kalkalpen National Park, supported by the Ministry of the Environment by the financing of planning work. The Ministry's central concern is the sustainable conservation and development of natural landscapes, just as they can be found in Austria's largest karst complex with its immense biodiversity in fauna and flora as well as the diversity of forest societies. Similar to our Donauen National Park in Lower Austria, an efficient National Park administration is also to be established there. In the first place, 18 500 hectares will be managed, as we have heard. The current costs of the National Park Society for the operation are to be up to 50 million schilling each year. This includes the costs of compensation to the real estate owners as well as the costs of management measures. As regards the amendment tabled earlier by the Freedom Party, which criticises that the National Park Society will be forced to transfer 24 million Schilling annually to the Austrian Federal Forest AG from the fourth year onwards, it must be noted that the right of the property owners to compensation for loss of income and loss of use for the national party is indivisible and also applies to Bundesforest AG. A further 25 million Schillings will flow to the other property owners for compensation as well as to the management of the AG. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Thank God!]] The cost of implementing the management measures on the land of the Federal Forests by the Austrian Federal Forests is 11 million Schilling annually, which is part of the 24 million Schilling. They shall be charged in accordance with the respective accounting statements. The Article 15a Treaty between the Federal Government and the Upper Austria now requires every effort to implement the first step, to gain the trust of the population in the region and to raise awareness of nature in people. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Right!]] Mr Wimmer! The issue of renewable energy forms was discussed earlier in the National Environmental Plan. I am surprised that you are making head of state Pühringer's precepts because he has been involved in the power plant Lambach. I really don't understand your argument!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e17563	Next speaker is Mrs Ing. Langthaler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e17585	Mr President. Minister! Landday elections sometimes also have their good, this time that we decide to set up the Kalkalpen National Park before the next country election in Upper Austria. [[Abg. Auer: For you not in Upper Austria!]] This certainly has caused some acceleration, especially when it can be heard that the opening was safe before the 5th. It will take place in October. The Greens, of course, welcome the fact that there is an additional national park, and we will be happy to agree to this proposal for a law, although, above all, I would like to suggest the following to the speakers of the EIA: Nature conservation should not only be taken seriously in ecologically protected areas such as national parks, not only in eco-reservatories, but I advise you to see a little more comprehensive nature conservation. Say that to your head of state Pühringer, especially when it comes to the power plant Lambach, because there he was completely no matter what nature conservation and only economic interests were important – not energy policy, for we have rejected it a hundred times. [[Abg. Untruth!]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: You don't know the budget at all!]] Tell him and your other ÖVP country leaders! Other parties constantly try to negotiate in the direction that nature conservation can finally become federal competence and not be established in each country completely different criteria. In international comparison, we cannot take a very good look at nature conservation. But we are now picking up a national park, which we are very happy to give our approval to today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e17647	The next speaker is Mrs Aumayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e17668	Minister! Mr President. The Freeman also welcomes the establishment of the Kalkalpen National Park. Mr Murauer! [[Abg. Murauer: Yes! Please!]] I forgive you for the speech you gave here. [[Abg. Murauer: Nice to meet you!]] I believe, Mr Murauer, that you are somewhat frustrated at the fact that you did not speak at the opening of the National Park, which is why you have given the opening speech here today. [[Intervoke: It wasn't yet]] Where were the 250... [[Abg. Murauer: They weren't there, unlike you!]] But you couldn't talk either! But colleague Madl was there, and she's from this region. [[Abg. Murauer: She's been there for the first time!]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] How do you want to know where my colleague Madl was for the first time? Mr Murauer, I believe that this is what you are taking on. The National Park has cost many millions long before it was built. What has been spent on planning and societies is huge amounts, Mr Murauer. Long has been debated, groups have been set up, there and there a forum, and all the other institutions have been set up to keep the opposition away. I can remember that very well. [[Complementary of the Abg. Madl.]] We cannot afford to use national parks as a fig leaf for our economic policy. For on the one hand, to build national parks, but to speak outside the national parks of industrialized agriculture and genetic engineering, in addition to halving the prices for farmers' products, which is why farmers have to generate higher yields in order to cope with their losses and their costs, I call it a policy that is strongly reminiscent of a fig-leaf policy. [[Call the ÖVP:150 percent more organic farmers!]] From this point of view, I would also like to thank the conservationists who have prevented the Reichraminger Hintergebirge power plant at their own expense and with much commitment. Otherwise, you would not be able to build the National Park today. I'd like to write that to you in the main book! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In particular, I thank law firm Dr. Gugerbauer for the free representation of these conservationists.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e17784	The Federal Minister has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e17806	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mrs Aumayr, as an eyewitness, I would like to say that I saw Mrs Madl as a guest at the opening, which was not, but the signing of the State Treaty – the opening of the Kalkalpen National Park will only take place in July of this year. I was there and met her, you weren't there. Mr Murauer was there too. – This is just to eliminate some ambiguities. That is why I should like to speak – and that seems to me to be essential – is Mr Hofmann's statement, which I have already heard in committee and which is reflected in this amendment: It is unacceptable that the compensation of the Federal Forests will be increased to 24 million Schilling from 2001 onwards. First of all: The sum of 24 million schilling is right. Secondly, It is essential to note that this sum consists of about half of contract nature protection funds and half of management services, including services carried out by the Federal Forest staff in the national park area. I would like to thank Bundesforest AG for having agreed to accept the compensation payments of 6.5 million, rising within five years to 13.1 million schilling. I ask you, since you have a relatively important forest owner in your series – he is mentioned as such in tomorrow’s issue of a magazine – whether your leader and forest owner boss would be happy and satisfied with less than 1 000 s of lease and compensation for a hectare of his forest in the Bärental. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Madl: This is private reason!]] Mr Hofmann came to the speaker's desk and spoke of expropriation – Mr Landeshauptmann's deputy, Hochmair, wanted to expropriate Mr Ratzenböck: The only ones who want and want to expropriate are you! [[Abg. Madl: But really not! We prevented this!]] For Bundesforest AG is a owner like any other, and this property is to be compensated! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Letter You're going to get that into the liberal book! Talk to the owner of the Bärental about what he thinks about these questions and what is worth a hectare per year of lease interest. It is therefore essential to maintain this, because I believe that two principles apply in the National Park question. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: Take your hand out of your pocket!]] Mr State Secretary Out of Office! That's what it was. Their first contribution tonight, and it wasn't the very best I've heard. [[Cheerfulness and applause with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Two things are very essential in the National Park discussion. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: The hand is out now!]] I am glad that I was able to generate a new dynamic from you! [[Cheerfulness and applause with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I come back to these two principles, because they are essential to me. First: The word 'disadvantage', ladies and gentlemen, has not lost anything at all in a debate in connection with national parks. [[Abg. Madl: That was planned!]] I am in favour of the National Park's idea in Austria without the word 'disfellowshipping' without the threat of expropriation. This is true today, and that is true in all futures. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Secondly, A national park can only function on the basis of effective and fair contract nature protection. This means that property owners – whether Bundesforeste AG or forest farmers whose compensation will also be based on it – have to be compensated for providing areas for Austria's national parks, whether it be Danube, Hohe Tauern, Kalkalpen, Neusiedlersee/Seewinkel or elsewhere.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e17932	Mr Helmut Peter came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e17954	Mr President. High house! Federal Minister! I hear with great interest that the Bear Valley in Carinthia is now a national park. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] I hope you will enter the negotiations in good time before the next Carinthian country election. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: And the owner there is placed under protection of species!]] Good! [[Abg. Arbitrator: "National" is true, but "Park" is not!]] [[Cheerfulness and applause with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] As Murauer has begun, so is the time for the celebration. We are all pleased that we have a national park and that it has become something of it in time. I only recall once that there was a more comprehensive concept. As expected, there were misunderstandings and difficulties with the property owners. One has now agreed on the 16 400 hectares of the Federal Forest. There is protection of contract nature, an amount has been paid, that is to be all right. The question is, how is it going now? Is it possible through this first nuclear national park to make it clear to the people living in this area that this will create a new ground pension for them? It is understandable that the property owners are suspicious. They say: So far I have known that I can live from my agriculture and my forest, but what is going to happen now? – Perhaps we can take advantage of this great opportunity to make it clear that a national park is not only a very essential contribution to the conservation of nature in its core zone, but also a clear use of leisure policy in its peripheral zone, for people – the Linzians, the Steirers, the guests – who come to this area and can experience nature in the peripheral zone, the people who can experience nature in a limited number without destroying it. I would like this National Park to initiate a process through which the people from the Reichraminger Hintergebirge, from the Haller Walls, from the Ennstal understand that this can be a new type of income acquisition, a new way of living in the most beautiful areas of Austria, in the most beautiful areas of Upper Austria not only by industry and agriculture, but also by using leisure. In this sense, I would like the National Park to grow and grow soon and that private owners will also be willing to enter their land under the legal framework of the protection of contract nature.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e18016	No one's been reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We shall come to the votes, separately according to the various Committees. First of all, vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 551 of the Supplements. To this end, Deputy Dipl.-Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I shall therefore vote first of all on the part affected by the amendment in question, finally on the remaining parts of the draft law which have not yet been voted on. Member of the Court of Justice has an amendment concerning § 3 para. 1 Z 3. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give this amendment to Hofmann their consent to a sign. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. I leave about § 3 para. 1 C 3 as amended by the Government template and please vote the Ladies and gentlemen, who want to vote in favour of a sign of approval. – This is the majority. Thus § 3 is accepted as version of the Government template. We shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft, together with the title and receipt, as amended by the Government template. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to give a sign of approval. – I notice: This has been decided unanimously. This concludes the second reading. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who also give their approval at third reading to this proposal to give a sign. I note that the draft law was adopted unanimously at third reading. This will allow us to vote on the request made by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection for the conclusion of the agreement under Article 15a B-VG between the Federal Government and the Upper Austria for the establishment and maintenance of a National Park of Upper Austrian Calc Alps and for installations in 568 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to a sign. . I note that this Article 15a has been approved unanimously. 15. Point Report of the Cultural Committee on the 1995 Cultural Report of the Federal Government (III-63/632 of the Supplements) 16. Point Report of the Cultural Committee on the Government Template (111 of the Supplements): Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of the French Republic on film-economic relations, Appendix and Exchange of Letters (633 of Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e18112	The next item is the debate on points 15 and 16 of the agenda. The debate is under one. There is no proposal for oral reporting. That's what we're going into. First of all, Mr Krüger has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e18142	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to begin by thanking the National Park experts for bringing a little life back to the already tired House with a very lively debate. Now on the subject of this item on the agenda: 1995 Cultural Report. It was quite interesting to note that, in recent days, individual journalists, individual media, have been mistakenly expected that today a performance of State Secretary Wittmann on cultural issues is taking place. . I believe that this error regarding the place of residence is a clear indication that this distribution of the place of residence is in need of revision. Because the current system of competence regarding culture and art is only very difficult to see. It not only affects the Ministry, the Federal Minister Gehrer, and the State Secretariat, or the Federal Chancellery, but also other ministries. Think, for example, of the cultural institutions belonging to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or of the military history museum belonging to the State Defense Department. In short: It is clear from this experience that there is a need for reform. It is not to be seen that cultural and art agendas are in particular included in different ministries. In my opinion, there is no factual justification for this, except – and one should make it clear if one wants it that way – the "color teaching" between red and black. Ladies and gentlemen! In the course of the formation of the new government by German Chancellor Climate, there was also a debate on the distribution of competence. It was said that a large Ministry of Education was planned in the coalition. We believe that it would make sense to bring science and research together, i.e. universities, with the Ministry of Education. There were also contributions to debate by speakers from the coalition parties, in particular the EIA, in this direction. A coordination committee was set up in which to agree on this new competence until the summer. I have already said it from this point of view: There will certainly be an agreement "until summer" – but you can be sure that there will certainly not be this agreement until the summer of 1997. But it would make sense, as has been said, to set up a large Ministry of Education and also to integrate culture and art into this ministry. No one will argue that there is a very close connex between these areas that educational questions are inseparably linked to cultural questions and to art. The current system of competence is really unsatisfying. I think there are very few people in this country who agree with this cultural and artistic division. In fact, it has a really unpleasant side-effect for me when suddenly it is said: Art is the chief thing – and one arrives at the Federal Chancellery, takes another State Secretary, and tries to attract art to the chest. This is an ideology which, in my opinion, is borne by the idea of politically empowering art as well. This is a step in the wrong direction! I think the state must provide the framework. It must act to create a free and free art and culture climate in which the artists can develop freely without having too much closeness between the state and the art. In the latter case, it is naturally obvious that a state art could arise. It is certainly a right way to allow as many private cultural initiatives, private foundations and sponsoring models as possible and to regulate as little state as possible, but as much as necessary. It is clear, however, that without a state culture promotion, many areas, especially the avant-garde areas, would collapse. This is to be said at this point too. Now to the cultural report itself: It is unfortunate that, according to the visitor statistics, there were fewer visitors to the museums in 1995 than in 1994. This shows the existing dilemma, because we know that this visitor's wound is primarily due to the fact that the Albertina's graphic collection is still inaccessible and the Technical Museum is still under conversion. This wave in the number of visitors is particularly regrettable, because it is precisely in times where tourism is situated, but on the other hand, urban tourism is flourishing and there has been an increase in the rate of growth in this area, that the wrong path is taken if one does not try to use this potential accordingly. I have already made this criticism sound in a questionable hour and would like to repeat it today: On the one hand – we from the Committee on Culture have been able to convince ourselves on the spot – one leaves the Albertina in a truly lamentable state, on the other hand, new museum projects are being carried out, for example the Museum Quarter project; on the other hand, hundreds of million schilling are being planned. This situation seems to me to be as if a householder whose house is already almost collapsing and therefore it would be obvious that he finally gets through to renovation work, lets it fall further into himself and builds a new house. In this regard, balance does not seem to me to be balanced, although it cannot be disputed that one needs a space, especially for modern art and also for the "Collection Leopold" to present them accordingly. For it is certainly an unfortunate moment to buy, on the one hand, the "Collection Leopold" for a very provocative amount – although I believe that this was a very good business for this Republic, a really good investment in the future – but on the other hand, it does not create the resources for making these great works of art, which the passionate collector Leopold has brought together, accessible to a broad public, but only at any hiking exhibitions abroad. As a positive aspect, I would like to mention the partial rights in the museums, which continue: You can see the fruits of this partial right, for example, at the Kunsthistorisches Museum. There, the revenue from the partial capacity due to the very good use of the museum shop and other legal transactions carried out are already above the revenue from ticket sales. This is to be said positively here. For it is not only to be shown negatively by the opposition, but also to speak of positive approaches here. – But this is nothing new; it has always been so. On the whole, however, I believe that the cultural report cannot be taken into account in a positive and unrestricted manner in a wide range of areas, in particular with regard to the consideration of the interests of the individual museums. There are museums that may also be too short due to their management, because their directors can articulate little or badly, while other museums are directed by directors who have a good appearance outwards and who can also use their contacts skillfully. The image of these museums will, of course, benefit from it. Overall, however, the path is not correct. Think about the works of art that are in the Albertina. Many Austrians do not know what art treasures are stored in the Albertina, for example the "beating hands" or the "hare" of Dürer. It is often unknown that we have these unique, unique and priceless art treasures that we can truly be proud of in the graphic collection in Austria. But what is the most beautiful, most impressive, and most significant graphic collection in the world, if it is not made accessible to the general public through a lack of priority?
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e18223	The next speaker is Mr Morak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e18253	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to help the memory of Mr Krüger: That we don't see the "Collection Leopold" in Vienna the way we actually wanted to see it, the Wiener FPÖ is not quite innocent. That's what I want to remind him of! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Apart from that, I would like to say: The fact that we can discuss the cultural report for the first time today is partly due to the paradigm change that has taken place in the museum area in recent years and which redefines the public's relationship with the museum institutions. Both the report and the discourse of recent years are evidence of a changed perception of the subject museum, are evidence of a change in the appearance of museums and the importance acquired by museums and their exhibitions in this country. In my view, the balance sheet is largely positive. The structural measures and the investments in this area have returned – and this can be seen where they have been completed – where they have been completed. I would just like to point out the booming urban tourism, which of course also has to do with the playing of the museum facilities in this city. The change in the presentation within the museums and their patterned presentation on the Internet is a sign that the museums are going to go to the cultural consumers, a proof of a new quality of public development. The presentation of our collections has received a new offensive value beyond the collection and research, the exhibition-making has become more important. This is almost a new location determination of our museums. In particular, the partial capacity of the museums entered into force in 1989 has contributed to this. I would like to point out that the revenue from the partial right has by no means outstripped the revenue from the permanent display collection. The ratio is 75 to 51 million, so the revenue from the partial right is almost a quarter higher. This makes it a pleasure – and one also has the appropriate will – to further develop this partial right as a step into full justice by including other institutions, namely the Hofmusik-Kapelle and the Bundesdenkmalamt, in the capacity for partial justice. However, it is also planned to extend the capacity of the partial right in a material way, through the inclusion of rental and lease into the partial right, free use of the movable and immovable federal assets, the inclusion of the exploitation of the results of conservative and technological research and of pilot projects, and – I believe this is a cruising point, which sets out the way towards more market and more personal responsibility, and also calls for the directors – by including the admission fees for the permanent exhibition collections as well as for the special exhibitions of objects of their own collection. Back to the Cultural Report: The increases in purchases – the purchase budget of the museums has increased by nearly 100 percent in the last four years, i.e. from 1991 to 1995 – as well as the strong utilization of the Hofmusik chapel. The National Library and the Monument Protection are exceptionally documented. This shows in the year of the savings package in which the Federal Government has taken exceptional savings measures in the area of monument protection, namely those of 80 million schilling, how sensitive this issue is, however, how large the public acceptance of the monument protection in our country is: A quarter of the total budget has been made up of donations. In the area of monument protection, a new objective should be formulated from the point of view of the ÖVP: Costs for objects protected by the monument should be written off in advance or used as special expenses – for this purpose we should really get through. Purposeful donations to the Bundesdenkmalamt should be tax deductible. Expenses in the interest of monument care should also be pre-tax deductions if the admission fees are not considered to be a lover, as they are nowadays. In the case of objects subject to the protection of monuments, which are owned by public-law bodies, expenses in the interest of monument maintenance should be subject to pre-tax deduction. It would also be urgently necessary to introduce a right to pay the additional costs arising exclusively from the fact that the house or church is protected by the monument – I refer, for example, to the Salzburg Old Town Conservation Act – if one had to cover a house with wooden shields instead of bricks, for example, on the order of the Monument Office. However, for the follow-up report, I could imagine – and this has been said several times in the Committee, especially by Mrs Petrovic, but also by other colleagues – that the directors of the museums should present themselves in terms of their ideas of museum work, of exhibition work, beyond the operating results, of giving up concepts, of setting up and explaining priorities, because the name is partly already the programme. On the whole, I would like to conclude by saying: It is a very informative and advertising report – about an essential potential for representation, namely the museums in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e18320	The next speaker is Mrs Klara Motter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e18345	Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! We are really celebrating a premiere today, because we are here for the first time discussing a report on the state of the federal museums. On this occasion I would like to remind you that, at the initiative of the Liberals in May 1995, there was a five-party proposal which led to this premiere. Ladies and gentlemen! Since in the museum area at least 1 billion schilling is consumed annually on tax funds, it is particularly important to learn how these funds were used or to what extent improvements are needed in this important cultural area. The 1995 cultural report, which is all four-colored and illustrated with graphics, is a serious self-representation and describes the positive state of the ten federal museums. My previous speaker presented everything in the most beautiful colors. However, we miss this cultural report that in no way have the countless problems – there are indeed countless problems with the museums as well as with the National Library and the Federal Monument Office. It reports on the positive state of the situation, but it does not address problems and does not discuss solutions. I particularly miss this cultural report that no single word is lost about a cultural policy overall concept in the museum area. Mrs. Minister! Even in the preface you have written, there is no approach to this. I mean, it would be important to present a museum concept at least in the preface! Ladies and gentlemen! If you read the cultural report carefully, there is a doubt that there is a coordinated collection policy in Austria at all. It is not possible to defend the impression that each museum or any larger section of a museum has its own collection policy or, moreover, its own policy. I would like to add an example: It is best to read the missing coordination between the museums at the opening dates of the individual exhibitions: ==References== This year, for example, an exhibition was opened at the Kunsthistorisches Museum at 7 pm, an hour later another exhibition at the Museum of Applied Art. In view of this, I believe that regular coordination talks by the directors of the houses could be very effective, at least with regard to exhibition openings. Ladies and gentlemen! I can only welcome the discussion of the latest developments in which the Federal Museums are to be divided out of the budget and released into full autonomy, especially since this is an old demand of the Liberals. I assume that the years of discussion on the disseminating of the Bundestheater have contributed to the fact that something is finally happening in the museum area. That is why we also welcome an expert hearing on this subject in the Committee on Culture. As a result of a breakdown, improvements would be made in a timely manner, and as a result of the liberation from camera music, museum tours could act as private entrepreneurs in the future, without the federal government being given the right to make use of the objects and buildings. [[Accompaniment at the Liberal Forum]] We do not want the latter either, because we believe that the Federation should remain responsible for it. In addition, the federal government remained the owner and rightholder of the property. However, the operational transactions would be in the private leadership of the institution of public law. Through the status of the public law institution, the museum managers would have the opportunity to retain rental fees and revenue, and they could, if necessary, carry out a foreign funds acquisition, i.e. they could take up loans, grants or loans, and the sponsors would be paid directly to the holding and remain there. The aim of the reform – which we Liberals are convinced – could be used to introduce operating structures with which the greatest success could be achieved at a minimum of effort. In the future, cultural economics could then be worked. [[Congratulations on the Liberals.]] Mrs Gehrer! I expect you to take seriously and support the possibilities of public debate and opinion on this exclusion in any way. As a so-called cultural land, Austria must also develop in the area of the museum landscape. Ladies and gentlemen! Back to the Cultural Report. It is gratifying that revenue from equity has increased again and in 1995 totalled 75 million. However, I would like to point out the following facts and ask you, Mrs Minister, for information: ==References====External links== July 1989 is the following – I quote – to read: "Men have to submit an annual presentation proposal and an invoice to the competent Federal Minister and to give any information on the documents of birth." In particular, my question: How does the Ministry fulfill its obligation of examination? Has it been and will the audit of the accounts be carried out at all federal museums? Which museums do these works hand over to auditors? Are samples made or evidence carefully looked at? I hope, Madam Minister, that you will answer these questions in writing. On the topic of yield opportunities for museums, I still agree with the following comments: A limited exhibition right has been introduced within the framework of the last copyright law. The author may be entitled to appropriate remuneration if works of the visual arts are issued on a fee for work purposes. However, in this field of application of the new § 16b is already controversial. Thus, the collecting society of the visual artists is convinced that special exhibitions in the museums are subject to a fee, while the directors of the museums feel that the § 16b Copyright Act does not address the special exhibitions of the houses. In order to counter these conflicting interpretations, we Liberals have submitted a request for the right to issue an exhibition, because we believe that it is the duty of a rule of law to formulate laws clearly and not to wait for the case law of the courts, and to amend those laws which appear to be inconvenient. In this case, we are convinced that § 16b of the Copyright Act must be repealed. I therefore invite all of you, ladies and gentlemen, to join this motion, which is already in the Committee on Justice and Citizens' Rights and is being discussed - hopefully soon -! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Finally, some remarks on the area of Albertina and the commitment of the federal government of 230 million Schilling. Mrs. Minister! When will the construction finally begin? To the area of museum quarter – for me still an unsatisfied cultural initiative in Austria – my question: Is there now a final decision by the Federal Monumental Office, and when is the reconstruction expected to begin? on topic National library: According to the cultural report, there are still no automatic fire alarm devices. Why not? We also know that books cannot be restored because no funds are available. We know that newspapers and magazines are breaking down and so the afterworld is lost, because there is no money available to make microfilmings. – I only show some of the failures in the National Library. Although more financial resources were urgently needed, the budget dropped from 229 to 226 million schilling. Mrs Minister, I urgently appeal to you: There is a need for action in order to be the largest library in Austria for the 21st century. To prepare for the 19th century, including in the field of electronics! Finally, I would like to stress once again that the cultural report describes only the positive circumstances in the museum area and conceals all critical circumstances. This is a reason why we reject this report. The second reason is that the entire situation of the museums is not satisfactory, since neither the renovation of the Albertina has been initiated nor the Technical Museum has been reopened after seven years of closing. It's a curiosum: In the seven years of closure of the Technical Museum, staff costs remain the same. I don't know why, if no visitors come, the personnel costs will have to remain the same. [[Abg. May. Peter: These were the construction workers!]] I do not think everyone is involved in the reconstruction. That is a question you should answer us once. The construction of the museum quarter was also not started. The distribution of the museums is being discussed, but it does not indicate when this distribution will be carried out. Mrs. Minister! Allow me to quote you: "The preservation and opening up of Austrian cultural goods is therefore the main responsibility of Austrian cultural policy in order to open up these treasures to the coming generations." – I hope and wish that these words will soon follow suit.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e18405	The next speaker was Mr. Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e18427	Mr President. High house! The question is whether a cultural debate should be boring or not. I believe that the exponents would be able to have a more exciting discussion. If honourable Member Morak says that there has been an extensive discourse on the self-understanding of museums, what country did he talk about: Austria? I recommend that we really conduct this discourse. Because I very much appreciate the Minister and believe that she can also conduct this discourse, I repeat here the question I have already raised in committee: According to what overall concept, according to what understanding does this actually end? I can praise this report very much, I like it, and I like colorful pictures. Since my childhood I have always enjoyed looking at colorful pictures – why should this change with increasing age? In this sense, I like the art report. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: You should keep your child's mind!]] But I must say that I am not going to be smart from it as regards understanding and overall conception behind it, which museum director with what concept does and why he does it. What is the purchasing policy behind it? I can't figure this out. [[Abg. Dr Schmidt: It's in there!]] It's not in it, and it's, I think, a lot based on coincidences. Is this randomity intention? – This is the crucial question. Is there a concept of inconsistency behind that – which can be a concept? – But then, Mrs. Minister, be so kind and don’t let us go into the dark of the museum! Five to twelve can no longer be light, except the safety lamps or the lamps required by Mrs. Motter for the fire alarm devices. Please tell us! This, of course, also requires courage to conflict and risk-takingness. You have to "out" yourself. It must be said: That's about my concept. But this also makes you approachable. We can, of course, continue to talk like this: The bale is brittle; there we need some schilling for some picture frame; somewhere the tiles on the toilet are already cracked and have to be renewed and at all – on this level we can also continue to discuss. But I mean, you can do it differently. I think you have the competence to do so and a growing inner willingness. You only have to wake and challenge these completely so that you really do. I see it: They have almost made the decision to do so. "Art is a molded demand for impossibility" – as an old friend and follower I quote Camus; unfortunately, God never allowed me to meet him personally, but I very much appreciate him: This demand for the impossible should, I believe, also be brought into this debate and discourse. It was – and it was mentioned here again, I looked at it even more closely – another aspect under the title "Exhibitions of the Federal Museums abroad". At least there, in this manageable area – it covers one and a half pages – one should ask: With what concept do we go abroad with which exhibition? What do we want to tell the Spanish, the French, the Japanese? Is it by chance that imperial treasures will be issued in Japan? I can still understand that one presents that there. But in Germany, in Finland – why, why? Has it been a success? What's behind that? Why do we bring "Messenger, Löffel, Gabel – Museum of Crafts" in Frankfurt? Why just in Frankfurt? What is the background? I deliberately shove it a little bit and I may now be unfair. Part of an answer had already been heard in the Committee. I think, however, that such questions serve the discourse that Mr Morak has asked in his own way today, by saying that he already exists – knowing that the following speakers will, of course, ask for this. A summary of the sustainable concept for all Federal Art Museums: The debate on the museum quarter should be critically reflected here, instead of saying: Hurra, it's finally coming, we feel it's coming, the excavators are already driving around the area. Rather, one has to ask particularly critically who has cooked and boiled it and what everything was in the concept and what has not been achieved. On the question of marketing: We can not only find that there are declining numbers of visitors, especially among the paying visitors, but we must ask for marketing. Is there an overall marketing concept? For example, if Noever is particularly talented because he is a wonderful self-accompaniment, is he doing something better in marketing? This is what I would like to ask for, and if we have more time, the debate on it will lead to questions of art mediation, of classical modernism, of purchasing policy – loud points that are really important. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You have a lot of time anyway! He's got a lot of time!]] To a visit recently – I know this is not part of your department, but rather of the Minister of Defense, but it is also my concern, despite the somewhat different security policy ideas I have expressed recently – in the military history museum: This would be a classic example that could be used to discuss. What self-understanding does the Army History Museum have? Do we all go by there with an open mouth and admire what eras and methods people have killed each other as efficiently as possible, or can we really learn from them – I don't suppose that –? [[Abg. Arbitrators: Celebrate defeats!]] Could it be turned into a "peace museum"? [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Alliance Museum! Dreibund-Museum!]] That would be a bit of a reflection that could be made, and that would be my demand. For this discourse and for critical reflection I advocate, for an uncomfortable cultural concept! But don't confuse court music chapel with court reporting, dear colleague Morak! I would be very precise in this.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e18518	Mrs. Dr. Petrovic is the next speaker.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e18540	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Perhaps it is now possible to develop a thought in the context of a plenary debate and to achieve a result which seems to be desired by several political groups. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] Mrs. Federal Minister! I also think that this report is a good report, a report that we are happy to take on board. That we still cannot agree with him is not because this report would not be appealing from its kind of work, but because a political philosophy – what do you want with the Federal Museums? – is not really recognizable. We have tried to hold this debate in committee, but we have not got far there. You said in the Committee, Mrs Bundesminister, that the philosophy of the museums is being developed in the individual houses. In principle, I think the museum autonomy is correct, I would even say that the individual museums need much more autonomy. Finally, I will come back to the question of autonomy. It must be noted, however, that certain policy guidelines are necessary. You have taken over a post, Mrs. Federal Minister, who has gone through many different hands. It cannot be expected that in a very short time something will be put on the table by you that needs appropriate preparatory work. We could understand on this question that the members of the Committee on Culture, along with your ministry, are developing an appropriate approach. Without wishing to cut down on the decisions of the individual museum directors, for example, I miss statements on a collective strategy for museums, which is bought according to which principles. Do you seek to perfect yourself in areas where the house is already quite well equipped, or do you want to enlarge the broad overview? Do the museums have a clear research assignment or not? Just collect them, make things visible, or should they also deliver research results? What about a policy of renewal, with modern concepts of museums, involving educational ideas? – This is something that should not be developed in the individual homes, but that we need a political debate about. It would not in any way limit the autonomy of the individual museums, but rather increase the extent to which such a political concept could be used. Perhaps a fundamental question can be raised by the example of the museums, namely whether the very uniform forms of action in the field of administration are still in modern practice. I have the impression that in the area of sovereignty management the control possibilities are too low, including the control possibilities of Parliament, given the dangers posed by these areas of administration. I only refer to civil rights and the risk of abuse. Control options need to be further developed. In the face of police, military or various intelligence activities, there is still the feeling – I think, not just with me – that we need to emphasize the rule of law and improve control possibilities. The same service and budget law is not at all suitable for private administration. If we want the state to have a mission and carry it out in areas such as the environment, social affairs and, above all, culture, we need appropriate forms of action. Such forms of action are painful today. All the museum directors complain that they are still in a corset, and say that they could work a lot economically while carrying out a public cultural or educational mission, but that they need budgetary sovereignty; that they may not need so many plan posts if they have more autonomy, greater freedoms to move, and a medium-term planning horizon, so that they would not be threatened from one year to another by great uncertainty. They know that these are not general statements, but that in Austria specific names are associated with them: for example, Albertina or the Technical Museum. In the Committee you said: We have a total amount, and if the establishment of the Technical Museum is nowhere budgeted, then we have to decompose it from the other museums. – It must not be, and so it cannot be. Mrs. Federal Minister! They have a very clear majority in this House, as I think, with every support in that culture costs money, a cultural mission for museums costs money, and that this money cannot be dealt with as with the content of communication vessels, so that the funds needed for a large-scale project go down to the other persons involved in the current operation or elsewhere. But without a political concept, it is very difficult to stand up for it. For simply to say, it takes more money without seeing a corresponding philosophy, this can probably be difficult or not decided in times like these for budgetary reasons. Finally, I present a personal concern and thus return to the museum philosophy, which I would carry out with a very clear research assignment. It's about the Racial Hall in the Natural History Museum. I am very glad, Mrs Federal Minister, that this hall was closed under your leadership, because I think he has presented a concept that is no longer acceptable and scientifically clearly obsolete. But I also think that, in the sense of scientific documentation, this was once accessible to the general public. It's supposed to be documented. There should never be opened again in this form, but there should be a follow-up exhibition. Also for planning these serious and sensible, you certainly have wide support from this house. Therefore, my appeal again: Together we develop a museum philosophy within the framework of this house! Secondly, Mrs Bundesminister: If you are in the government in favour of creating flexible forms of action within the framework of private administration, while respecting public procurement and public property, we do not need to privatise, because otherwise it will no longer be possible or recognizable. Thirdly, Mrs Bundesminister: With regard to these concrete projects, you will have the support of this House if we also hear clear and clear words from you in which direction you intend to go in all these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e18607	Mrs Brinek. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e18628	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Allow me to begin with a few comments on the comments made by my previous speakers. Colleague Cap has proven himself in a very classical form, namely with the discourse of the crisis and the "Hofbreichung", as "'68er" – perhaps more conservative than he ever wanted to be. I'll leave him with the evaluation. He also managed to tell colleagues Morak about the "horizontal report". Perhaps he has practised in the practice of "horizontal reporting" which we know from the reports of the other Minister of Art. - That's just a note. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: But he did it!]] He has done it, yes, that is a question of assessment which we could discuss together. The cultural report is for discussion. I see him in relation to a subject that we discussed on the morning. Flexible working hours increase leisure time; Families increasingly want to practice the cultural practices of Sunday and follow them. The Federal Museums are in this respect ace, I mean, and they help to answer families and young people when they are looking for leisure activities that are not just monotonous cultural consumption in the sense of TV consumption or stay in virtual spaces. In all these houses, Mrs Petrovic, I do not have to invite you to convince yourself – great visitor offers and educational concepts for all ages. There are children's guided tours, children's catalogues, co-mage tours, participation exercises, support for the design of project lessons and projects for schools, seminars for teachers, teachers' guided tours as well as individual and global cooperation offers. – Please do not present things as if nothing had happened in this respect! I also expect that the synergies mentioned in the report will be strengthened, which are in the association of the school department, the adult education department and the cultural department. In this respect, it is useful to unite these departments in a department under one roof. Propos Synergies: The museum quarter is addressed. Allow me to express the hope in the long history that this woman's minister will succeed in this legislative period of the National Council this year and finally start the implementation of the Museum Quarter. – What is the fascinating thing about the neighborhood? – It is the opportunity to unite under one roof various art and cultural genres, various cultural and art sectors, and that in a central place, not somewhere in the suburban meadow, but in the vicinity of traditional museums, where good cooperation could be achieved in relation to collections, exhibitions and so on. Other metropolises have already gone this way; they have successfully passed it. Vienna is not supposed to stand up for anything. You can also learn from a long history. Ladies and gentlemen! I think we should remember what is meant by this vivid cultural achievement. The everyday objects of our day are of ever shorter service life. The art and cultural objects are also often built on disappearances from the beginning – think only of traditional concept art or video installations. Earlier, the average age of things was higher than that of humans. Today it's the other way round. From the point of view of consumer goods – for consumption and digestion, if you want to – it is increasingly difficult to remember, preserve and preserve them. The institutions mentioned in the cultural report – federal museums, monument protection institutions – are an excellent way to remind us of this memory. The report is highly designed in the sense of self-implementation, namely a high aesthetic claim. The fact that it could still be expanded in terms of content without being centralist and without any reference to the concept should not be put into debate. We are at the beginning of a discussion. If we lead them together, we will achieve a good result. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e18666	Mrs Gehrer has now been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e18687	Mr President. High house! I am pleased that today the National Council is intensively dealing with the 1995 Cultural Report. To create clarity: For what I am responsible, this is clearly read in front of the cultural report, namely for Federal Museums, Austrian National Library, Austrian Phonothek, Hofmusikkapelle, Bundesdenkmmalamt. There are therefore no problems in demarcation, but there will always be a need for different departments to work together in different areas. There you will never be able to make very precise demarcations. The report gives a description of the work in these areas. I think these areas are very important for our cultural life and for the consciousness of our nation. This raises a number of questions that have been raised. As regards the number of visitors, although this was down in 1995 compared with 1994, which is to be read in the report, the 1996 figures say that the number of visitors has increased by 20 percent compared with 1995. In January 1997, the previous year saw an increase of 23 per cent, although visitors in all of Europe – whether in Paris in the Louvre – or in Germany – fall by about 24 per cent. We can therefore see an increasing trend in these areas. Another question concerns the review of the museums. To this end, I can see that the museums of Section 4 in our Federal Ministry are constantly being reviewed and that two museums, the Museum of Modern Art and the Museum of Art History, are being examined by economic operators. The various construction measures have already been discussed in detail in the Committee. In the Albertina there is a fixed planning for the daylight storage. The renovation of the house is carried out by train. I have already found in the committee that, even if we had the money, we could not do it in a year because we lack the necessary specialist firms to enable it to be implemented immediately. To the Technical Museum it is to be said that the operation is not completely set up and the employees very well collect and continue research. Now I come to the question that is being asked again and again on the issue of collection policy and museum policy. – Ladies and gentlemen! I am convinced that, as political mandates, we must define as politically responsible framework conditions, but that we must not, with very precise guidelines, govern the work of the individual houses. For this the houses are too different. The cultural report clearly states, for example, the collection policy of the Museum Modern Art/Stiftung Ludwig on pages 33 to 35. In addition, the collection policy structure of the museum's holdings is set out on pages 80 and 81. So this is very probably already presented there. I would also like to inform you of the political guidelines that apply to all museums. For all museums, they must collect and complete their specific collections, which are very different – the Natural History Museum is quite different from the Museum of Modern Art. The Museum Modern Art/Foundation Ludwig advises the purchase at in-depth meetings with the Foundation Council. This is decided by experts. It is about preserving existing objects, restoring and securing them, and presenting the objects. It is about research work on these projects, and it is also about special exhibitions in which certain parts are shown over and over again. It is about bringing youth to our roots and culture. All museums have the task of doing museum pedagogical work, doing museum didactic work and leading the youth to art and culture. It is about showing not diversity or mass, but important objects exemplaryly. It is about the aesthetic representation of the individual objects. It is about building a public-friendly infrastructure with modern measures, and it is about adapting to the modern service and information society. In particular, this adjustment also serves to further develop the museums to a partial capacity in areas where the state is not in any way responsible. But this makes it possible for individual museums to work out their own collection policy themselves and to have them granted themselves. I'll get you together. For a positive approach to the future, we need to know our cultural roots and our past. Museums are the most important contribution; they must be an important part of cultural policy. With the reconstruction of history, a very important contribution to the preservation of our cultural heritage is being made in our museums. This also applies to the National Library and the Monument Protection. The protection of monuments also gives rise to an incentive for economic development, because every schilling we invest in monument protection causes another 10 s to be spent in the general economy. I believe that these institutions are an essential part of our culture, and I am pleased that all the political groups have been declared here that this part of the cultural area is getting such important political support from them.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e18754	The next speaker is Mrs Onodi. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e18775	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! If you think of federal museums and follow the debate on this subject, you can often get the impression that these are only collections of visual art. However, I would like to say that Focus on the second largest of the Federal Museums, namely the Natural History Museum: For this museum, the federal government has the second highest expenditure. In 1995, this was about 142 million schilling. The Natural History Museum also includes the second highest number of planning sites. The revenue, ladies and gentlemen, is rather modest in comparison to expenditure of only around 4.7 million. The number of visitors to the Natural History Museum declined dramatically again after a positive development between 1991 and 1993. This is no wonder, since the elaborate expansions, such as the attic construction and the construction of the deep store, have had a positive effect on the infrastructure of the house, but have not actually made sense of any effective restoration effects for the visitor himself. There are also no significant activities in the field of attractive special exhibitions. Moreover, although visitor-friendly facilities or the presentation of exhibitions in modern pedagogical terms are planned, they are still largely missed. Ladies and gentlemen! Especially at the Natural History Museum, however, there is a very special task due to the nature and scope of the collection: The preparation of themes relating to nature and the history of nature for the public is a call for discussion with the collective consciousness. In particular, respect for science and research must be stressed that, particularly in the field of museums in this field, the presentation and display of links of significant socio-political importance are important. The Natural History Museum is, as it were, an ideal "introductory museum" for children and young people, since for this age group the fascination of nature is particularly great. That is why we expect new impulses in this respect. It would be very unfortunate if, despite the great use of financial resources of this museum, this mission could not really be fulfilled. It is therefore necessary to present a clear concept for the natural history museum, which is also less respected by the media, which clearly increases the attractiveness of the house. The fact that positive developments are in the area of feasibility has shown the development of the museums for visual art in recent years.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e18818	The next speaker is Mrs Jäger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e18840	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The present cultural report is sophisticated and offers a good overview of the tasks and achievements of the Federal Museums and the Federal Monumental Office, as well as other institutions, although – already mentioned – target formulations and problem areas have been far too little addressed. I would now like to confine myself to a part of the work of the Federal Office. Ladies and gentlemen! The value of the work of the Bundesdenkmalamt is not only apparent from this catalogue. For example, you only need to see the monuments in Upper Austria, such as Freistadt, Braunau, Steyr or others. There has been a very encouraging development in recent years following the destructions and the building sins of the 1960s and 1970s. The conservation and restoration of monuments is in our all interest. The preservation of historical towns and monuments is important not only for tourism and urban tourism, but also for our own quality of life, for our well-being and also for our identity. However, not only public buildings need to be preserved and renovated: Most of the maintenance is reserved for the owners of private houses. This is often a major burden on citizens in this country. This is not just about the financial burden. These citizens often feel eroded when the Federal Monumental Office imposes certain requirements on them. Today, the Bundesdenkmalamt has very often struggled with the fact that many conservative and scientific objectives are opposed to public demands and to the aesthetic values of the population. For years, the number of vocations against the decisions of the Bundesdenkmalamt has increased, leading to ever more complex and longer-lasting under-protection procedures. This is, of course, a major problem in view of the very modest human and financial possibilities of the state monument care. We must bear in mind that in 1995 there were painful financial cuts, which was rebalanced thanks to God in 1996 and 1997. I think it is particularly important that financial grants for the Bundesdenkmalmamt flow even in times of savings packages. This is important in so far as this is encouraging: This is particularly the job creation in small businesses on the ground. At the same time, of course, it is also about the preservation of traditional craftsmanship. In my opinion, there must be intensive cooperation today between the Federal Monuments Office, the State Conservatories and regional and local authorities. There are very good and very valuable examples for this: I am thinking, for example, of my own home town of Pupping, where it has actually succeeded in restoring the monastery, the church, the surrounding farms and also private houses in a truly exemplary cooperation between the population and the authorities and in making them very exemplary. Today, it is also about actually forcing and shaping the autonomy and partial rights of the Federal Office, as requested by the Court of Auditors in 1993. It also seems important to me that the list of monuments in progress be completed and published as quickly as possible, so that all listed objects in Austria are actually listed and logged and every citizen and every citizen can learn about it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and with representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] 0.3 0
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e18896	Mr Dietachmayr is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e18917	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! "More mobility should come into the museum landscape," said the Federal Minister recently at a meeting of the Foundation Council of the "Collection Leopold" in Vienna. That's what I'm giving her! We need to find new solutions that trigger the administration of museums from the constraints of bureaucratic structures. Although this cultural report is very complex, it has become all the more clear and therefore very valuable. It provides an interesting and comprehensive overview. In view of the many issues that have already been addressed here, I would just like to address one area of the Federal Museums very briefly. Once it was the old-fashioned task of collecting, preserving and opening up, today's new, holistic museum concept covers all areas of the contemporary society and conveys the idea that museums represent important sites of non-university research and encounter with the entire school and education sector. However, it also results in very personal-intensive establishments with well-trained scientific staff such as preparatory staff and technicians working in laboratories, libraries and in the administration of a contemporary museum culture. Depending on the theme of the museum, the Federal Museums also have the task of devoting themselves to scientific research and the development of the arts in addition to the traditional tasks previously mentioned, such as collection and preservation. There is no doubt that the Austrian Museum of Applied Art is also a glimpse of the history of the Austrian museum of the present. Founded in 1864, the MAK was generalized between 1988 and 1993 and completely redesigned and renovated with additional new buildings. However, there was also a fundamental and fundamental re-definition with the aim of creating an art museum in the broadest sense and of interest to a new, especially young audience, for the museum. These efforts were rewarded – and this should be said here – so that the MAK was awarded the 1996 Council of Europe Museum Prize in April last year. Now allow me a short trip outside of Vienna: In Linz, for a few months, a house where the future will be real will stir up the minds. The city of Linz has created a museum of new types, namely the Ars Electronic Center. With its future-lap, the Ars Electronic Center offers an interdisciplinary work platform for science, art and entertainment as well as for the economy. Artists, technicians and the economy will be provided with the unique infrastructure of the Ars Electronic Center for Research, Development and Presentation in Europe. It also serves as a media center and interface between art, technology and economy. The Ars Electronic Center in Linz affects the innovative atmosphere in the Linz Economic Area very positively and promotes interdisciplinary cooperation between business, research and art. ==References== In September of last year, this completely new type of museum was built with a total effort of 180 million schilling from the city of Linz and offers space on five levels for the technologies and ideas of the 21st century. ==References== It is a museum of the future for getting to know, for trying, for self-design and for interactive learning. Once a year Linz is also the center of computer culture. The AEC Festival, founded in 1979 with the aim of an open encounter between artists and scientists, has since become a world renowned forum for art and technology. Finally, I would like to mention that the international appearance of the Ars Electronic Center not only affects the many foreign guests of the house, but also causes enormous international media echo. The world's most renowned American computer magazine "Computerworld" in an article calls the AEC the best computer museum in the world and notes with regret that there is no establishment of this quality in America. Ladies and gentlemen! With this trip to Linz, I would like to stress once again how important it is to allow art and culture to develop freely and in an ever-changing society. The value of our society is measured by future generations by what we have created in cultural goods and left to the next generation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e18975	Hiezu is now still a Member's magistrate. Reported on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e18996	Mr President. Minister! The first-time cultural report actually bears a false name, because it is in reality not a cultural report, but a report about the Federal Museums, the National Library, the Austrian Phonothek, the Hofmusikchapel and the work of the Federal Monumental Office. In this respect, it also correlates with the wrong name "Federal Ministry of Cultural Affairs", because the name of the ministry refers only to the areas mentioned. However, it should be noted that this report, which covers a five-year period of observation, provides an excellent overview of the development of the museum in Austria. It is very clearly divided. It offers a lot of image material, and it has a very clear statistical part from which the most important parameters of development can be seen quickly and efficiently. In general, it is to be said that the Federal Museums and the other institutions mentioned above carry out their task of collecting, preserving and deciding, thus contributing a very important part to the definition and preservation of Austria as a cultural nation. Now for some details, first at the admission prices: By far, entry prices do not cover expenditure, but are blatantly below them, which is understandable in view of the great effort for conservation, collection and extensive activity of these institutions. The revenue is constantly about 53 million schilling, and it must be noted that international admission prices are to be considered extremely favourable; they are between 30 s and 60 s for full payers. Of course, admission prices are a sensitive matter, but I think an increase is justified in order to be able to cover the high costs in some way. Internationally, much higher prices are required in equivalent museums and are also paid; however, the number of visitors is not lower than in Austria. It is gratifying that the novelle to the Research Investment Act in 1991 brought to these museums partial rights and that 75 million schillings were made available with partial rights in 1995 an amount above the admission fees. It is therefore obvious that partial jurisdiction has proved to be successful. As far as the number of visitors is concerned, it has already been found that they are unfortunately declining, and it must be said that in 1996, due to the Monet exhibition, they have been able to increase again. That's already been mentioned. Nevertheless, the decline in visitors in the area of the Kunsthistorisches Museum is striking: From 1991 to 1995, he fell from 1,51 million visitors to 1.38 million. A few words for structural restoration: In 1987 and 1990 the Council of Ministers adopted a million museums with the aim of improving the construction substance and adapting it. The renovation of the Austrian Gallery has now been completed. Partial renovations were also completed at the Art and Natural History Museum. The transfer of the Technical Museum is expected to take place soon. The investment programme is limited by 3.3 billion schilling, with striking that the cost of the renovation is usually well above the estimates. Although 90 percent of the funds are also made available through the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs and therefore you, Mrs. Federal Minister, are not directly responsible for the department, there are significant building costs in some adaptations. The construction cost is particularly striking at the Technical Museum in Vienna. The building of the Technical Museum on Mariahilfer Straße was in a generally bad condition, so that a general renovation was justified. For this, 400 million schillings were planned. One has opted for a very complex form of renovation, among other things the domes have been lifted by hydraulics, which has led to enormous problems and partly chaotic conditions during the renovation. And if the director of the Technical Museum has been informed that he does not need 50 million, but 220 million schilling, which will certainly double the cost of general renovation and will be beyond the three-quarters of a billion schilling, then it must be noted that this sum would also have allowed us to build a new museum that would meet all modern requirements, especially since the space needed for a timely presentation of the objects in the fields of energy and raw materials, industry, industry, technology, information and communication is very large. The fact that only minor spatial gains could be achieved with the funds invested is one aspect. The Technical Museum will certainly become a very beautiful museum. It is, however, almost adjacent to a shield-citizen's stroke that, after the reconstruction and despite the gain in space for the area of transport and thus for the core area, namely locomotives, automobiles, motorcycles, ships and aircraft, there is no room for space. In this respect, the responsibility of the current Director will still be checked. One can assume, therefore, that one needs a new transport museum where the objects of the Technical Museum can be exhibited. And it will be quite unique in the history of the museum that you will generalize a museum, increase the exhibition space by 30 percent and then have no space for the core area. A few words on the distribution of the Federal Museums: As you know, Mrs Minister, the directors of the Federal Museums are very skeptical about your plans for disseminating from camera music. Because they fear – similar to the directors of the Bundestheater – to come under the wheels in the event of a breakdown. The research and conservation of a museum heritage is certainly different from a production plant focused on profit. The State has, of course, the obligation to preserve, maintain and remediate its heritage. Art usually withdraws from the usual market mechanisms. I would therefore like to ask you, in view of the great importance of the museums and in the interest of preserving the Austrian cultural heritage, to take very careful action and to subject the forthcoming exclusion to an intensive parliamentary consultation. Other cultural nations such as France would not allow such treatment of their museums, federal theatres and cultural institutions! Finally, it can be found that, with all the criticism in detail, the present cultural report is not only visible by its proper form, but is an excellent instrument to explain the most important parameters of Austrian museum policy, in a modern form. It is thus a good starting point for the annual reports on the museums to be managed by the Federal Ministry of Education, the Austrian National Library, the Phonothek, the Hofmusikkapelle and the Bundesdenkmalamt, according to the resolution of the National Council of 1966. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e19066	There's no more word message here. The debate is closed. The rapporteur's conclusion has not been reached. We shall now proceed to the vote. - I ask you to take the seats. I shall vote on each of the Committee's proposals separately. Firstly, we shall vote on the request from the Committee on Culture to take note of this report III-63 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to be a sign of approval. - That's the majority. This report has been adopted by a large majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the Committee on Culture, the conclusion of the State Treaty, the Appendix and the Exchange of Letters, in 111 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for the approval to give an appropriate sign. – The approval was granted unanimously. I adopt the unanimous decision-making procedure. 17. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (590 of the Supplements): The Federal Act amending the Federal Finance Act in 1997 (2. BFG-Novelle 1997) (634 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e19130	We're coming to the 17th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are immediately entering the debate. I shall be the first speaker to give Mr Mag. Screaming the word. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e19160	Mr President. Federal Minister for Finance! Ladies and gentlemen! The opposite 2. Federal Finance Act Novelle deals with increasing expenditure in the federal budget and simultaneously increasing revenue by 3.3 billion schilling each. Federal Minister! The additional costs of the federal government result from the financing of hospitals, the tax relief required due to the adjustment of the tax on turnover, the resulting less revenue from the hospitals and, also as a result, the reduced income of the Federal Government in connection with the dissemination of the Federal Forests. Another disadvantage is that there is additional expenditure in the field of labour market services. Federal Minister! These expenses were not planned, that is clear. ==References====External links== Federal Finance Act Novelle necessary. The revenue-side solution is disturbing to us in this respect. Because advance payments for pension benefits have been simply paid into the budget by the Postsparkas. These are pocket-player tricks that you simply can't use in the budget if you're a decent merchant! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Second point: One has drawn a special dividend from the Federal Forests. For these special dividends, the Federal Forests even had to borrow loans on the capital market. That's what I'm holding: A dividend can only be paid if a profit has been generated. A dividend, on the other hand, cannot be paid if credit is to be received! – This is the second pocket player trick, Mr. Bundesfinanzminister, which was applied to this Federal Finance Act Novelle. Mr Bundesfinanzminister! It also seems to me that the statement of Jim Rogers, the so-called stock exchange and foreign exchange gurus, may also apply to Austria. He meant: France falsifies the books – he meant the books of the finances of this Republic – so that even the Italians, who were not yet squeaky, "stayed away". That means: In order to achieve the convergence criteria for the euro, European finance ministers who do not manage to meet these criteria are trying to achieve the goal with pocket-player tricks and with falsifications of books. But this is not the way to proceed, Minister of Finance, because this euro will eventually be on the verge of the international capital market and the international foreign exchange market! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Bundesfinanzminister! You have announced this to us, and we thank each of you for receiving a Wifo report on the impact of economic and monetary union. This Wifo report is very interesting. You, Minister of Finance, should take a closer look at this. We have debated the effects of this monetary union very much for one hour in the Committee after we received it, and you have answered very detailed questions in this one hour and have tried to find out the advantages and disadvantages. I would recommend that you turn to page 63 of this Wifo report. In fact, we have debated very hard in the Committee on the stability of a new currency, and you said: This is a stable currency, it is simply being exchanged, and the question of external stability is actually uninteresting. Mr Bundesfinanzminister! However, it is also necessary to state that the price level in Austria will increase by around 6.75 per cent in the medium term, that the hard currency countries will have an increase in the price level and the currency countries will have a reduction in the price level. All in all, it means: If this Wifo report is to be applied, we will be the losers of this monetary union. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Based on what assumption?]] Mr President, I should like to thank Read page 26 of the Wifo report. It is the famous scenario of social democracy that we say: Someone goes to Finland and starts a journey through Europe with 100 000 S for the purpose of money change and then arrives at 15. EU country – and has only more than 50,000 S! Mr Bundesfinanzminister! [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: What does this have to do with inflation?]] That's a cocky argument. It is about the question of exchange rate and exchange costs. [[Abg. Schillinge can't be exchanged!]] This would mean that economically crazy tourists travel across Europe, switching from Finland coming on the border with Sweden their all Finn market in Swedish crowns, then in Danish crowns and then in English pounds, instead of always changing as much money as they need for the respective country. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: What does this have to do with external stability?]] Mr Bundesfinanzminister, this is an argument that you are trying to spread to the people in the question of Euro Sand! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That, Mr President, is the reason why, just as we rejected the 1997 budget, we also rejected the 2nd. Decline the Federal Finance Act-Novelle.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e19256	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Gartlehner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e19277	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! In brief, Mr Schreiner said: I do not think it is ideal for us to have great stock exchange gurus comment, and it is not fair if a stock exchange guru accuses the French Minister of Finance of manipulation on his books and you now want to submit Mr Edlinger to it. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: He only knows the stock exchange!]] I believe that people who work primarily with virtual capital – that would be, I think, also interesting to you as a liberal economist – should not judge and judge their statements as the people's host and people who have to act with real capital. In principle, the government template: We will vote in favour of this government proposal. These are essentially competence adaptations, which are now also implemented in the Federal Finance Act, and agreements with the local authorities or disbursements of the Federal Forests and other societies. – In this sense, I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e19315	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Hazelsteiner. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e19336	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Finance Act Novelle 1997 has undoubtedly become necessary for reasons already mentioned. There is a reform of the ministry, there are disbursements, and there are changes in the financial balance. The technical need is therefore undisputed. That you have taken advantage of this opportunity, Mr Federal Minister, to carry out some kind of balance sheet extension by adding a significant billion to both revenue and expenditure, I believe, too, a necessity. There is certainly a need on the expenditure side. We can imagine the reasons. We still have financial problems in the health field, and we certainly have underestimated approaches to the federal pension subsidies. On the revenue side, Mr Federal Minister, I think it will be a little more problematic. I believe that the approaches you have chosen are realistic, but I also believe that you are selling them twice. Unfortunately, I cannot prove or predict this to you, because this Federal Finance Act-Novelle as a whole, like the Federal Finance Act itself, is difficult to see and understand for not every day with the budget and with the budget implementation. From the documents provided, we cannot produce causal contexts in a reasonable time and with reasonable effort. Federal Minister! If we briefly highlight the extension of the balance sheet, we note alarming signals in the OECD report, in the Wifo report and in revenue development, especially in the development of VAT, VAT. I do not want to overestimate the forecasts or findings of these reports, but I believe that they are a certain alarm for the 1998 budget and perhaps also for the implementation of the 1997 budget. It would be much easier for all of us to discuss these difficult-to-avoid developments if we were to have a suitable instrument for this, and if we were to take a step further on how budgets could be presented more manageable and comparable. What is true of the economy – that it is not possible to draw up budgets or business plans until the past period can be estimated in some way – would also be a reasonable principle for budget creation and budget implementation. We are always discussing the clearance of one year only if two more budgets have now been adopted. We can therefore hardly draw conclusions and deductions from the Court of Auditors' audited accounts. I therefore allow myself to make two requests. One refers to the fact that in future we will have the Court of Auditors' auditing of the accounts for one year within five months of the end of the year. This corresponds to the time limit laid down in the Commercial Code for large industrial enterprises. If the legislator believes that this is reasonable for a large industrial enterprise, then he should go ahead with a good example and apply the same strict standards to himself. This, together with an amendment to the Rules of Procedure, would enable us to use the accounts of the previous year as a basis for all budgetary discussions in the future. I believe that this would be a valuable aid to all of us who are concerned with the budget and who are discussing these problems in the Committee on Budgets. I have already announced the second, Mr Federal Minister, to you in committee. I am very unhappy that, in the case of government reforms or new ministerial laws, any comparability in the approaches and groups is lost. This second request aims to ensure that what has changed can, so to speak, be understood historically. This is also a matter of course in the economy, because otherwise there is a complete lack of decision-making. I hope that this request will be reviewed by your officials for its feasibility and that, in the end, the good will will will will be to create these essential conditions, which are more than just work aids or reliefs, so that our budgetary policy, but above all our parliamentary control of the budget, can be made more efficient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e19384	Mr. Dr. Haselsteiner! The two requests you mentioned are obviously self-employed requests which you will make and which now have no influence on the course of this debate. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: That's it! I just mentioned them!]] The next speaker is Mr Dkfm. Mühlbachler. Maximum speaking time: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e19414	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! I would like to say the words of Dr. Pick up hazelsteiner. In fact, it is only very difficult for us to control the execution of accounts. I would therefore ask the Ministry to consider how this control can be formally explained in future, so that it can also be understood by Members. It is not important that the works we are provided are absolutely complete and that each item is mentioned in them, but that we agree that the relevant deviations are presented and the others are suppressed. I know that there is also a need for legal changes. We can discuss this in the Committee on Budgets, and I believe that this could provide all Members with a satisfactory instrument. With another thought, I would like to relate to the statements made by Mr Mag. Scramble: Mr Mag. Schreiner, it is true that in this Wifo study there are several scenarios, but I believe that in this short period one cannot explain these scenarios in such a way that the full truth content of the individual statements would be given. From the outset, putting a 6.75 per cent devaluation into space by participating in monetary union is, I believe, not allowed. There is a need for additional explanations on the conditions under which this could actually be the case. Ladies and gentlemen! One last thought: The local authorities will probably make a much greater contribution to the fulfilment of the Maastricht criteria than has been assumed so far. However, the formal conditions should also be facilitated when it comes to the allocation of tax budgets. In the Committee, I have pointed out that it is difficult for municipalities to carry out this breakdown in such a way that independent managing directors are appointed for the disbursed firms. – Mr Federal Minister, if we were to be met in this direction, the municipalities could also provide a greater amount. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e19452	The next speaker is Mr Lacner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e19474	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! The second amendment of the Federal Financial Act, which we will now give our approval, is essentially one of two key reasons: On the one hand, the budgetary consolidation rate will continue to be consistently pursued, on the other hand, the budget that we have already decided in the spring of 1996 will be adapted to the new circumstances on the necessary points. I am thinking in particular of the job situation, which unfortunately is not very pleasing, especially for those who are among the weakest in our society, namely the disabled. From the very beginning, however, it has been our goal to relieve at least those who feel the counterwind of neoliberal thinking in the economy, at least where they have direct influence in the staff structure, namely in the public service. For example, the changes to the establishment plan will create 50 new jobs that will benefit directly disabled people. I admit that this will not lead to a huge improvement in professional life, but it shows a political commitment that we are happy to give here today. In addition, further retranslations in the field of the Ministry of the Interior have become necessary in order to be able to join the Schengen Agreement as planned and not later. Ladies and gentlemen! If the budget is the policy cast into figures, then the supplementary budget means... [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: This is a rumor, Mr. Colleague!]] Please? [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: This is a rumor!]] What's a rumor? [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: That the budget is cast into numbers...!]] For you, perhaps, Mr. Hazelsteiner, not for me. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner.]] Hidden? All right, all right! [[Federal Minister Edlinger: Look out!]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Let me finish! That is also the reason, ladies and gentlemen, why we are going to give this supplementary budget to social democrats of this government. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e19561	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Steindl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e19582	Mr President. Federal Minister! I want the 2nd. In the case of the German Federal Finance Act Novelle, take the opportunity to address the current situation. There is no doubt that the given budget rate must be strictly observed. The budget implementation must be constantly examined, and this is also the task of the Minister for Finance. On the Wifo study addressed: Although individual pages can be ruled out, the study should be more comprehensive in view of the fact that it is very positive in terms of economic and monetary union. I would like to point out one point, Mr Minister, and ask you to address this in your speech. I assume you're going to speak, because the microphone is already in front of you. There are some uncertainties in the budget – some of which appeared yesterday on errors for 1997 and 1998 – so I ask you to address them. The municipalities take the budget very seriously and will meet their stated objective. However, I am skeptical of the fact that we will be able to give something in surplus for the Federation, but I think it is important that the League alone achieve this 2.7 percent. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e19621	Mr Müller is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e19642	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! A number of changes have become necessary in the implementation of the 1997 Federal Estimate, but will not increase the existing deficit. Developments such as the change in the jurisdiction of the place of residence by government transfers, as well as changes to the Hospital Law and the Financial Balance Act have made these measures necessary. Not to be forgotten is the distribution of the Federal Forests and the Federal Accounting Office as well as the absence of the recovery site of the Austrian alcohol monopoly and the establishment of the securities supervision. Now to some changes: In order to facilitate long-term unemployed people's entry into the labour market, this 1997 bill provides the labour market service with additional 500 million schilling for special integration aid. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this measure will reduce the number of long-term unemployed. This integration aid is partly financed from the emergency aid estimate item. The aim is to make the labour market easier to access especially for those in need and long-term unemployed by promoting those who employ long-term unemployed for at least 12 months. Ladies and gentlemen! The first step in reintegration into working life is the most difficult, so these 500 million schillings are certainly right in place. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We have also recently decided in Parliament to remove the Federal Forests and to convert them into a stock company, with land owners remaining 96 percent of the federal government. Ladies and gentlemen! The reason for the transformation was the improved mobility of the company and the adaptation to the international markets. The revenue and expenditure of the current holding can no longer be estimated in the government budget. The privatisation income of 700 million schilling and the annual fruit payments amounting to half of the profits will have a positive impact on the budget implementation in the future. With 1. In January 1997, the provisionally introduced and much-discussed health-care facilities cooperation funds were launched in 1978. In order for the federal government to be able to pay in the funds now set up by the countries the previous KRAZAF funds of 37 billion schilling plus the additional amounts negotiated, this change of law is necessary. High house! This 2. Federal Finance Act Novelle is necessary due to the laws recently passed in this House. In order to ensure that these laws can also be implemented financially, I will, of course, give my consent to this government proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e19694	Mr Edlinger, Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, spoke. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e19716	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been pointed out that this 2. Novelle on the BFG is defined by framework conditions which have occurred after the budget has been adopted. It is due to the change of the departments and through decisions and agreements with the financial compensatory partners, especially health care funds and various disbursements, which, in the end, have led to the same changes on the right and left of the budget and are therefore to be described as neutral. I would like to comment briefly on a few comments. Mr Dr. Haselsteiner has already said what he has said here in committee. I have promised you and all the other Members of the House that we will re-represent the main changes in the budget resulting from certain innovations. I also share the view that it serves the purpose of serious discussion when budgetary changes are manageable and better documentation is available for comparisons and sustainable conclusions. In this way, the discussion on the current budget implementation can be made easier. I would also like to say that the question of the exclusion of the communities will be a debate in the negotiations with the financial compensatory partners on Friday, particularly with regard to the creation of branches of accountancy. In fact, this is not only a help for the communities, but it also opens up a way to reduce the overall Austrian debt level and thus take a noticeable step towards 60 percent debt. This means that we want to help all the local authorities, of course also the local authorities. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] If Mr Schreiner, quoting from the Wifo study, has come to a very one-sided perspective, this is legitimate. In the Committee on Budgets, I have announced to you all that I would like to make available to you the whole study – I believe that this study has come to all Members in the meantime – because I believe that it is a very comprehensive work and that it is extremely interesting to present the advantages and disadvantages and certain developments that may occur. If you say that on page 37 quoted by you, the possibility that the hard-currency countries might be faced with an increase in prices – that is to say, the Wifo – I would like to oppose the fact that the euro as a single currency and monetary union, especially for hard-currency countries, for example, has cost us 0.5% of the acidised GDP alone in 1995, when the exchange rate fluctuations were to be offset by our second most important trading partner Italy. In particular, respect for freedom of expression: If you judge such a thing, you should not make it so easy to take anything out and draw a conclusion from it, because this puts yourself at risk of misinterpreting one, as I believe, of a valuable study. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I therefore hope and would urge you, Mr Schreiner, to read the whole study and I am also willing to discuss it with you afterwards. Finally, on the further budgetary development of the current year, I will assess comments that have appeared in the last few days and will also appear tomorrow, that, after two months, no precise and binding statements can be made about possible birth success for the entire year. Everyone who knows a little about budgetary policy knows that at a time when the January data are the main data, which is still taken into account, very many demarcation uncertainties and special factors in particular as regards revenue development do not allow a serious billing. The data so far available for February indicate that the second year of the double budget at that time will be completed successfully, as well as the year 1996 and will be completed within the framework of the agreed objective, so that a decline of 68 billion schilling will appear in 1997. This will not be easy, and it will certainly be necessary to take measures of extreme sparingness, but we have committed ourselves to that, and I will watch over it. I am sure that we will achieve the objectives of the 1997 budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e19784	Thank you, Minister of State. There is no more word message. The debate is closed. The rapporteur's conclusion has not been desired. We shall now proceed to the vote. I shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 590 of the Supplements, taking into account the amendments to the Committee's written report, 634 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. This draft is largely adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever agrees to the draft in third reading, I would ask for a sign of approval. – The draft was also adopted by a majority of the third reading. 18. Point Report of the Economic and Social Committee on the Government Template (554 of the Supplements): International Tropic Wood Convention of 1994 and Annexes (614 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e19839	We're coming to the 18th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are immediately entering the debate. I give the floor to Mrs Tichy-Schreder as the first speaker. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e19870	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Our agenda today has shown us how diverse the parliamentary issues we are dealing with here. It was a very rich day in content. It is all the more gratifying that the International Tropical Wood Convention, which we decide today, could also be decided unanimously in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, as we had strong debates on this subject years ago. I would like to say that this agreement is a framework agreement which aims to ensure that producer countries and import countries develop common directives on how sustainable management of the tropical forest will take place in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e19897	The next speaker is Mr Wallner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e19918	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! In accordance with the present Tropical Wood Agreement, three main objectives are: Firstly, cooperation in all sectors of the international tropical wood market is aimed at promoting sustainable use of tropical forests, and thirdly, there is a time limit for the introduction of a restriction on exports of products by the year 2000. We Austrians – most of them have experienced this – have introduced a labelling requirement in 1993. However, due to massive pressure on many of our businesses, it had to be abolished by countries from the Far East. We had believed that other European states would follow us in our decision, but that was not the case. The communities do a lot. There are 140 climate alliance communities, as we have heard many times today, and the inhabitants of these communities also pay their Obolus. I would also like to say: At the Rio de Janeiro conference in 1992, the Austrian Federal Government adopted its own national initiative: 200 million schilling on three years. It should be noted that these 200 million schillings have not yet been consumed. About 36 million Schillings are estimated for 1997. The Greens have made a request in the Committee to extend this initiative. We heard the Minister for Finance: The budgetary situation is very tense. This will therefore not be possible from this title. There is, however, the possibility that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, with regard to the funds available for development aid, might consider retranslating. I can tell you that the Socialist Group will be happy to give its approval to this tropical wood agreement.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e19967	The next and provisional last speaker is Mr Haigermoser. Rich six minutes? - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e19988	High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The contents of this tropical wood agreement have already been presented by the previous speakers. What else does one think of this tropical-wood agreement? [[Abg. Leikam: nothing!]] Perhaps the briefly discussed Blamage of Austria at the time, when it was thought to have to explain here in Parliament to the "rest" of the world what tropical wood matter was, finally, with the result that the Republic had to withdraw and make a embarrassing kneefall before some nations. The morality of this story: The truth, too, is mostly in the middle of things. Perhaps the Mahagoni writing table of Mr Hazelsteiner is still in this field of tropical wood. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: My desk is made of glass, Mr. Haigermoser!]] This is, ladies and gentlemen, but not so important. Rather, it is important to see the present agreement, as it then finally implements it and how it will affect those countries which are still operating in the rainforests, in particular today. The bird you mean to have to show me. Of course I'd like to keep this from you, Mrs. Schmidt! [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: This submission is a shame!]] Maybe you should watch a children's film, Mrs. Schmidt, who is really a checkout-knocker at the moment, a trick film. We certainly mean the same! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If it were to take a long time to support the investigation work on the part of Austria in these countries, then the small budget resources would at least be justified. This is, I believe, a credible Austrian forest policy as a whole and also a support for these countries. The Greens' request in the Committee was therefore rejected because it was not in terms of content and, above all, because the required budget resources are not to be increased in times like these. In spite of Mrs Schmidt's bird-show to me, we liberals will agree to this request.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e20072	There is no more word message. The debate is closed. The rapporteur's conclusion has not been desired. We shall now proceed to the vote. We shall vote on the request of the Committee to give approval to the conclusion of the State Treaty, which is contrary to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in 554 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign of approval. – This approval has been granted unanimously. We shall now proceed to the vote within the meaning of this kind. Paragraph 49 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act that this State Treaty must be made known by the fact that, together with its translation into German, it is required for public inspection in the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This decision has also been adopted unanimously. 19. Point Government template: Agreements on partnership and cooperation between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Armenia, of the other part, and Annexes, Protocol and Final Act (604 of the Supplements) 20. Point Government template: Agreements on partnership and cooperation establishing a partnership between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Uzbekistan, of the other part, and Annexes, Protocol and Final Act (605 of the Supplements) 21. Point Government template: Agreements on partnership and cooperation between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Azerbaijan, of the other part, and Annexes, Protocol and Final Act (606 of the Supplements) 22. Point Government template: Agreements on partnership and cooperation between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and Georgia, of the other part, and Annexes, Protocol and Final Act (607 of the Supplements) 23. Point Government template: United Nations Convention on the control of desertification in the countries seriously affected by drought and/or desertification, in particular Africa, and Declaration (565 of Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e20178	We now come to points 19 to 23 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. These proposals were not allocated to a committee. There is no mention of a word, and we are therefore immediately voting on each item of the negotiations. The first item of the vote is the approval of the State Treaty and its Annexes, Protocol and Final Act in 604 of the Supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This has been done in a multi-voice manner. We shall now proceed to the vote within the meaning of this kind. Paragraph 49 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act that the Agreement, together with its Annexes, Protocol and Final Act, must be made known in all authentic language versions by the fact that it is open to public consultation in the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This decision was also made by a majority vote. We now come to the approval of the State Treaty, the Annexes, the Protocol and the Final Act in 605 of the Supplements. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who give their agreement to do so with a corresponding sign. – This is also the case with a multi-vocal decision-making process. We shall now proceed to the vote in accordance with the nature. Paragraph 49 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act that the Agreement, together with its Annexes, Protocol and Final Act, must be made known in all authentic language versions by the fact that it is open to public consultation in the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This approval is also accepted by the majority. We now come to the approval of the State Treaty, the Annexes, the Protocol and the Final Act in 606 of the Supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This consent has also been given more than one vote. We shall now proceed to the vote in accordance with the nature. Paragraph 49 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act that the Agreement, together with its Annexes, Protocol and Final Act, must be made known in all authentic language versions by the fact that it is open to public consultation in the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Those who agree to this procedure may give a sign of approval. – In this case too, there is a multi-vocal assumption. We now come to the approval of the State Treaty, including Annexes, Protocol and Final Act in 607 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The decision-making process shall take place by a majority. I'm leaving it in the sense of the kind. Paragraph 49 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act, that the Agreement, together with its Annexes, Protocol and Final Act, should be made known in all authentic language versions, by the fact that it is open to public consultation in the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree with this procedure to give an appropriate sign. – This approval takes place in the majority of cases. Finally, we come to the approval of the present State Treaty, including the Annexes and Declaration in 565 of the Supplements, whose Article 31 is constitutional. With regard to the aforementioned constitutional provision, I first place in the sense of § 82 para. 2 C. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of the approval of the present State Treaty, including attachments and declaration, to have a sign of approval. – This is largely accepted, whereby I explicitly identify the two-thirds majority required by constitution. I shall now vote on the fact that the present State Treaty, together with its facilities and its declaration, is of a kind. Paragraph 50 2 Federal Constitutional Law must be fulfilled by passing laws. If you are in favour of this decision, please give a sign of approval. – This decision-making process is also carried out by a majority. Finally, we shall proceed to the vote within the meaning of this kind. Paragraph 49 2 Federal Constitutional Act that the Convention in Arabic, Chinese, French, Russian and Spanish is to be made known in the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I ask those who agree with this procedure to have a corresponding sign. This decision has been taken by a majority. The agenda is exhausted. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_1997-03-19-020-XX-NRSITZ-00066_d7e20322	I would also like to say that at today's sitting, the self-employed were brought in applications 411/A (E) to 413/A. Questions 2148/J to 2186/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for Thursday, 20. March 1997, 9 a.m. The agenda can be found in the written communication distributed in the hall. The session will begin at a Question Time. The sitting is closed.
