ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e3676	Ladies and gentlemen! I can welcome you very warmly and open the 80. Meeting of the National Council. The Official Protocols of 77. Meeting of 11 and 12. ==References====External links== The European Parliament also adopted a number of amendments to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, including those tabled by the European Parliament and the Council. In June 1997, the Parliament's Directorate remained in a state of suspense and without opposition, thus being deemed to be approved. Members Dr. Haider, Dr. Preisinger, Oellinger, Dr. Hazelsteiner and Dr. Kier have been reported to be prevented for today's meeting. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e3710	For today's meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the resolutions of the President of the Federal Government concerning the representation of members of the Federal Government has made the following statement: The Federal Chancellor Mag. Climate will become part of today's meeting by Mr Mag in the event of the simultaneous prevention of Mr. Wolfgang Schüssel's vice Chancellor Dr. Wolfgang Schüssel. Karl Schlögl, Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs Dr. Wolfgang Schüsselby Ms. State Secretary Benita Maria Ferrero-Waldner and Mr. Federal Minister for Science and Transport Dr. Caspar Deputy by Federal Minister Rudolf Edlinger. Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e3749	As the first point, we are negotiating the current hour. The following topic was proposed: "The appearance of the Austrian Federal Government abroad" First of all, Mr Magistrate has spoken. Stadler. He's got the floor. His speaking time is 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e3779	Mr President. High house! I would like to begin by saying that I am pleased that, in a solidarity action by the Austrian People's Party, practically the entire government team of the ÖVP, if not all of its Members, is present here to stand behind its party chairman, whatever that may be called in the Austrian People's Party. This can also be a dangerous threat to this party, ladies and gentlemen, the High House. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Extensive opposition to the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Today the ÖVP has truly reason enough... [[Unrest at the ÖVP.]] What are you so excited about? Unlike your party observer, our party observer can still travel abroad, where he is still being treated politely, ladies and gentlemen. That's the difference! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Unlike your party observer, we can still let our party leader travel abroad without having to generate ourselves to make fun of Austria there. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The appearance of the Austrian Federal Government abroad has been a problem for a long time. There was, for example, the strange announcement by the Vice-Cancellor and Foreign Minister that he wanted to injunctify Schengen with the Amsterdam Treaty. He said, according to one-sided agency reports – he later claimed that he had never given it that way – that he linked the ratification of the Amsterdam Treaty with the entry into force of the full accession of Austria to the Schengen Agreement. In the Committee on Foreign Affairs, however, he said the exact opposite of that and also made the claim that he had all of this in agreement with the Minister for the Interior. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! However, the Minister of the Interior – he is not yet here – has been told by the Agency that nothing has been agreed at all and that a junkimization of this question has not been agreed with the Federal Government at all and is not in question for him. Ladies and gentlemen! The Rügen that we have negotiated from Germany about the maturity of Austria regarding Schengen has not opposed this one to our foreign minister, because he is currently engaged in defending his breakfast talks, no, Austria was obliged to be defended by the Prime Minister of Luxembourg, Mr Juncker, because the Austrian Foreign Minister is paralysed by his own choice of words and in his capacity for action is reduced to zero. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! A similar to Tohuwabohu is available in the NATO question. The Minister of Foreign Affairs, supposedly in agreement with the whole of the Austrian Federal Government, traveled to the NATO headquarters in Brussels and said that he was waiting for Austria to be invited to the NATO membership to receive the relevant signals. The US President has now delivered the signals requested by the Foreign Minister in Brussels. In Austria it was said that this had not been agreed with the government partner at all, but was a solo number of Mr. Vice-Chancellor. This solo number has led to the next embarrassment, namely that Austria has become totally inestimable, incalculable in its foreign and security policy. The I-Tüpferl then delivered to the President of the National Council of Fischer when he declared in Russia in front of the State Duma that, for Austria, NATO membership was not an issue anyway, the Austrian Federal Government sees no reason to seriously consider NATO accession. The Minister of Foreign Affairs and Vice-Cancellor goes to Brussels and says: We want to join NATO, finally invite us! However, the President of the National Council in Moscow says exactly the opposite. This and that, for everyone, depending on what couleur the respective announcements come from, ladies and gentlemen. This has made Austrian foreign policy inestimable, especially as the Chancellor of the Federal Republic sees how a representative of this state, who has no foreign policy competence at all, is suddenly required to leave Mr. Vice-Chancellor in the rain and correct his statements. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! All this would be enough reason to have serious doubts about the sluggishness of Austrian foreign policy, but Mr Vice-Chancellor and Foreign Minister have managed to put the crown on the whole. I promised this morning to the President that I would not repeat the banalin jury, which Mr Vice-Chancellor gave the best abroad, in front of witnesses. I don't even depend on it. It's not about these verbal jury either. Mr Vice-Chancellor has, in fact, made up of the problem of comparing representatives of friends of states with incredibly pervasive remarks, with verbal jury in the field of zoology, with stable animals, to make a drama by being carried over to have said the untruth. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Dear colleagues from the Austrian People's Party! Their own colleagues have now said that Mr Vice-Chancellor was obliged to tell the entire Austrian public about the untruth, which is massively affecting his qualification as Foreign Minister, because a head of state has to have a racist remark, to provide the President of the Federal Bank with a comparison from zoology and even Swedish members of government to their intellectual abilities... [[Complaints with the liberals]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Maitz]] [[Abg. May. Posch: In racism you have to have an analysis...!]] Mr Posch! If you have reason to defend Mr. Vice-Chancellor, then stand up. There were some Carinthians who called for the resignation of this vice chancellor. [[Abg. May. Posch: We're talking about racism!]] Get up, you have the courage to do that! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Her colleagues from Carinthia immediately got rebuffed by the Federal Chancellor and Party Head of SPÖ. They were immediately ensnared to refrain from calling for the resignation of this foreign minister, who will indeed pose a massive problem for the next year's EU Presidency of this country. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Extensive opposition to the ÖVP.]] You've got to make a muzzle here today, which you're looking at. Her own party leader missed. Interesting was the Foreign Minister's line of defense. First of all, he didn't say anything, he picked up the audience to the Austrian radio, according to the motto: What is this to the public about what I say to some journalists at breakfast in Brussels! What right does the journalist have to ask for information about this! Then the Foreign Minister made a mistake and made the claim – and this is still in the Committee; Mr. Vice-Chancellor, you remember! – it does not belong to his vocabulary, which is subject to verbal jury. Foreign Minister! Federal Chancellor! I did not need half an hour to prove to the Foreign Minister during the Committee meeting that he called himself the way he called Swedish government members, in an interview he gave in Graz, and that was the "Small Newspaper" in her edition of the 13th century. ==References====External links== He then expressed solidarity on the part of Parliament and the political groups in the Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, that was touching. I too was almost touched. When I received the APA reports that an EIA grande after another left the Foreign Minister in the rain, I would have felt almost solidarity for him. But, Mr Foreign Minister, you have told us too often the untruth, and that is why on Friday we will make a motion for censure against you. What you've delivered now is just the famous drop that makes the barrel overflow. You've been filling this barrel for a long time. For example, you have filled this barrel in the EU election campaign when you participated in a massive campaign against the truth, against the legitimate interest of the Austrian people in truthful education. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Maitz.]] You have taken part in having a summit untruth when you claimed that with Japan everything was under the umbrella and that Semperit could deliver to Japan even after EU accession. That was – proveably – the untruth, as later proved to be. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Foreign Minister! You have filled the barrel further than you have told Parliament – in writing and evidenceable by two documents – the untruth in connection with the construction of the A4 East motorway, and the existence of one of your instructions in this context. You, Mr Foreign Minister, have shown Parliament that it was not true when it came to the sale of the Austrian transport agency. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! They no longer deserve solidarity. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Oh, yes! That's right!]] You have now brought the matter more than an overflow than you have done by your statements and by the disputing of these statements and by the fact that you have made us laugh at international level! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] High house! I do not want to go into the embarrassing canoeing of the Foreign Minister and Vice-President of the Republic to the President of the Federal Bank Titmeyer at all. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: The hatreds of Mr. Stadler are these!]] I just want to tell you what the Austrian is asking. I get countless emails in which the Austrian asks himself who actually paid it. The Foreign Minister does not know how to behave, then he flies to Germany, namely Frankfurt, and the Austrian taxpayer has to pay all this, ladies and gentlemen. Foreign Minister! The Austrians have no longer the slightest understanding for your verbal jury, for your derailments. It is also no longer to be understood that: You are now also including the EU ambassador of this Republic in your campaign in Brussels, which is thus embarrassed. Ladies and gentlemen! I come to the conclusion, Mr President. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: End of hate orgy!]] Within the coalition it is now one thing – one thing to one that the Austrian People's Party has initially denied the SPÖ in favour of the WestLB's bank-austria pre-purchasing right. It is precisely the match that is balanced, because everyone in Austria, on the other hand, is allowed to make the same claim with regard to the Vice-Cancellor completely unpunished.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e3979	On an opinion on "The appearance of the Austrian Federal Government abroad", the Federal Chancellor and the Foreign Minister reported themselves. I am the first to give the floor to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e4004	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I am apologising for the fact that I am going to say goodbye in about 20 minutes because the catastrophic situation due to the flood has led me to call the crisis staff so that the Austrian Federal Government, together with the countries and with the regional teams, can actively combat the flood which has already called for human life. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP as well as representatives of the Liberal Forum.]] I would like to thank at this point, ladies and gentlemen, the thousands of volunteers, firemen, the Red Cross, the representatives of the Gendarmerie and the Federal Army, who have been in operation for decades, including using their own lives, to help people to evacuate and, where possible, to secure life. [[Congratulations on SPÖ and ÖVP, as well as on representatives of the Freedom and Liberal Forum.]] Mr President. Since taking office as Federal Chancellor, I have continued the good tradition of Austria in the field of foreign policy and have put Austria's foreign policy integration on the broadest possible basis. For this reason I have already been able to report to the Council on integration issues, the Foreign Policy Council and also several times in the main committees of the National Council during the short time since I took office as Chancellor. In all these discussions, it became clear that Austrian foreign policy is committed to an active foreign policy, both at bilateral and multilateral level as well as at European Union level. Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me – Mr Vice-Chancellor will explain in detail to me the activities of his department and the Federal Government – to explain here what I have maintained in the few months since I took office on necessary foreign policy contacts. Then you will see how active Austria is in foreign policy. For example, we had work visits with the Netherlands, Switzerland, Germany, France, Hungary, Sweden, Poland, Greece, the Czech Republic, Italy and so on, always at the level of the Heads of Government, it was also the UN Secretary General in Austria to visit. The visits showed very concrete positive results for Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! If I allow the last days of the EU summit to happen, I can also say that the work of the Austrian employees in Brussels, the foreign office, the Federal Chancellery and the Ministries has been worthwhile for weeks and months. I do not intend to celebrate here a new Treaty of Europe euphoric, but I must say that it is a lot of what Austria has done and what has been successful in protecting the interests of Austria and in protecting Austrian citizens through the efficient foreign policy of the Austrian Federal Government. This too must be said clearly and clearly, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Because you, honourable Mr Magistrate. Stadler, who mentioned the topic of NATO: The Deputy Chancellor and I are still flying to Madrid together today, not to the NATO Summit, but to the first meeting of the new partnership between NATO countries and the member countries of the "Partnership for Peace". The "European Atlantic Partnership Council" is an excellent organisation that will be able to further improve cooperation on peacekeeping and peacekeeping in Europe. I am proud that in May this year the Austrian Federal Government decided to become a member of the European Atlantic Partnership Council on peacekeeping and peacekeeping in Europe. I am convinced that, as in the past, Austria will play a very active role in Europe through a strong solidarity with peacekeeping measures. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Let me conclude by saying, ladies and gentlemen, that I do not see any signs that Austria's ability to act is really limited. [[Abg. May. Stadler: I'm talking about Foreign Minister!]] Do you believe that I will do everything I can to continue to represent Austria with my colleagues abroad, to give Austria international hearings and to work hard and committed to our country in the sense of the Austrians?
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e4065	Thank you many times, Federal Chancellor. I can now give the floor to Mr Vice-Chancellor and Foreign Minister. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e4090	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, a few words. The occasion – and I misestimated this at the beginning – has nothing to do with abroad. The whole story was conceived by Austrians, played abroad, launched, transported and then, when a German magazine finally wrote the story, was reproduced in Austrian newspapers, on the grounds that it had not been written itself, but because it did abroad, it commanded the journalistic duty and ethics to write the matter now. [[Abg. May. Stadler: From ÖVP! From your party friends, that's from the ÖVP! Ask for information in Upper Austria!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: The journalists are to blame!]] That is to say, the origin lies here, and one has to put up with this origin and this case also in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Did you say it now or not?]] It seems to be a fundamental property of some to make Austria bad abroad and then complain that there is a threatening or already occurring image damage. I say to you personally, ladies and gentlemen, with deep conviction: The opposite is true! Austria – also its politicians – has become an internationally valued, sought-after interlocutor, because of its problem-solving capacity sometimes and has remained envied! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] So why this situation? – I think the reason for this is deeper, he goes deep into the relationship between politicians and journalists. Media have controlled power, politicians have also, in time, controlled. Media have freedom, even a constitutionally protected freedom, and that is a good thing. However, the necessary sensitivity to this is in dealing with it. I have deep respect for many journalists and media, who have also reported fair, decent, critical and objectively in recent days and last week. But there were others – and unfortunately that were not few – that crossed borders. What has affected me, and I speak out openly here, is also the extent of aggression in dealing with politicians and journalists. [[Abg. May. Stadler: In your own party! Your party board should think about it!]] I'm trying to be thoughtful and really practice it myself. I do not exclude the politicians – including myself – because I think we should all think about whether we need to find a new balance in some areas. There are also thoughtfuls here among us and also with the media. But what has happened in the last days has caused dams to burst. To suggest, for example, that I had an African foreign minister – meant to be the Foreign Minister of Uganda – with racist terms, is objective nonsense! I have advocated Christian democracy and time of my political life for integration and against racism! I'm not going to let anything like that and no one else! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: There can't even praise the SPÖ!]] In a medium it is said that I had called the Ugandan Foreign Minister insulting. – I have checked my dates, which I can prove in contrast to other things: I've never met or seen a Ugandan politician, and I've never been to Uganda. It was also assumed that I had insulted a French Commissioner. – I don’t know this lady, never had a conversation with her, never had any professional contact with her. [[Abg. Arbitrators: That's bad!]] It is a bit strange, too, that the simplest things that have existed in journalism before, namely: to research before and to give the person concerned the opportunity to find an area, are no longer respected. I therefore call for thoughtful thinking at all levels to be for a new sensitivity, for a new way of dealing with each other and for a new respect for each other. I mean, that would be good for democracy and Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The theme of this current hour is "The appearance of the Austrian Federal Government abroad". I'm talking about my activity: In the last 26 months, I have represented Austria far more than a hundred times abroad and, as I mean, well represented it. In the EU, as a small country, we have excellently positioned ourselves as an ambitious, active country – sometimes a little self-willed, with our own ideas and priorities, which is not always pleasant to the other Member States. But it is important and necessary that one be respected with one's own peculiarity. I have been the chief negotiator for the Intergovernmental Conference for 15 months and for the negotiations that the Federal Chancellor has just mentioned, and I am proud that we can show a good result in the joint work of the Austrian people! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Until a few months ago, on behalf of the Federal Government and together with all its representatives, I had successfully held the Presidency of the Central Initiative for one year. This initiative represents 16 Member States representing a population of around 200 million people. We have maintained that an Austrian will coordinate economic aid in the Balkans. During my presidency, an Austrian has become the Chief Representative of the OSCE in Albania. For the first time, we participate in two important peace efforts in our neighbourhood – not in our immediate but important neighborhood – in Bosnia-Herzegovina and Albania. And Austrians are doing excellent work there in the service of peace, in the service of the Austrian cause! I'm proud of that. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] We also strengthened the UN meeting in Vienna in hard negotiations. The UN Secretary-General, Kofi Annan, was in Vienna a few months ago. We have achieved that Vienna will be the world capital in the fight against the nuclear bomb and against the transfer of nuclear technology. The nuclear test stopps are monitored and controlled worldwide from Vienna. We have also ensured that the UN's fight against organized crime is fought in Vienna. We are currently setting up the Wassenaar Secretariat in Vienna, which is designed to prevent the transfer of high-tech technology, especially for the arms industry. And a few weeks ago, I reached a unanimous decision in the EU Council of Ministers that the first EU institution of this kind, an authority to combat racism and xenophobia, is located in Austria, in Vienna. Mr Stadler! I would like to say quite frankly to you: If you complain about the action of the Federal Government abroad, I am against you: There would have been no EU accession to Austria with you! [[Abg. May. Stadler: We would only have prepared him better than you! We would above all have informed the Austrian public better than you!]] In addition, you would have shown the neighbours in Central and Eastern Europe the cold shoulder. They are not interested in many activities we carry out internationally, multilaterally in the field of the UN. They voted against peace units and peace operations! – This should also be included in the evaluation of public appearance abroad. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to conclude by stressing: The first instance in democracy is not the editorial and not the press judge, the supreme authority is the voters, and in this sense I rely after 18 years of concrete, positive work for Austria on the constituency of the voters and hope that this counts more than the press level of the last week! [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals]]
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e4279	Before we go into the debate, I would like to make a few points. I have the text of the criticised speech of 9. Let the Duma bring in October and emphasize: The criticised sentence does not appear in this speech. It also does not deal with the Austrian NATO accession, but only with the question of the importance of pan-European security that attention should be paid to the security needs of all states, including Russia, and that the extension of a military pact does not take precedence over pan-European security, but rather is the primary objective of pan-European security. [[President Dr. Fischer refers to the document before him.]] – This is the original of this speech. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Some journalists have an disturbed relationship with the truth! That is proof that journalists do not always tell the truth!]] [[Lively contradiction with the liberals.]] I believe that the question of the correctness of an APA message, especially in the light of the presence of the original of the speech, must no longer be put to us. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: The "evil" journalists!]] We are now going into the debate. Mr Dr. Ofner, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, spoke. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e4348	Mr President! Values Members of the Federal Government! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The detachment of Mr Foreign Minister is just another link in a chain of embarrassments abroad and abroad. I only remember that, in a continuous sequence, smuggled people in their hiding places can pass the Austrian border unhindered, that they travel through all Austria and are only made stable at the border in Bavaria. It has only been announced in the last few days by Bavaria that one does not think of opening the border to Austria before it has been possible – in Austria – to close the border to the outside. – Ladies and gentlemen! A Blamage without any equal! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We have done something very special with the introduction of the motorway vignette, and abroad we have been extremely "honorized" in the negative sense. The vignette was not available in sufficient numbers, at a time when it was especially needed, namely on the holidays at the turn of the year, and on the border. And the vignettes that were there didn't pick right. And now it is so that the short-term vignettes are not adapted to the holiday needs of the people who come to Austria. – The result is hohn and ridicule beyond the border over what has come from Austria in this context, and serious economic damage which we will still feel in the tourism sector accordingly! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Austria, when it comes to the security interests of Europe on the one hand and Austria on the other, is desperately trying to get around, smuggle around, and disappear around every involvement. We seem to be on the point of view: The others will make sure that we too can live safely, but we want to save ourselves every contribution as long as it goes and as far as it goes. This has done a great deal of damage to our reputation abroad, in which we are called a "safety-political driver", ladies and gentlemen. [[New condolences with the liberals.]] And then the Foreign Minister – and especially the Foreign Minister should be under control if he opens his mouth, and especially the Foreign Minister should act accordingly – and uses expressions in the direction of Germany and in the direction of Sweden, which follow the vocabulary, without wishing to assume that he had used it, rather than in the Foreign Minister's department area than in that of the Foreign Minister. The Malheur has happened, but now he is fighting and claiming that everyone else is lying: the journalists, as always, the APA, by the way, as far as the statements in Moscow are concerned. That's where the APA obviously lied. - But one thing we don't come around: The Foreign Minister has... [[Abg. Kiss: Plates!]] My dear Paul! I'm almost sorry! I too have already found myself in such situations, I have already had to defend things that I did not really think were right. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] Now you're in this situation! I sincerely regret you and your colleagues from the ÖVP! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The Foreign Minister and, regrettably, with him, the Republic have lost its manoeuvrability on the international parquet. They have broken them in, and the bowl will no longer be able to recover from this blow – and of course it itself knows that. From such a malaise in the international sector you simply can't catch yourself! Unfortunately, this is not only the case of the Foreign Minister and not only the issue of the ÖVP, but the whole of Austria, and above all it is the case of the chancellor. The chancellor was visibly embarrassed. You could see how unpleasant the thing is to him. And it is also interesting that until a few minutes ago only ÖVP members were sitting on the government bank. The chancellor was there because nothing else left him, but he hastened to say: I have to go on again, the flood calls! – But he is yes, please, not a member of the volunteer fire brigade in Schwechat – at least I assume that – so that he has to run into the rubber boots and walk there! [[Live calls at ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Unrest in the hall.]] Of the SPÖ, only a "proud" State Secretary is there, who now holds the position, and you see clearly how embarrassing it is for the Social Democrats that they are in this matter...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e4426	Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to ask the speaker for the final sentence because of the speaking time that has expired. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e4441	We see how unpleasant it is for the Social Democrats to have to hold the bar here to the Foreign Minister of the ÖVP. That's the rest of the ditz bowl course. The ditz has been gone for a long time, and the bowl will soon be gone. – You can regret that or you can wish it.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e4468	The next speaker is Mr Peter Schieder.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e4499	Mr President. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! The great debate on Austrian foreign policy and all related issues will take place next Friday. Today we are dealing with the occasion of the current hour, a question that has been said many times in the last week, with the Social Democratic Group standing out consistently. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's right!]] She doesn't see herself as a judge, she doesn't want to be an excuse or a pretext. With regard to the specific question of this current hour – and I would like to say so equally clearly – there is no serious indication for us that Austria's external capacity for action is disabled or not at all available. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, it is also written, commented and spoken in other countries. I myself have been to the Parliamentary Assembly of the OSCE in Warsaw during the last few days and have, of course, been addressed to the alleged or actual statements of the Foreign Minister. But the colleagues of the other political groups who were with us will confirm that there were no disadvantages and not the most distant effects on the handling of our delegation and therefore on our work and our country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Demonstrative applause with the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Does this also apply to the Foreign Minister?]] - I'm about to talk. At the meeting of the main committee last week, the European Parliamentary of the Greens, Voggenhuber, said that the biggest problem would arise in the EU itself, in the Council, in the body in which the Foreign Ministers are sitting, and he is very concerned about the harmful effects on our country. You, Mr Stadler, have said something similar here at the speaker's desk today. Ladies and gentlemen! It is certainly positive if the opposition parties are concerned about our country. It would be more credible, however, if this were not politically selective and if the Greens had already been concerned about it, then the municipal councillor Pilz in Washington would have let go of his tyrates. And the liberals should have been in fact for a long time in the face of some sharks and also of the terrible spelling of an abbreviation by one of their politicians, who now sits somewhere behind right, no longer get out of the concern for our country! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Would you like to compare this with the statements of the Foreign Minister? What is this comparison?- Oh, my God!]] Of course, all of us have our country, its image, its possibilities and its opportunities to be at heart. That is why we will continue to observe all of this in detail, and we can also ask the Foreign Minister himself to ensure that in his function, even if he is concerned with his person, he closely observes effects abroad and that, when he sees a problem, he comes and says: Let's talk about how we solve it! Another open word to you, Mr Foreign Minister, but certainly not, because we have any fears regarding you yourself here: Make sure that, even without your knowledge or your will, the journalists concerned are not acted, for example, in an unbiteful, premature manner, against the journalists concerned, or that they are not cut or even disabled in their journalistic work, which is also carried out in the field of foreign policy and in the form of contacts with the foreign office. That, Minister, is particularly important to us!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e4618	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Khol. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e4640	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! People in this country wonder: Yes, the Members really have nothing more important to do than discuss such questions as they have been raised today. It is significant and paradigmical that Mr. Ofner, who has always moved in the matter of truth at "thin soups", today made the firemen despicable, who today, while sitting here in the dry, use their lives to protect the Austrians from the flood! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Are not the problems of reforming our pension systems more urgent? Is it not a more urgent problem to give the young people who have finished school a place to teach? Is it not a more urgent problem to deal with public service? Are you not just saying, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ that it is about Austria's appearance abroad that you are doing so out of concern for the Republic of Austria? [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! If you really care about Austria's appearance abroad, I think Mr. Haider should be sitting here today instead of sitting in Harvard on a campus in the sun and learning what the taxpayer's means to know, otherwise he wouldn't be a party observer. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] If the FPÖ is about the occurrence of Austria, then, I think, it should, instead of pointing its fingers at someone, also bear in mind that if you point your finger at a person, you should always be pointing three fingers at the one who is showing up there. And what did Haider say abroad? – Austria was the last remaining Stalinism, worse than Albania, he said. Or are you worried about the Republic? – Then confess to this Second Republic and do not always demand the third parties! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Weak! Very weak!]] If you are concerned about Austria, I would like to finally hear from you from this speaker's desk that you apologise for saying that the Austrian nation is a "born of miscarriage". [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What are you really talking about, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals? – You’re about a loathsome headhunting, an odious man-hunting, and it’s about your party interest. They want to weaken the government. They have no interest – neither in foreign policy nor in the Republic. You want to fish and benefit from this thin soup. Not with us! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[==References====External links== Aumayr.]] I would like to stress once again: If it were for the liberals around Austria, Partyobmann Haider would be in Parliament this week, and not on training in a campus of an American Nobel University, where he does not fulfil his duty as a MP for six weeks. [[Lively congratulations to the ÖVP and congratulations to representatives of the SPÖ.]] How do you explain to the taxpayer, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals that the Member refers Haider to the 200 000 s in the truest sense of the word 'unemployed income', that he is abroad, while this week we are discussing 30 laws, including extremely important questions, here? Modern search methods, the reduction of the Promille limit – these are very, very important questions, and the Haider is located on the Harvard campus next to young people in the sun and rejoices in his life! Ladies and gentlemen, I shall conclude. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] We are talking about Austria, we trust our vice chancellor and foreign minister and wish him good luck and success in his work.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e4749	The next speaker was Mrs Dr Schmidt, speaking at the same time.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e4770	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! High house! I do not know, Mr Khol, whether you are really taking the matter as seriously as you heard from your speech. One thing is really worrying: for some time, if at all, we have been experiencing two foreign policies. This has already begun, that is, it has not actually begun, it has reached a concentration point in April, when Foreign Minister Schüssel gave his speech to the NATO General Staff and there invited NATO to invite us, but to become a member. This has led to a storm in the water glass in the government fractions. We have had to deal with which line is now the line of government, and we have not only had to deal with this domestically, but that has also been registered by foreign countries – if the topic is already the appearance of government members abroad. Do you believe that the credibility of our country will strengthen the weight of our country? It was then modified by the Foreign Minister. The Minister of Defence has meant that in another appearance abroad, our federal army was already acting as if we were in NATO. – Resurrected domestic excitement and, as I believe, also registered from abroad. He's changed again. He meant that it was only about the standard that this federal army had, and he put himself in the series of the "returners" that we have had to observe for some time. There are always lines abroad, which are then tried to get back to the home, in order to at least take a step further. That would be right if you did not do so at the expense of credibility and thus the weight of Austria abroad. But that's exactly what happens. And then Amsterdam comes. – As far as the Treaty of Amsterdam is concerned, it is colported that the Foreign Minister, who has negotiated it, first said – in retrospect, not in front of the other interlocutors – that he would refuse the signature. Later, he changed. He said: do not refuse, but delay. The Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Credentials has made this point. On the question: Did you talk about the refusal of ratification in Parliament? – apart from the fact that this is not the case of a member of the government, but the members of the House – he first disputed to say afterwards that he is speaking briefly as a party observer and of course his group will see the ratification of this Treaty together with the entry into force of the Schengen implementing provisions. That is to say, he has very well meant that a delay would be appropriate to exert pressure here. He says one thing, he's modified, he means the other. Do you believe that this serves the credibility of Austria abroad? And now the verbal jury affair is coming in. In this regard, Mr Foreign Minister, I have to say that if you here think that you have to be given the opportunity to find a place: You've had them. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] Especially the Liberals were those who did not demand your resignation from the beginning – and not to this day – but who asked you to make a clarification. It is only, Mr Foreign Minister, that the clarification cannot seem that you simply and simply dispute and turn around the spear just as you have done, by simply lying to respected journalists, I say, because you say you have not needed such words. And now, Mr Foreign Minister, you have not taken the opportunity again, but you have done something else: You've been lying to the journalists between the lines again by saying that this thing was invented by Austria. "Concealed", that is, that you are subject to things that are bar of every reality. It's easy to say: I did not say that the others are the liars, which is not a clarification that this Parliament and the people expect. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] That is why I ask you to: If you do not want a judge to decide your credibility, then let the citizens decide on your credibility, but not, as you say, sometime in a election, but now in a public discussion with those journalists who affidavitably prove that these words have fallen, of which you claim not to have said them. And if You don't do that, then you have a public discussion with the Editorial Council. They have rejected this in the main committee. I am now asking you whether you are willing to do so, because if you are not active Restoring Your Confidence...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e4830	Please pay attention to the speaking time!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e4848	..., nothing remains but mistrust, both here in the House and abroad.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e4878	The next speaker was Mrs Petrovic. - Here you go. Same time of speech.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e4899	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In the context of these plenary sessions, the Greens will bring misunderstandings against the Deputy Chancellor and against the Minister of Defence, not primarily because of the causa of the Foreign Minister's verbal jury, but because it is a fact which has already been mentioned several times today that Austria now has a completely incalculable foreign policy. Some quotations have already been mentioned. I would remind you, Mr Vice-Kanzler, that in February of this year you declared a general laughter in a security-political symposia in Bonn, Austria has always interpreted its neutrality very dynamically. This has caused our distrust, and we will bring it here in this House as part of a request. Federal Minister! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! The whole debate around the Verbalinjuria that you have been accused of has reached a great deal of embarrassment. The President comes to Rules of Procedure and informs himself before the sitting of what would be said here. It is really difficult not to deviate from the practice of this House, because it must be possible to quote even reports of the media, of the "Salzburger Nachrichten", of the "profile", here, without getting a call for order. As I said, Chastisements about embarrassments! But today, Mr Vice-Chancellor, you have gone a step further. It is not just that you try to turn the spear around and lie to some journalists, no, you said very clearly today that this whole affair was conceived by Austrians and passed on to foreign countries. And Klubobmann Khol has also changed his division. He spoke in the media – I hope they are correctly quoted – recently about a kind of "stoll-post game" – that is, something will have already been said and then probably been built up – it sounds different today. Today, Mr. Khol spoke of an "irresistible headhunt." Ladies and gentlemen! What is that supposed to mean? In the clear text this means, here was said by the government bank and by the first series of one of the government parties, that there was apparently a plot of journalistic side, that some renowned journalists had gathered at the edge of the Amsterdam Summit in order to make the vice chancellor politically impossible and to move to resign. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! If that's the case, it's a very, very serious accusation. Such an accusation has not yet been made to my knowledge in connection with Austrian journalism. In all forms, Mr. Bundeskanzler: You have now submitted a concerted action here in this House to Mr Stoptacher, Mr Böhm, Mr Spudich and some others. If that is the case, I believe that this is also a case which the security authorities have to investigate, which the prosecutor has to investigate, because then this is a matter of urgency. Mr Vice-Chancellor, I think that such an accusation can and must not be raised in this House without the possibility of removing it. One word, however, also on the statements made by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany. Such completely unspeakable plateaus by the head of this federal government are hardly yet to be surpassed. His words about the powerful and committed foreign policy, of living solidarity, have not even clarified this foreign policy zigzag course in any form. Is the Federal Chancellor now the opinion of the President of the National Council regarding neutrality or the opinion of the Vice-President? There were pure plates he gave of himself. I do not want to vote in the holocaust about the brave men of the fire brigade, but it is actually flood in this country, domestic floods, it is sad and dirty floods, and I urge the Federal Government to finally end this mourning game!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e4948	The next speaker is Mr Scheibner. - Same time of speech.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e4969	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister of State and Minister of State! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The gentlemen come to the women!]] Mr Khol, Mr Klubobmann! I do not know if you have already adopted the Foreign Minister when you gave him your hand after your speech, but you are speaking, Mr Khol, of a loathsome headwashing. [[Calls:]] Head-hunting, yeah, even more angry. They're talking about a "distant headhunt." What is this headhunt, Mr. Klubobmann? [[Abg. Dr. Khol: How do you get "headwash"?]] I think you got the headwear from your Foreign Minister, because you were actually the one, Mr Klubobmann Khol, who drove him into the whole affair. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They were the one who, like shot out of the gun, made a reflective broadcast after these statements were made known: They said that's all wrong, that's all not true, all untruth and so on. So it was you who brought the Foreign Minister to this Bredouille. You could talk about the consequences of these statements. Of course, this would not have been pleasant, but perhaps the waves would have calmed down again. The problem we have, and here you are responsible, Mr Klubobmann Khol, is that there is room for the Foreign Minister of the Republic of Austria not only to this Parliament, I do not want to say, but not only to this Parliament has said the untruth, but also to the entire Austrian population. Mr. Klubobmann Khol! It is your merit that you have brought your Foreign Minister into these difficulties! You can put that on your flags! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This is not about a headhunt, but it is rather a question of the internal situation of the ÖVP. And the responsibility of the ÖVP towards its Foreign Minister was also interesting. First, Klubobmann Khol says, that's all wrong. Then – now you already notice a little the bad conscience – the Minister of Defense comes up and only stirs up that these statements – that is, they seem to be voting – are "passed" in an absolutely unofficial framework and should therefore not be co-ported. Well, it's already happened, but you're complaining about it... [[Interference of the Federal Minister Dr. Fassleven.]] This is an APA issue, not contradicted, Minister of Defence! And the head of state Klasnic even speaks of a confession possibility. You can say the untruth, you can confess it afterwards. – So nice reactions from the ranks of the Austrian People's Party. I don't know, Mr. Khol, where the head-hunting is. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] And if you, Mr. Klubobmann Khol, speak to Partyobmann Haider, where he is, and what with his income he gets here: Mr. Klubobmann Khol! I don't know what you did early this morning during breakfast. Maybe you put up your speech. If you had read the paper – but perhaps you now have a problem with the journalists – you would have read the paper, then you knew quite well that Klubobmann Haider holds a course on the creation of budgets – you laughed, Mr. Klubobmann Khol, but it would be very good for you if you also took such a course. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: I read them last night!]] [[Vivid cheerfulness at the ÖVP]] Then you would learn that budgets are not rehabilitated by taking the people into the bag. Mr Klubobmann Khol, such a course would be very good for you. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Secondly, if you had read the paper, you would also have known that Mr Klubobmann Haider is giving his income to an eight-year-old orphan in these six weeks. Mr Klubobmann Khol, I do not know whether you are acting in such a way that you don't earn all these incomes that you really don't deserve social purposes. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Foreign Minister! Their defence was also very interesting – they did not respond to the occasion with a word. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Holiness!]] They said the story was invented domestically, brought abroad, and Austria is being mistreated abroad and then accused of the bad image. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The soup is too thin!]] Foreign Minister! First – I say that again –: If you really tell the journalists the lie, you also have to complain about it, because it is really a serious accusation when you say that the independent journalists are connected there and make a campaign against the good of Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The soup is too thin!]] – In this respect, we are waiting for your reaction. Secondly, Foreign Minister! I would like you to believe that you are really upset, really affected in connection with this campaign, but where was your reaction, when, because of not the journalists, but the politicians of thoughtful campaigns against political opponents here in the country – played across abroad – massively damaged the welfare and reputation of Austria? When other representatives of this country, particularly free representatives, were affected, you have not heard anything from them, Mr Foreign Minister. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It would also be your responsibility to intervene on the messages that this is being abandoned. – The pit you threw out now falls back on you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e5125	Please pay attention to the speaking time!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e5141	Mr President, my conclusion: Foreign Minister! You said the first instance is the voters. I give you absolutely right, and in this sense you may also appreciate the opinion polls your party is about 20 percent.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e5171	The next speaker is Mrs Rauch-Kallat. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e5192	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Dear Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Petrovic, you have previously quoted Mr Khol, his statements on "head-hunting" and "distorting the facts". That is why I can quote someone who is inconceivable to you because he is not a politician, not a defender, but a doy of Austrian journalism, namely Hans Winkler – a quote from today's "Small Newspaper": After a very critical assessment of the development of the last days, he also concluded that the Vice-Chancellor's attitude was: "But all of this does not justify what has happened in the last few days. The way in which bowls are presented on envelopes of supposedly serious magazines, in cartoons and articles, has nothing to do with the merciless treatment of politics and politicians to which journalists are obliged." [[Abg. Aumayr: Now they are wretched!]] "It is" – I still quote – "human hunting, repugnance and vendetta – and they are not part of the press's duties." – End of the quote. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Meschberger: Winery!]] – Hans Winkler to read in today’s edition of the "Small Newspaper". [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Wolfgang Schüssel is – even if They shout so loud here – an internationally recognized politician who has already been an important co-negotiator in the negotiations on accession to the European Union. As Foreign Minister, he has acquired international recognition over the last two years, which is reflected not only in the appreciation of his colleagues, prominent colleagues, but also in the international press. [[Prolonged calls to the liberals.]] – Let me – I would like to do so – bring some quotes from the international press: The bowl has taken a necessary path. – "Frankfurter Allgemeine". Cushion determines the style and indicates the tone. - "Corriere della Sera", 1995. [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Wolfgang Schüssel as a key to success. Mr President, please give me a hearing.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e5271	Ladies and gentlemen! I call Mrs Rauch-Kallat.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e5287	Wolfgang Schüssel as a key to success. - "Corriere della Sera". Remarkable turnaround. - Financial Times. A lot of praise for the neighbor. - "Stuttgarter Zeitung". The little ones are defending themselves. - "Rheinian Mercury". Ladies and gentlemen! Since it is obviously so important to you, I would also like to speak to you – rather weary, but necessarily – on those who actually harm the reputation of Austria abroad: It's the liberals and the terrible image of their waitress Jörg Haider. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Aumayr: It's clear!]] – Ladies and gentlemen! You didn't want it any other way. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Finally, it was the shark who was at breakfast!]] Who is referring to the SS's comradeship meetings under great international mediaecho and reaffirms them in their racist and anti-human attitude? [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Now we're back at the manhunt, at the headhunt!]] [[Further calls.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] – Jörg Haider, who, as an elected and paid member of the Austrian Parliament, obviously prefers to spend four strike weeks in America now. Ladies and gentlemen! Who brings forth such unspoiled tastelessness – by the way, quite rightly – international protest storms? - Jörg Haider. Who has to take responsibility for Austria's being a hort of eternal Nazis abroad? - Jörg Haider, too. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] I can still bring you some reports and quotations. The European: Haider is a postfascist, Hitler’s grandson. – "Times": Haider’s party is a right swing extremist group. [[Further calls to the liberals.]] I know, ladies and gentlemen, that you do not like to hear this, but your screams will not conceal that it is Jörg Haider, who really hurts Austria abroad. [[Congratulation of the Abg. May. Posch.]] And that you, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens and the Liberals, together with some Austrian media, play the goal of Jörg Haider, is unfortunate.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e5397	Next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Gredler. There are two words left, and we will bring this debate to an end. Please, Mrs Gredler.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e5421	Thank you very much, Mr President. – Dear members of the Federal Government! High house! Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Fischer for his statement. Sometimes one should be ashamed of having to hold debates here at this level. Mr. Vice-Chancellor Kussel! There is really a problem, and the problem has begun with the fact that there was no excuse, but one – I would call it – "silence of men". They're saying "under men." Would you have the kindness, 52% of the population of Austria, namely women, to explain what this debate was all about? I do not know, I cannot understand, I apologise for my gender in this context, but I would like to know what you have said to this representative, who plays an important role in the Federal Republic of Germany. Further: It's also strange that your country's main wife, Klasnic, says: A Christian also may lie, for God is gracious, and he can confess. – Were you confessing? - I don't know. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] It's a lady your party belongs to. I do not know if you are brought such quotations if you are asked indirectly in this way to go to confession, express distrust or trust. I think it's a mistrust. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] I would also like to take responsibility to Mr Bundeskanzler Klima. He is responsible for the fact that the Federal Government remains operational, that the Federal Government provides a clear line so to speak as a government line. I really can't see much of what the clarity is all about lately. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! There are also your statements of Mons of 24. In April 1997, you asked NATO to ask us to join NATO. I mean, Either you say it directly – or you leave it. We need not let Mr Clinton tell us where we are best in our defence policy, but if, then, it should be a conversation that will be open in Austria; not only from next year, but from now on. I call on you to submit this option report as soon as possible, to open the discussion with the population now and not to wait until the train has long gone away and we are actually very different in our defence structure. I also say this in the light of the fact that the Minister of Defence in Prague has declared that the German army has been managed and equipped with NATO for years. I have nothing against the fact that good equipment is being sought for the German army, but I wonder why coordination is needed if we really want to remain neutral and do not want to deal with NATO. So you have to decide, and if you want to be compatible with a system, then you have to start the dialogue – after that you can introduce compatibility. It cannot, however, be assumed that a weapon system is so to speak, as an orientation, and then it is said that we probably do not need it anyway, because we remain neutral. – What is this absurdity? [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Now on Schengen: You have actually threatened a veto by saying... – I am allowed to interfere with the internal coordination problems that are now happening in front of the camera and tell you the following: [[Abg. Dr. Khol talks to Vice Chancellor Dr. Schüssel.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: He wants to be Obmann! Khol wants to be Obmann for a time!]] Mr Vice-Chancellor, if I take your veto threat seriously, I can no longer criticise the policy under Margaret Thatcher, which is what Europe's policy is about to do, because we are on the best way to articulate and implement a policy like this. What do you think about how seriously we are being taken if we threaten, on every occasion, to delay ratification, with refusal of signature – no matter what expressions have happened – which is the same as a threat? – Let’s improve this system! Where there are still gaps, they belong, and that would solve the whole problem. I would have a question in connection with Madrid: Is there actually an accredited position of the Federal Chancellor and the Deputy Chancellor, so that there are no more difficulties in this respect and no more excuses are necessary, or will it be so that the Federal Chancellor has to clarify that there is a single position to be represented by the government? Mr President, I come to the last sentence, but that really bothers me. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Mr. Vice-Chancellor! You have said that as a Christian Democrat you are therefore for the integration of foreigners. As a Christian and Democrat, can you explain to me why you want to prevent the family move for the families of foreign citizens? I do not think that this is a healthy attitude for a Christian Democrat when you are likely to violate your Christian faith if you want to suggest a bar.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e5492	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Kammerlander. - Please. "Similar speaking time" I almost no longer trust to say.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e5513	I am very pleased to accept the invitation to more extensive use of the speaking time, Mr President. Foreign Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Government! Ladies and gentlemen. We have heard a lot of interesting things about foreign policy today, but it has actually limited itself to the fact that there are work talks. The "active" foreign policy Austria is that we are told what we already know or can also read in the reports: There's a lot of work talks. But there are almost no initiatives in this foreign policy – and this is not only true of us, but also of the media and you – and there they are, where they exist, they are so contradictory that they cast a shameful, a terrible picture on Austria. This is also the reason why we are constantly discussing this here. Let us stay on the subject of Intergovernmental Conference. In the wake of the Intergovernmental Conference, some media have enjoyed the fact that the promises made by our government representatives here in the country, for example for full employment, for the use of environmental clauses, were not implemented by them at all. They sat there quietly and waited for the others to fight this for us. But these are just a few examples for many. Almost one could be tempted to say: We're used to that! We are used to the fact that there are some promises here that will not be held abroad. But one thing we have not been used to – and that is the real point – is that something that has been said abroad in whatever words has not been explained here in Austria, here in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, here in the main committee. For example, it has not been clarified whether there are disagreements with Sweden, the Swedish government, whether there are disagreements with the time of time. If I were to give real faith to the statements of the Foreign Minister, that would mean that journalists have thought of it. And really believe that journalists think of something so horrendous and then, by chance, come to the name of Zeitmeyer. They didn't think of anything else, did they? – All this is so abstract, and it is so clear what the truth is that I think this House still has to decide this question this week, and it can only be decided with a vote of confidence or distrust. But if you still believe the statements made by the Minister today, namely that this has been conceived and transported abroad by Austrians, and that is really true, then the Minister should complain. But no one still believes you that it really was. We've known what it was like for a long time. The result of the debate after these days, however, seems to be that it will be a cavalier crime in Austria, especially for politicians. If I look at the press today, which reports large and broad, who has already lied to all in this world, I can only interpret your behavior in such a way that you mean: Oh, my God, it's one more or less! – That seems Your understanding of being a Christian democratic attitude. Leave a little more. You said on this occasion: It is a difference – but I do not want to do that now – whether election promises are being broken – that is also happening in the media today, in the press as well – or whether a minister here in a committee not only explains that he did not say this, but at the same time also accuses a number of people of lies – not any people, but people who primarily do public work. Finally, I would like to say something to me in the last few days. There has been another NATO debate over the last few days, caused by a statement by American President Clinton and a response from climate. Interestingly, he says that we should have a debate without a grievance. I am interested in the fact that those who have actually informed President Clinton have informed falsely, because his literal quote is that there is an interest from Austria in joining NATO. Who has this interest, and who informed Clinton about this interest? What member of the government was that, and how is it still compatible with our position in foreign and neutrality policy? – These are serious issues concerning the credibility of foreign policy. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] I'm just asking: What is the Austrian Federal Government's position today and tomorrow at this summit of the countries...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e5565	I would ask for the final sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e5580	... represented at this summit of the countries of the "Partnership for Peace"? – That we are interested in going to NATO, that we are having a discussion without scams, or that we are still a neutral country? Austrian foreign policy – that is my conclusion – has not least been discredited by your behaviour, Mr Foreign Minister, which is no longer to be maintained.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e5613	I declare the current hour to end. There are no more words available either. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e5637	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the written communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e5833	I should also like to announce to the House that the ninth report of the Incompatibility Committee has been distributed to the members of the National Council. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e5854	I would like to sum up the debate on points 2 to 6, 7 to 11 and 12 to 14 of the agenda. On the other hand, are objections raised? - That's not the case. That is why we shall proceed in this way. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e5879	Consensus was reached at the Presidential Conference on the following procedure: A day-block speaking time of 8 "Vienna hours" has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ 120, ÖVP 112, Free 104, Liberal Forum and Greens each 72 minutes. Is there any objections to this proposal? - That's not the case. That is why the House approved this proposal. 1. Point Declarations by the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs and the Federal Minister for Finance on the economic situation
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e5912	We'll get to the 1st. Subject: Declaration by the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs and subsequent statement by the Federal Minister for Finance on the economic situation. In addition, a debate on these two declarations will take place in accordance with five Members' requests. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e5939	Mr President. High house! Not only the forecasts of international economic institutions and international organisations, but increasingly also the personal experiences of Austrian entrepreneurs and travel politicians – I am also one – show that in the international field there is an unbelievable situation. It has actually become the main topic of discussion at all international conferences, why there is so much disparate growth zones in the world. On the one hand, we have relatively weak growth in OECD countries and especially in the EU and the rest of the EFTA member countries, and on the other hand we have a relatively strong growth in Asia of an average of over 8 percent per year, in Latin America of almost 5 per cent, in North America, in NAFTA countries of about 3 per cent. And there is an international discussion that focuses on the question: What happened in the way of globalisation? Is there a process under way here, which has caused a self-sustaining economy in Asia and, in part, Latin America with import growth, in particular, the established markets in Europe, the USA and Japan, in which Europe cannot participate? In recent weeks, analyses of American national economists in particular have moved the media. In my speech, I quote an analysis by the Nobel Prize winner Gary S. Becker from Chicago University, who, like many others, indirectly accuses the Europeans of failing to meet the requirements and conditions of modern economic policy in several areas. He says we would intervene too much, particularly in the labour market, and not talk about tax reductions, reductions in subsidies, the elimination of regulations and employment controls and the easier authorisation of companies. I believe that, in the course of today's debate on a wide range of issues, we can show that we are making considerable efforts in Austria to catch up here. And I say the following: We have growth worldwide, and as politicians like all those who make regulations, we have to ask whether we are doing enough to represent a stronger participation in this global growth through the decommissioning of our own capacities and opportunities. Of course, I have said this several times in this House, we should consider whether we should not stop using statistics for domestic use and statistics for the international reputation. We have a homemade inflation rate as statistics, and we have a homemade unemployment rate as statistics. – You see from my distributed speech documents how much the differences are. To the extent that we have established ourselves more daily as a member of the European Union and also do not want to mislead ourselves politically in the argumentation, we should finally turn – that would be my appeal – to the European Council at both Councils. It goes so far that, in part, advertising for Austria also comes from banking institutions, from renowned houses, to this different comparison, and we are actually being asked more and more internationally, where the truth lies. In addition: We do not need to be shy of international discussions. All the countries that are held in festivity as a model example have higher unemployment rates and higher inflation rates than Austria and are more likely to ask us what to do. For example, I can tell you that an American chief economist told me that if our standardised EU data were available to Mr Greenspan, there would probably be a price break in Wall Street and there would also have to be an increase in interest rates, because we have such a low unemployment rate internationally and also lower inflation than the other EU countries. I'd like to admit: This does not help the individual unemployed. Only: In the international analysis, we should really learn to speak in a language. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] High house! If one has been accompanying economic policy for a very long time and if one has been following development for decades on the concerns of the individual companies, interest groups and political parties, then one must say that the conditions in Austria have experienced a dramatic change over periods. If, in Austria's economic policy, inflation rates of an average of 4 percent in the 1960s, of more than 5, yes, almost 6 percent in the 1970s and of at least 2 percent in most of the 1980s, and are now expected to have an inflation path of 2 to less than 2 percent for the coming years, this is especially true of entrepreneurs in the various sectors of the economy, especially in the exposed sector, because they know, in the neighbouring countries, that there is 10 to 15 percent inflation and in the main target markets, often up to 70 percent inflation in developing countries, what it means to work with stable prices. In the international tax discussion, too, Austria lives by the fact that this country has succeeded in implementing business tax reforms relatively early compared to large neighbours, which have made us attractive as a location. They see from the international comparison that in Europe, if we look away from Great Britain and some northern countries, we need no comparison and that corporate taxation in the establishment policy is an advantage to us. On the third point, ladies and gentlemen: When we had a high interest rate policy in the 1970s, it was the main problem of many companies that they could not generate interest in the economic process. At that time, as an innovative response, economic policy introduced a very wide range of interest subsidies. At that time we had loans to pay at least 8.5 percent. They then rose to 10 percent, while today they are between 4.75 and about 6 percent. We know what it means today to be active in companies on the financial market, and we know what opportunities there are, in particular, for larger enterprises in the area of finance policy. It is therefore also necessary to say in this regard: It must remain that we can drive at low interest rates. Because I remember: 1 percent interest rate increase hits Austria's economy with about 15 billion schilling, but 1 percent wage increase only with about 10 billion schilling. In other words, we have to stick to a low interest rate policy. Next item, ladies and gentlemen: For the first time in 80 years, Austria's entrepreneurship has more or less free market access to all neighbouring markets, and it is one of the aims of international economic policy to further promote this possibility. This means, in fact, that we can continue to expect exports to be the engine of our growth and must therefore continue to pay great attention to this area of economic policy in the future. Ladies and gentlemen! I refer to the last figures for direct investment. We had an overwhelmingly positive investment balance from abroad in 1996 compared to most of our neighbours. The fact that we had over 40 billion Schilling foreign investment in Austria is talking about location policy, and I can only invite any critic to enter into a dialogue with the companies that have carried out this investment in order to find out an assessment of the location of Austria. I can tell you from my own house because last year we took over the ABA, the Austrian Business Agency – formerly ICD – that we meet for unusual interest in investment in Austria, which however has changed significantly. Austria is no longer a traditional country for large investments, including the amount of potential available, but we will become a typical country for rather small and medium-sized investors. Our ABA experiences show that last year we have implemented 24 projects that cover an investment volume of 350 million Schilling and have brought about 1 100 jobs to Austria. In 1997, we have so far drawn 27 companies, which have brought 700 new jobs and an investment volume of about 1 billion Schilling. I can only tell you the following: Every time I travel abroad, there are now special seminars for foreign investors, and we are still very interested. Ladies and gentlemen! It would not be enough to have it used in this more positive international comparison. It must be borne in mind that we still have horizons of problems in Austria, which must be addressed here. I would first like to turn to the labour market. It is obvious, of course, that every single one of us and also in the ministries, that with the change in the employment policy of the public hands in Austria, very many young people are being forced – I remember, in part, up to 70 percent of the graduates have gone to public service – to take care of themselves nationally and internationally elsewhere for work. The successful comparison of Austrian labour market policies over the next few years will also focus on the success of closing the traditional entrepreneurship gap and creating more jobs in new businesses, especially in the area of services. One must, of course, be addressed openly, High House: It is not enough if we are trying to create the best conditions for Austrian companies, if these are not also used in the sense of social obligations, as it is so nice, for example to have a higher employment effect. If I may allow a margin remark: It can be argued that the dynamics of the Austrian economy over the last decades has suffered that too much of the youthful elite has been absorbed by the public service, where it has not automatically become the source of dynamics from the hierarchy. Internationally, it is said that young graduates of schools and universities are crucial to the dynamics of an economy. I believe that it is therefore a historic opportunity if we first get the elite from universities to companies and no longer in public service. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] High house! In view of many thick competitions resulting from international surveys on the location of Austria in recent weeks, we have made a lightning survey with the large companies investing in Austria. And amazingly, we have hardly heard any complaints except for two exceptions. First exception: severe criticism of energy costs in Austria. Second exception: severe criticism of telecommunications costs in Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] . I will come later, honourable Member. It will now be necessary – in part to me, in part to others – in the field of energy organisation through the reorganisation of the right of organization in Austria, which will mature in the next few days, to ensure that, at least in the field of energy-intensive industrial plants – I am referring to, starting at 40 gigawatt hours – we can implement a liberalisation model that contributes decisively to competitiveness. On the other hand, it will be necessary for us to have a strong cost-reduction trend in the field of telecommunications instead of price boosting trends and also to improve the functioning of the systems. I don't want to tell you what I heard about the state of the Austrian GSM system 14 days ago at a U.S. stay of top experts. Let me now come to research and development. Ladies and gentlemen! You will remember that on several occasions I have said that my wish concert on research policy is made up of three elements: firstly, to bring the institutions currently active under one roof to a better dialogue and to better coordinate, second, essential parts of the ERP fund, to refocus ERP funds towards industrial research and thirdly to release some billions for the field of industrial research. I believe that the current discussion with the project team and the models provided for in this regard is designed to make creative progress in this direction. However, I would like to add that we should stop having a fear discussion in this context. It is not in any way a question of taking away the funds from the FFF. We do not want to grant him any more loans because he is not supposed to play the bank, but he should continue to be active at least to date and, by means of a corresponding basic capital facility of the new research roof, do not have to continue to work with debt advances. One point I would like to mention here in the House because it has already been raised today: I have repeatedly said that great investors are welcome, especially if they are researching. In the case of Conti-Semperit, it was one of the main disadvantages of this site that was abandoned from research. I can inform the House today that a very important research project of the Conti Group is going back to Traiskirchen. This is primarily a forward-looking module project, which would mean that we can again be very hopeful of the often desperate future of the truck tyre location Traiskirchen, even if the project does not go to the billions. But it's a start project that could revolutionize all tire technology. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Novotny.]] Mr President. High house! In my house these days, negotiations with the Ministry of the Environment and the E-Economie will be concluded on a support model for alternative energy generation. I suppose we'll be done this week. In this context, I would like to announce that we have to become highly active, especially in the field of biomass, for two reasons: With regard to international energy scenarios, biomass is probably the most promising segment of Austrian energy production policy. We have found in our discussions that it is not enough to use biomass mainly for the purposes of heat generation, but it will be – and here there is a high research need – an important resource for electricity generation, in particular. I therefore believe that, as one of the first priority projects, we need to provide an extended dynamic model for the public and, above all, for the economy, as part of this new research roof, as part of this KIR. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Now to foreign trade. Anyone who unbiasedly analyzes the reports of the Austrian economic research institutes also sees where the real problem of our export industry lies. Most of all Austrian exports – around two thirds – go to the area of the European Union where there is relatively weak growth, especially in the area of consumer demand. As a result of this integration, we also have the largest trade deficit with the European Union, namely around 112 billion schilling, while we do have a surplus with the rest of the world, but the relatively low share of total exports in growth dynamics cannot play a decisive role. Therefore, our strategy can only consist of a twofold approach. Firstly, it is important to strengthen the internal market in order to reduce this internal market deficit. This is done by a single market offensive. There is a great deal of effort, but I admit that Europe is a very intensively competitive area. And especially in the field of the food industry, where we have the major deficits, the Austrian supply structure does not always correspond to what is being asked in the EU of the quantity as of quality. Secondly, We will have to see that we are even more involved in the growth area of Eastern Central Europe. Ladies and gentlemen! The OECD admires the fact that since the opening of the East, we have improved our external trade share with the countries from Slovenia to South Africa from about 9 to 14 percent. I assume that even 20 percent will be reached if growth in these countries – as forecast – will continue to be between 4 and 8 percent in real terms over the next few years. Nevertheless, we must, in particular, implement creative promotion and innovation measures for markets outside this area. I am very pleased that, in the meantime, the control bank has facilitated access to the CIS market, that the conditions for Russia have been significantly improved and some of the CIS countries have been opened up. The recent FGG Supervisory Board decision ensured that two Asian funds will be opened up to around 500 million Schillings, which will finally establish us adequately in this most growing market in the world, and I very much hope that it will work together with the Ministry of Finance to reach a similar facility for Latin America. Ladies and gentlemen! There are several approaches to achieving easier market access for Austrian companies in many foreign markets: First: We must serve the strongest economic block, the EU, in international economic negotiations in order to hinder market barriers. I note on each of my visits that Austria's examples of trade barriers, which have been fed by the Chamber of Commerce, by the AWO, into the EU's computer network, are each referred to as first examples by the EU ambassadors. We must continue with this, and the EU must actively represent our concerns towards the individual countries in its foreign policy. We will also have to argue on the issue of the joint Presidency – I have already talked with the English trade minister Clark about a common strategy for opening up the market in connection with our cooperation in the troika of the EU Presidency. Secondly, The implementation of some WTO rules is progressing too slowly, and before we talk about the new Millennium Round, we should see if the old regulations are enforced. I am particularly concerned about the question of the enforcement of the so-called TRIMs and TRIPs, especially copyright issues. An economic block such as the EU, which can only exist in the long term through strong innovation on the world market and thus secure prosperity, must place great emphasis on such protection mechanisms. Ladies and gentlemen! If you look more closely at the development of the Austrian unemployment rate, you can see that especially those people who have only completed and never learned a course of training, i.e. primary or secondary school. We are envied internationally by our apprenticeship model. Let me say: From an action such as the Economic and Social Committee, we see that this new bundle of funding measures, the new conditions in the Vocational Training Act, the Youth Employment Act and the ASVG sector has led to commitments from the economy for 3 500 additional apprenticeships. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to stress this, and I hope that this trend will continue. I quote some large American companies that have recently announced in a long-term analysis that the biggest obstacle to development in the USA is the dramatic lack of fully trained skilled workers; therefore, the study delegations are increasing to Austria. Also within NAFTA, comparisons show that the skill level of Mexican skilled workers is higher than that in the USA, which triggers a discussion in America. Therefore, I would ask that we give increased attention to the efforts of the WIFIs, such as the vocational promotion institutions, in the near future. We should not only sell ourselves as an example abroad, but rather, by intensifying adult education, avoid the fear and chance of unemployment or at least significantly reduce it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We should also talk about this openly: With BMW, General Motors and others you can see a wealth of working time models today with pride. The "great" do not complain or rarely complain that they do not find enough flexibility in Austria, but rather the problem is that many smaller and medium-sized enterprises simply do not trust themselves or do nothing under the eye of watchful controls. Therefore, my request to the social partners would also be to consider how to eliminate this clear discrepancy between great flexibility in the "great" and less flexibility in the "small" through negotiations. [[Congratulation of the Abg. May. Peter.]] In the context of flexibilization, I would like to say that before the summer there will be a draft assessment of part-sectors with which we young people will hopefully be able to perceive the opportunities of self-employment quickly. [[I should like to congratulate Mr Gredler and Mr Mag. Peter.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Before I conclude, I would also like to say a few words about tourism. For years there have been problems in tourism, and we should be clear about two things, even if it is not always heard: There are exogenous causes in tourism that lead to problems, and there are endogenous, in-house causes that constantly lead to problems. I would like to draw the attention of the High House to an examination of the Austrian hotel loyalty hand. I will also point out, in the course of the new tourism report, which will soon reach the House, that an examination of all crises has shown that 87% of cases are endogenous causes, such as excessive old debt, family problems and the like, that economic change in demand has caused problems at only 3% and so-called natural disasters such as avalanches and so on at 6 percent. This results in 13 percent exogenic causes and 87 percent "home-made" causes. I therefore ask the House to understand that I repeat once again: The aim of the Ministry of Economic Affairs is to reorganise the ÖHT into a genuine consolidation and restructuring bank. In this sector, we must be able to achieve more favourable structures through financial restructuring, whether it be equity capital, long-term loans or eternal mortgages, especially for those in high numbers of young entrepreneurs. A few words on Austria's advertising: After relatively many internal turbulences, of which you have heard enough from the media, I can now tell you that for the first time since the reorganisation there has been an extremely constructive climate in this association. For the first time we have cleared all disputes with the countries, we have focused on marketing and no longer on personnel management, and we are addressing new target markets for the first time. Of course, the miracle does not happen overnight in the face of shrinking demand on our stock markets, but it is very likely to have an impact. And one thing you also have to say: As regards the results of the last year, we have had a real increase in sales in tourism for the first time since 1992. Even if it was only one billion, a trend break from the profit, at least from turnover, seems to be possible. Ladies and gentlemen! Therefore, we remain the main command for the next few years when we think of the future: Let us remember many of our traditional strengths, but let us also remember the strategies that are not possible because of the policy of many years. We cannot reduce public demand in terms of budgetary discipline. We cannot expect that private consumption, which has pushed Austria's economy through many years, will rise sharply. Therefore, we must rely on growth innovation over participation in the global investment culture and on exports to areas where we are strongly represented. But if, for example, we take countries with high structural problems, as was the case in California, and ask ourselves why California has become an example of economic wonders again today, despite the reduction of arms and similar things in recent years, we can explain this to ourselves as follows: Many countries today rely on technologies they expect the growth impulse of the future, not on traditional methods of sectors dependent on public demand. I am thinking, above all, of the media and entertainment industry, of microelectronics, of software, of the sector of industry-related services and of biotechnology. These are in each individual case, including in Austria, areas where there is a high growth potential, and we should focus on these areas more than on those in which we can do nothing more. Finally, Mr President, I have come to the conclusion that we are promoting new businesses, and we have done a lot about this lately. On my visit to the U.S. Under Secretary Eizenstat, the man number two in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, I was immediately addressed to the study of the American Chamber of Commerce in Austria, according to which American investments in Austria require at least one year's approval. I said: Throw away the study. The figures have long been outdated by the mid-term results and are no longer in favour of the companies concerned. Old data from old investigations have been incorporated into the most refocused investor information, but we see that the discussion on a new plant right, which has been held in this House for many months, alone, has led to a reduction in the procedures to a maximum of three months on average. This also speaks abroad, and we should not put our light under the Scheme. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] We will also be able to prove with the hundreds of new professions of youth what we have achieved by deregulation of the trade order. Insolvency policy. Ladies and gentlemen! What we have had to learn from Blumau and Stegersbach in the last few weeks must sound the alarm bells. We have established instruments of early warning, but they do not work. We have credit protection associations – it happens anyway. We have banks that burn their fingers on a regular basis, and at the last moment, we are always supposed to move towards politics. I believe that it will be time to focus more mechanisms towards competition in insolvency law. I would welcome the fact that we would have more credit protection organisations competing in early warning, and I would welcome the introduction of procedures in which we can build on adequate equity coverage. Ladies and gentlemen, I've stopped you long enough. Nevertheless: If the participants in the Austrian economic process – whether entrepreneurs or employees – see those who set the conditions, such as the High House and we in the government, what is happening in the world today, and with regard to the framework conditions adequately argue, I see no reason why Austria could not quickly return to a secure two to three percent growth path and thus prosperity path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e6202	Thank you, Minister of State, Dr. Farnleitner. Announcement of an application for the establishment of an investigative committee
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e6223	I declare that Mrs Dr Schmidt, before entering the agenda in accordance with § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure requested the setting up of an investigative committee to examine the political responsibility of the Federal Government, in particular the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Federal Minister for the Interior and the Federal Minister for Justice in connection with the so-called Kurds murders. Furthermore, according to Article 33 of the Rules of Procedure, the request made by five Members is to hold a debate on this request. According to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure will be debated and put to the vote on this request for the setting up of a committee of inquiry after completion of the agenda for today's sitting. I would ask you to take note of this. I can now give the floor to Mr Edlinger, Minister of Finance. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e6256	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister Farnleitner and I present a comprehensive economic report to you today – a report which, of course, represents a snapshot of the moment, but, of course, shows certain historical trends and future prospects that it is important to examine. I therefore believe that the economic report is quite an appropriate instrument for critically questioning the country's economic policy, for having a discussion and for taking appropriate measures. However, I also believe that a comprehensive report on the economic situation of Austria needs to be based more than ever on an assessment of the international environment. There is no doubt that we are witnesses of great political and economic change: The integration of the former plan economies in Eastern Europe into a market economy-oriented world economy, the completion of European integration by monetary union and the phenomena of globalisation are processes that bring about a new international division of labour. Of course, how successful it is in an economy depends on problem awareness and on the concrete willingness to make changes due to very sober and prejudiceless analyses. These qualities are not only necessary for those who create framework conditions and set economic accents, but basically our entire social system is required. It is a democratically organised society that enables an intensive process of discussion and voting. I believe that the aim of this process is to find viable compromises. There are convincing reasons for this, ladies and gentlemen, that our attitude to the phenomena mentioned should be influenced by a positive attitude, by an attitude which, while also seeing the risks – you should not beautify anything – which, above all, takes advantage of the opportunities that arise, because: Neither is integration linked to a loss of cultural identity, nor does globalisation mean the incessant path to the two-thirds society. Integration is, rather, the logical consequence of globalisation. Overall, as I believe, we can have a vision of greater international distribution justice and of the reduction of potential tensions. At the same time, and this is my view, it protects integration from negative effects of globalisation. From the point of view of European integration, this means maintaining European values and creating a political and economic infrastructure that solves problems through specific European ethics and excludes the concept of violence. I think this is one of the essential positions in connection with European integration. [[In the case of the SPÖ, representatives of the ÖVP and the Agg. Dr. Van der Bellen.]] Austria, ladies and gentlemen, like many other European countries, is in a process of adapting to new, major structural challenges; However, adaptation did not seem passive, but was made offensively and as an initiative. As the first of the major challenges, I would like to mention the opening of the East. If someone had made himself here ten years ago and meant that in two years there was no longer the Berlin Wall, he would probably have been laughed at. Ten years are an extremely short time in the development of an economic situation, in the transformation of structures that regulate economic action. The opening of the East brought not only new markets and expansion opportunities for many countries of Europe, but also for the immediate neighbours of the reform countries, namely Austria and Germany, as well as democratic and stable political conditions in the immediate neighbourhood, but also placed competitors directly at the doorstep of our economy – competitors who, due to their low prices and wage costs, make home businesses very difficult. While all the studies show that Austria is benefiting from the opening of the East, especially through an increase in exports, we cannot and must not close our eyes to the fact that imports and, above all, shopping tourism have increased enormously and are already harmful in many areas and regions. A number of sectors and economic sectors, particularly in border areas, are increasingly to be protected from unfair competition. – This too is a task that we have done. The second challenge is Western European integration. She's changing a lot. Participation in the internal market and the logically meaningful next step towards EMU have already brought opportunities for countless European companies in the future: Opportunities for more growth, opportunities for more jobs, such as the Economic Research Institute in its forecast, in its study, is striking, but, and this too must be seen, more opportunities for everyone, that is, for others, and thus competition in their own country. The third major challenge is what one understands as globalisation. Many industries, which were a domain of the European economy a few decades ago, are facing global competition today. Large European companies have not only lost market shares, their leading names, but also, above all, thousands of jobs. Highly specialized and technological products for the world market are produced at prices in many countries with which we simply cannot join in Europe. But this challenge must not only be passively registered, people want to respond to this challenge, and there are answers to it. There is not the answer, but there is a bundle of measures. The economy of Austria and Europe must be better - that is a keyword - than competition. It is no longer useful today to be the best in the street, the best in the place or the best in the country, but one must be the best at all. And despite greater demands, people must be able to live in prosperity and peace – and that is what they want. This mix of economic and social quality has made Austria rich and Europe really desirable throughout the world. Not only can good work be done in Europe but it can also be well lived. And that distinguishes us from many countries in the world. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Common features of the new development are that they contribute significantly to the further internationalisation of the Austrian economy. Minister Farnleitner has pointed out this in some areas. However, the internationalisation of the Austrian economy also has another aspect that I would like to introduce here: With every sale of company shares to foreign owners, people are concerned that Austrian interests are no longer sufficiently perceived and that jobs could be lost in Austria. Therefore, if we continue the path of privatisation – which I represent – and the disintegration, we must take into account the dangers and fears of the people. Therefore, the discussion on state-owned assets – and I say so quite deliberately, or as Minister of Finance in particular – must not be unilaterally reduced to the question of the privatisation proceeds achieved during sale. We should also keep in mind the question of strategic ownership of key sectors of the economy in the country. In the energy sector, banking, the advanced industry, it must not be a matter of individual economic objectives alone, but must also be a matter of achieving Austria's overall economic objectives. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We should tackle these processes constructively and promote them in the interests of our country and not harm the business of politically motivated disputes in our country. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Not only for businesses and workers, but also for economic policy as a whole, does the change mean that old recipes can no longer be applied in the same way as before, even if they have been successful in the past. High house! We have a quite successful Austrian path of economic policy behind us. We must now continue this path for the economy, for more growth and for more employment creatively and courageously. The main aim is to adapt the economic environment to the new needs. Adjustment – which I say quite clearly – means more individual design space in a number of areas – such as the shop opening times, the working time law or the trade regulations. Much has happened in this regard in recent months; of course – and I also give quite openly – not always to the joy of those concerned, but ultimately to the long-term interest of those concerned and to the preservation of their employment – whether self-employed or self-employed. In other areas, adaptation means the creation of modern incentives instead of traditional steering methods. The provision of many services, such as telecommunications, is not necessarily a public service task, as has already been mentioned. Therefore, there have already been many institutional reforms in Austria, such as the reconstruction and privatisation, the very successful privatisation of the former state-owned industry. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The new tasks we are dealing with will best be solved if we approach them openly and pragmatically. With the setting "That was always so!" or, "Not with us!" Such necessary reforms are delayed and the opportunity to co-form developments is frowned, because in the end, we are in fact left with no choice but to face the new challenges to our economy. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] It is crucial to me as a social and democratic person that we deal with the new challenges in the spirit of social fairness, especially in the sense of a harmonious balance and compromise. Therefore, the question of the fair distribution of the jointly generated will have to remain on the agenda in particular when it comes to strengthening the competitiveness and economic location of Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mr President. High house! Economic development in Austria has been similar in recent years in relation to Europe. Also in Austria – and this is very unfortunate – the weakness phase was unexpectedly long, into the late year 1996. Since the last quarter of 1996, a slow and positive economic development has occurred. Demand and production have revived, and I believe that, above all, the upturn in Austria has been driven by exports to the EU, which have also increased as a result of the growth in Austria. It can therefore be expected to increase slightly this year. Economic growth of about 1.5 percent is expected from the domestic economic research institutes, the European Commission, the OECD and the International Monetary Fund. In this way, Austrian growth dynamics will be just below the average of the European Union, which is very good results in the context of the sustainable effort to consolidate public budgets in Austria, as I believe. For 1998, economic researchers expect about 2.2 percent. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The question of employment is a central question for me, although the situation on the labour market in Austria is still favourable internationally. But people don't live in comparison, they live in the country. Therefore, it is not useful to talk about any data, but it is our task – embedded in politics as well as the European Union – to consider this issue as an Austrian one. If, according to economic researchers, the unemployment rate in 1997, is between 4.2 and 4.3 percent, and thus far below the EU average, I am still not satisfied. Even in the so-called new economic miracle countries USA, New Zealand, the Netherlands or Ireland, unemployment rates are significantly higher than those of Austria. This should not be forgotten in the discussion, where these countries like to be brought to our attention as an example. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] In the United States, the unemployment rate is 5.5 percent, in the Netherlands 6.5 percent, in New Zealand 6 percent and in Ireland still over 11 percent. Not that I am pleased, I would just like to point out that this situation does not come by itself, but that it has been created in this country, which means that employment is available to an almost unique extent worldwide. And we should all, no matter what political party we belong to, be proud in the interests of the citizens of our country. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! But goals must also be articulated in this context. I refer to the debate that we have also held in Amsterdam when we have made very strong efforts to express and formulate full employment as one of the European Union's political objectives. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Of course, everyone knows that the achievement of this huge objective is not a matter which can be handled from one day to another, but I believe – and I say this in all clarity – that it is the political objective of this government to put in place measures that are as close as possible to full employment. And this goal is just as legitimate as we also set ourselves the goal of ever-ending peace in this world, although everyone knows that this is not at all easy to achieve. That is, full employment is the goal of this Federal Government. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] However, in addition to Austrian measures, it will be necessary to set new priorities at all other levels, including at European level. The Amsterdam EU Summit was a first major step in this direction, and we can also appreciate it as an Austrian that employment in the EU has become a number one issue. I know you can't create a job with any resolution. I am now part of the ECOFIN Council for a few months, but I have noticed that the subject has changed in the debate. The finance ministers of Europe are discussing this problem, and this is a lot at first, because it is actually expected by finance ministers that they fall in love with budget consolidation and other structural measures up to the last detail, but then leave the position of employment to the ministers of labour. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Yesterday, the first ECOFIN meeting under the Luxembourg Presidency took place in Brussels, and the Luxembourg Prime Minister and Finance Minister made it clear and clear that he will use all possibilities for the Luxembourg Summit in November, including on the subject: What can Europe do to promote employment? And since, ladies and gentlemen, it is not just a matter of more money, it is a matter of many things that hinder economic development and which ultimately need to be removed. In addition, however, we will have to strive for a massive coordination of national employment programmes, because employment is a question – and so it should remain – of the national states, because – and I say this also here in public – it cannot be the philosophy of a net payer country to increase EU contributions to finance work programmes of European nature. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] But we have to help to implement all the measures that will also enable the national employment programmes to be coordinated. We have to consider how, for example, we could formulate and execute a common foreign trade policy. We have to consider the role of the European Investment Bank and the European Investment Fund in the future and the use of all its measures. We have to see tax harmonisation as a very important aspect in order to prevent unfair competition by the creation of fiscal ones. And I believe that, especially with regard to the financial perspective in the European Union, which needs to be re-structured from the year 2000, the question of the Structural Funds and also the question of the financing of the European agricultural policy should be re-examined. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! Between 1992 and 1995, I would also like to address the more recent discussion, the financial deficit of all public households in relation to gross domestic product in Austria increased from 1.9 percent to 5.3 percent. In other words, we have had no problems in 1992 with many of the criteria that still concern us today, but in the meantime. At this time, the debt ratio also increased from 58 to 69.4 percent, and without counter-taxes, the deficit of public budgets had now increased to around 8 percent of GDP. I would just like to outline the causes of the deterioration of the situation. Co-responsible for this was certainly a less dynamic economic development in the 1990s – about until 1995 – when it was expected at the beginning of the decade. In Austria we have been very considerate and motivated in the area of social benefits. We have improved care insurance, pension rights for women and the like. Tax reliefs in the course of the 1994 tax reform also played a role; they have caused very positive effects for our country, particularly in the field of business – Minister Farnleitner has pointed out. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I therefore believe that those considerations which started the consolidation of these budgets in 1996 and 1997 were socially acceptable, that they were necessary and that they brought us, above all, one thing: In future, we have also structured our own budget within the Economic and Monetary Union in such a way as to restore its ability to act. However, a number of factors also make it necessary this year and over the next two years a restrictive budget implementation and partly revenue-based measures. But we are already very far, and if I listen or take part in the discussions among the European finance ministers, then I have to say that I hardly really want to exchange with one. We want, and I would like to make it quite clear, to pursue a policy that does not provide the Austrian population with a third package of savings. And there will also be no intervention in existing pensions, as some claim. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] But what we already have to do today is to set the course so that this best pension system in the world – for that is what we have in Austria, and we should be proud of it – is also secure in the future and can also be paid out in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In the next few years, the debt situation must, above all, be permanently reduced, because almost every seventh budget schilling is also spent this year on the interest rates of public debt, and that is clearly too much. Any schilling that can not be spent on interest, but on investment, for example, is a winning schilling, and an essential step in this is to reduce re-indebtedness. No one can afford to spend much more than he takes. Our medium-term budgetary objective must therefore also be to further reduce the federal deficit in line with the stability and convergence criteria. The discussions and negotiations for the 1998 and 1999 budgets are under way, and I am confident that we will be able to present good budget proposals to Parliament. In order to achieve this, the various areas of activity will need to be achieved in the next two years with the resources available to them today. We expect that there will be no increases in expenditure. The cost of new expenditure must be compensated by the withdrawal of other previous expenditure. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The consolidation of public budgets and the reduction of the public debt ratio has also created a significant improvement and prerequisite for Austria's participation in the third stage of EMU. I assume – and this was demonstrated yesterday by the discussions in Brussels – that with the creation of EMU we must have one. It is expected that the European Union will be able to do so in 1999. I also think this is necessary, because any other form, any shift would endanger the project. What would have been the point of saving and consolidating painfully throughout Europe, then by shifting the EMU, which, on the other hand, The positive effect of national intermediate benefits that have arisen everywhere, and so forth in Austria, will bring more opportunities for growth? My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! For a variety of reasons, Austria, as I believe, is predestined to see the challenges of the present and the future as an opportunity. We have a well-trained, diligent population with high qualifications and a high level of work. In contrast to many other countries – through our history and through our institutions – we have a high level of social consensus and cohesion, and I believe that this is very important. People have the certainty that, through economic and social change, they are not catapulted from society, thrown into the abyss or sunk into hopelessness. Austria is a social country, and Austria will remain a social country. In recent months, the Federal Government has presented numerous programmes of forward-looking nature – Federal Minister Farnleitner has partly addressed this – whose aim is to contribute to the benefits of European integration in order to improve the competitiveness of the economic location, to the creation and safeguarding of jobs, to safeguarding prosperity and to the increased participation of Austria. For example, I call the export and technology offensive that has already been spoken of. Quality, ladies and gentlemen, is what we have to develop, and I would like to make a few comments. Quality is also the goal of our apprenticeship offensive. We need to create a common effort – public authorities and private sector – to give new impetus to our recognised vocational training system. If our economy wants to be successful in exporting if it wants to improve its competitiveness through research and development, then it inevitably follows the need to invest in the training of employees and to achieve new and further objectives, such as the possibility of reaching vocational maturity examinations up to higher education. I believe that this permeability is what gives the goal of permanent learning meaning and content at all. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In line with the report and the statements made by the Minister for Economic Affairs, I have tried to give a rough overview of the changes in the framework conditions for Austria's economy and the strategies, activities and actions of the Federal Government. In all of this, the thought is that we do not do all of this as a purpose of our own, but for the people of this country. Successful management of structural change requires not only flexibility, liberalisation, in part privatisation and innovation, but also social protection for those who lose their jobs in the course of change. A new technology offensive is primarily no longer demanding money, but above all an optimal organisational structure, an upgrading of the technological infrastructure and a concentration of strategic skills. An export offensive, ladies and gentlemen, does not primarily require further tax relief, but rather the production of an offer to those services, which, in particular, allow small and medium-sized enterprises to enter the risky export business. A successful EU economic and monetary policy requires not only monetary and fiscal stability and the independence of the European Central Bank, but also greater coordination of Member States' economic policies and a common fight against unemployment in Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Successful employment policies require not only job creation measures but also optimum coordination and coordination between macro-political and structural policies, both at European and national level. Not least, ladies and gentlemen, successful economic policies are expressed not only in high growth rates and high-speed financial markets, but above all in ensuring and developing the prosperity and income of the citizens of a country, in the successful security of employment and in the fight against unemployment. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Highly esteemed ladies and gentlemen! High house! Like most industrialized countries, Austria faces major challenges requiring structural change in different areas. The controversial public debate on reform programmes sometimes conceals the fact that our country has a healthy economic base. This concerns not only monetary stability, but also the functioning of the financial markets, the so-called human capital as well as the performance of the mainly small and medium-sized enterprises. Our socio-economic system – allow me to make this observation – is driven by the engine of productivity progress. But we will not sacrifice the quality of life in this process, nor will we throw the social component overboard. As regards its interest groups, Austria – and for this we are envied by many – is characterized by a comparatively high organisational density. This scaffolding is a significant advantage when it comes to solutions of complex social issues. However, there is a need for a condition that cannot be stressed often enough: We need to maintain the consensus-oriented problem-solving culture, which has also been the trademark of Austrian economic and social policy over the past decades. In this sense, ladies and gentlemen, we are presenting the economic report.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e6538	I would like to thank the Federal Minister for his statement. We now come to the debate on both statements. I am the first speaker to give Mr Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn's word. – Mr deputies, you have given a 10 minute voluntary limit on speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e6565	Mr President. Estimated Minister! High house! Mr Farnleitner, the Minister for Economic Affairs, has made statements here that would have been very suitable for a good night's sending for my two little daughters. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But they are certainly not suitable to do something against the sleepless nights of the unemployed, pensioners and the representatives of the economy. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: unemployed pensioners?- Oh, my God!]] The Minister of Finance has also failed international financial policy with his great announcements. I'll say why, but let me first come to the cause of the evil: Finally, the cause of the evil lies in more than 25 years of socialist cameraistic economic and financial policy, and as a short-term minister you are not responsible for it! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In the period of the cold war, we were able to save ourselves a lot of money and invest in deficit spending, in unwise state administration; there was employment, and we are still suffering today under these structures. We have not used this time to bring about structural reforms in our country. Now, in the 1990s, it is not the economy that is meeting us, but the failure of the seventies and eighties, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In his opening speech in 1996, Minister Farnleitner said something very honest: We need internationalisation, we lack political power in Austria for liberalisation and deregulation. – I have read it more: He said very honest words back then, but this power did not come about in the meantime. If the Minister of Economic Affairs had worked in free competition, he might have been able to obtain this power and resources. But the same applies to the Minister for Finance. If you're talking about international competition and making comparisons here, I can only tell you: You're talking about another country! You already quoted it today. Here you can read the 1997 figures for Austria, here You see where we stand in international competition [[The speaker shows a report]] We fell back from the eleventh to the 16th. Place, and now we're on the 20th. It's all right. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: What criteria?]] Almost all EU countries have overtaken us, Mr Economic Doctor! Finally, we are in the EU, not only in growth, but also in other factors of competition. You have to take note of that! The report is still in English, but it will be translated into German, Mr Minister, and then it may be easier for you to read. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Marizzi: You needed that again!]] Ladies and gentlemen, stop talking about this country with half-truths in something – which has already made it clear to the Foreign Minister today early in the current hour. Stop talking this country into something. They introduce us with statistics that are actually from the Austrian Statistical Central Office and are not even taken over by EUROSTAT. In the end, half-truths are also untruths. And believe me: We're world champions in this, and it just doesn't work anymore! Let's just get to the number one unemployment, let's get to your unemployment figures. – In Austria, we measured 6 percent of the unemployed on the labour force; Germany measured 9 percent of the unemployed on the labour force. If you now add – which is undisputed in Austria – parts of the early pensioners and the members of invalidity pensions, then you come to a number of plus 3 per cent from both titles – that is to read at the IHS, that is to read at the Wifo – that is to say, you suddenly come from 6 per cent unemployed as measured by the employees in Austria to say and write 12. This is by 3 percent more than in Germany, and of course all this is at the expense of pensioners. If you issue pension guarantees today, they are worth as much as Mr Vice-Chancellor and Mr Vranitzky's in 1995: nothing. You can't give up. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The structure of employees – you can also read this in this report – is not only worse due to the telecoms and energy industries, but also because of other areas in Austria and is also a final light in Europe. And the apprenticeship initiative – where does it stay, please? Where are the results of your apprenticeship initiative? – The President of the Industrial Association must send a circular letter to the Austrian industry: Take apprentices because the government has remained sparse in the question of apprentices. – This is the support they get. A few apprentices were hired there – this is ultimately your apprenticeship initiative. You have all rejected our requests to attract the teaching profession in order to finally equalize the teaching profession with the AHS profession in financial terms – as far as the loads are concerned. The teaching profession was the Ashchenbrödel in this country, and he remained. But for you, the world is healthy. I understand, because the political privileges have She's excellently defending: The distance allowances for the National Councils have increased – instead of 100 000 S I now have 108 000 S – while at the same time you have removed the penalty fees. That's the reality! You're talking about another country when you're talking about economic policy, you're not talking about the currents in Austria. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But in a country where old German chancellor Vrannitzky refers to 5 million Schilling pension from Bank Austria and will now receive a few million from WestLB in order to involve the CA eastern daughters of the WestLB, I am afraid of the pensions – namely, the pensions of those who already receive minimum pensions today, not those who are in the protected area, both of them as well as Mr. Bundeskanzler Klima. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But the next load package comes on quiet soles: the valorization of the charges. Public charges will be valorised. Not that you believe the pensions will be valorized – no, the public taxes will be valorized, exactly what you argue with the pensioners. Whether it's called stamp tax or what you're going to call it: It is the load package number 3 after Mr. Finanzminister Lacina, a follow-up to Mr. Finanzminister Klima and now Mr. Finanzminister Edlinger were at work or are at work. 25 years of socialism show their effect. I can tell you: Also, the additional wage costs that you have begun to reduce in this country to improve the competitive location of Austria have only increased since then. You have even risen since your last announcement that we will lower them! And what are you doing? – You will, of course, get liquidity injections from the economy, ultimately from taxpayers to the budget, in order to get over them again in order to improve your poor balance sheet for the Maastricht criteria with liquidity. And our children will have to pay for what you do today in the future. The social security contributions in Austria, as shown by a competition study, are the highest in Europe. We have the highest social security contributions – read it, here it stands! – both from employers and employees. [[Abg. Dietachmayr: But also the highest achievements!]] And I tell you, even if this ultimately harms the economic location of Austria, our labour costs increase considerably and unfortunately God does not bring to the individual worker anything – it flows everything for your famous 400 billion Schilling cross-subsidisation, as the Federal Chancellor calls it, into other channels. If you say that you are now taking on structural reforms, and there is only a small need for action in the telecommunications and energy sectors, then I must tell you: This need for action would have existed ten years ago. But what was done? – In order to protect the state monopoly, the economy and consumers were dropped, on the Telekom sector by -20 billion! - Today they pay the bill. They have done exactly the same in the energy sector: They've thrown the population down! And what's now? If we compare Austrian electricity prices with those in the EU, we can see that in some areas we are even at the top of prices for consumers, for small consumers, and for those for the economy at the highest level. It is obviously difficult for you to admit that. The Energy Organisation Act is still not decided, the Telekom Act is actually anything but what we expected. The capital market is still broken, the stock market is owned by national banks. In all these key areas, they have achieved nothing but that Austria is final everywhere. And this report is not an "F" book, it is a book that the EU, the OECD, the international institutes issue: There we are. Finally call the child by name! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] A few more words on technology policy: You said you were so proud of your technology policy, Minister Edlinger. The Austrian state pays the economy only one third of what is EU-cut. Don't always say, everything went without indirect tax reliefs: If all our competition countries have them, we will also need them, the others will have thought about them. Today, when you make business comparisons with regard to the results, you always see in the main positions – capital costs, energy costs, Telekom – deviations of the Austrian industry and economy, which go to the -20 billion, but which is constantly bagatized by you. We liberals have therefore long drawn up an economic programme and an alliance for work, in which you can read all of this: our actions, how we finally imagine a tax reform, how we imagine a job creation programme. They have followed us in many ways last year, I admit; However, they have remained in the middle of the road, in which trade reform is the same as in the Telekom Act, and you will not even be able to go half way under the Energy Ordinance Act. I'm just telling you: If you don't now – and with "now" I mean today! – begin to tell the Austrians the truth, admit where we stand, and continue to give us tramplizers, sleepers, so that we just do not recognize the reality that is so important for the restructuring, then you are guilty as in a case of negligent Krida. You shouldn't do that to our children, our pensioners, the unemployed. I urge you once again and ask for something different by autumn than the statement you presented to us today.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e6700	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Maderthaner. Similarly, 10 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e6722	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! The reports of the Federal Government and the first reaction of the opposition show that we are living in two political worlds. One is the world of blackseers and black painters, who always explain with raised toe fingers what you do wrong – the other is the world that shows this great, perhaps the greatest challenge since 1945. – Ladies and gentlemen, these challenges require optimism, commitment to the future and entrepreneurship – these are the prerequisites for this. [[Abg. Dietachmayr: Graumaler!]] It's certainly not easy, my Ladies and gentlemen, to address these challenges accordingly, but we are just trying with optimism to do so. There are certainly setbacks, not a question, but despite all of this, correct steps have been taken in the right direction just recently. The starting point for the necessary adjustments and changes is still good in Austria, I think. Both ministers have pointed to low inflation, low interest rates, stable currency, relatively low unemployment, and I can only assist them in these areas. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] These are the conditions on which a positive mood can be built. However, we have also been confirmed by the reports that there is still more to be heard about full employment and the safeguarding of our social standard and that there is much to do about it in the future. It has been recognized what is necessary and what is to be done, and this is also the case in the reports. High house! It will not be enough for us to simply lean back and wait for the government to act by itself. We are all called on to take part in the social partners, as well as all the political forces that are in this country's best interests. Ladies and gentlemen! We need all energy to create more equity, to force research and development and technology policy. We need the cooperation of all forces to further increase exports, to stabilise the budget, to reduce bureaucracy and to ensure that pensions are safeguarded permanently. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The management of all these tasks is a prerequisite for ensuring employment in our country. Let me say a word on the current occasion to ensure pensions. There too one must realistically see things. Those who want to maintain our social system at a high level – and I believe that we all want to do so – must also be ready for change if it is necessary. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] One has to say clearly and clearly that everyone today is financing a pension system that can be called the most expensive pension system in the world, even though it may be the best, without having the certainty, especially the boys, that they can also benefit from a secure pension from the year 2030. This must also be clearly maintained here, so we must now take up reforms. First of all, there must be cost-saving reforms in the protected sector, whether you want to hear this or not, but that is simply necessary, and this must not be postponed to the long-term. In any case, there is a need for action. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I do not think anything about it when the ÖGB is talking about hasty reform steps in this context. This information has been used for a long time, and has been used for years to prevent necessary reform. What we need is action and not words, and we need them now, as Mr Rürup's study clearly shows. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Nor does the criticism of those who want to identify these problems and address them change. Ladies and gentlemen! I said earlier that we need the cooperation of all forces to promote research and development, to promote export and technology policy. Every second job in Austria is known to depend on the external economy. The export offensive is therefore to be welcomed and is a national concern, which has always been for the Austrian economy and for the representation of the economy. The work of our External Economic Organisation of the Austrian Chamber of Commerce has so far been quite successful. I may mention the numbers: After all, the Austrian exports increased from 512 billion Schilling in 1994 to 580 billion Schilling in 1995 and reached 612 billion Schilling in the previous year. But that is still not enough, as we know, as imports also rise. Such large increases as they can be described were only possible because we have deliberately encouraged small and medium-sized enterprises to export in recent years with the help of a global foreign trade network. Above all, we have also tried to make clear that we must also go in far away markets, as has been clearly demonstrated by the reports today, because we have the large growth markets there. We need a new export family, we need joint effort, a cooperation of all the forces that can contribute to the increase in exports. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We also need concrete assistance from the state in the first phase. Our proposals to improve the export environment, namely the provision of risk capital for export promotion and funding for research and development, have been incorporated into the government programme. The Federal Government has promised to implement this quickly, and first steps in this direction are clearly recognizable. Ladies and gentlemen! I do not agree with those who believe that the technology question would not be a financial question. On the other hand, the figures alone speak of Austria's enormous need for follow-up to research and development. Unfortunately, in this area we have missed something for many years, which is something we must also note, so the necessary effort is much greater. If it were to increase the export rate by 3 percentage points by 3 percentage points through the promotion of research and development and through export and technology offensive, this would, as we know, bring some 36 000 jobs. This would, of course, be very valuable in terms of securing jobs and creating jobs. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Let me also say a word about pushing back bureaucracy. This is a subject that has really been working on us for a long time and where we have not yet achieved what we wanted. There were a few steps, but there was still a lot too little happening. In this context, the Minister of Finance has spoken about reorientation of the working methods in the state administration. That's very pleasing. I think it is positive that he has also talked about customer benefits, because of course this is important. It has done something in this direction lately. In any event, I am pleased that we are on a good path, as I believe, because it is recognised by everyone that something has to be done in this area to help the economy and thus to do something positive for job security. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Although we have already achieved many things, we must bear in mind that other countries have already adopted additional necessary measures, thus ensuring a significant competitive edge. We should work together to take steps that make it possible for us to continue to keep the economy strong in Austria. I know that this is not easy, but if we work together to make necessary reforms, I am convinced that we will be able to be among those who can speak in the European economy and in the world economy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I can conclude with that. We are bold to tackle the topics of pensions, exports, technology, red tape, capitalisation and the stabilisation of the budget, and we will help to ensure that Austria will continue to be at the forefront in the future. This is essential because it also gives us a state that can develop further in social security and in a good economic climate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e6817	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Peter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e6839	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! After qualifying the reports of the two ministers as good night stories, Mr Prinzhorn immediately announced the world's downfall. I admit that there are a large number of things to criticise on economic policy and on the economic situation. Only one thing we need to get: this is a positive mood. I do not think, Mr Maderthaner, that there are only two political worlds. You're quite right about that, but there are three. The only ones are the black painters – we have just heard – the second group are those who show the challenges – that is why you have made a fair effort in your speech – and the third group are those who hinder the reforms. Maybe we'll talk about her. Who, then, are those in our society who always know how it is not, depending on what the situation is? Where is the isolation of the officials in Austria, which hinders these reforms and genuine reform approaches? I leave it to you today to seek the answer for yourself. This is because the problem is: The transformation of this world is taking place very quickly, and we in our country are very rarely prepared to really anticipate the change in advance. We are only willing to act and implement reforms if the "roof plate" is already so hot that we can no longer stand on it. Mr Minister for Economic Affairs and also Mr Finanzminister! You have described here the situation of our country, which is to be agreed. Only, you have very few – and I regret that – look into the future, into the future that is coming much faster than we all believe. They have not differed according to the different sectors of our economy. I'll give you the right to: The industry is more than ever the backbone of our economy, it is the primary value added. And what the Austrian export industry has done in the last two, three years is really grand. The structural change in this area is completed in the first phase, but it will still release at least 30 percent of the employees there during the second phase. This is a problem that we have to face. The tertiary sector, which should take up these employees, the many thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises in the tertiary sector cannot accept them, because the limiting factor is undoubtedly labour costs in Austria. The limiting factor is not the gross wages – I insist on adding them over and over again – the limiting factor is the total labour costs that we have in Austria; it is the third highest in the European Union. It does not help us the excuse that all the countries whose labour costs are among the tenth highest in the world are all in Europe. That's the euro-sclerosis. That is not to say, at the same time as the American system, but that means that it is necessary to examine what labour costs need to be financed by the labour production factor and what can be done in other areas. It is not at all helpful when the class struggle starts again. Mr Nürnberger! That's certainly not yours, that's from the ÖGB, PBA Linz-Land/Urfahr: "3. ==References== [[The speaker shows this paper.]] So, ladies and gentlemen, I haven't gotten in my hands for the last five or six years. Here's literally, please: Shortening of pay additional costs means no more holiday and Christmas allowance, no more payment in case of sickness, no payment, no accident insurance, no employers' contributions to health, pension and unemployment insurance, no care allowance, no paid free time in case of doctor's visit, birth, transfer, funeral, marriage. – But more profit for entrepreneurs! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! You can't be that stupid. This is the past, here we greet the past, but we are talking about the future of the country. We're talking about how we can secure gross wages. We're talking about how we can do work. We're talking about how we can keep people in employment in the future – and the ÖGB's answer is: Shortening additional wage costs means more profit for entrepreneurs! It's sad. It is really, really sad, and, Mr Nürnberger, I kindly urge you to tell your friends and members in the ÖGB line that what they are doing is truly stunning. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] So if the secondary and also the quarterly sector, insurance companies, banks et cetera, reduce up to 30 percent of their employees in the next few years, we need to find answers today. We find the answers largely in the personal service, in the deregulation that allows us to open up new markets, namely, to open up new domestic markets to increase our own quality of life. Another problem is the lack of flexibilization, the people with disabilities – I have already mentioned this third political world – are the obsolete standards of protection, which ultimately strengthen the workers and provide the unemployed with hopelessness. That does not mean, of course, that there should be unprotected employees, that is unbearable, it is about eliminating obsolete protection standards and false social policy taboos. How much employment in the field of personal services would be possible at realistic labour costs in Austria if only it were allowed? I predict one, ladies and gentlemen, on the economic situation: We will have far more than 300,000 unemployed in the coming winter – and it will hurt me to say that – and there will be a big discussion, and there may be a urgent request for it, but then everything will be too late again. I have missed the perspective in your reports, which have described the situation, so that this scenario of far over 300 000 unemployed will not become reality in the coming winter. One thing has to be clear to us, and this is especially addressed to the Minister for Finance: The budget spaces are exhausted. He also let us know for himself in his speech. With 1 800 billion Schilling government debt and 100 billion Schilling interest per year, there are no longer room for play. So where is the power in this country? The power lies in opening up the country to its markets, to its customers in order to move value added into the country and create employment. In this respect, I have not heard enough in the two reports, I regret it. The current account deficit, Minister of Economic Affairs, has not been tailored to you. It is not so easy to say that we are changing the schilling against the euro, and the current account deficit is no longer interested in us. As an economist, you know that this will ultimately mean the regional economic power of our country and that it will very soon have an effect on the interest rate level in Austria if we do not reduce this chronic current account deficit. Right now it's growing even more than we love. The Minister of Finance has also lost every margin in the tax and tax rate. It was not said: Today we have the highest tax and tax rate in Austria we have ever had in this country. That doesn't mean... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Heindl.]] It's 45 percent, Dr. Heindl, the tax rate has never been that high. Our previous record was 43 percent. They are not allowed to draw the 1995 figures, but the 1997 figures with the impact of all the savings packages that have already been decided. What makes me even more concerned is that we need to see more and more frustration with small and medium-sized enterprises in all the successes we have experienced in industry. This "storage newspaper" will not necessarily reduce this frustration, it will increase it even more. You need small and medium-sized entrepreneurs because you have too little self-employed in this country. Consider why you have so few self-employed! What policy have you made for ten years? Have you really promoted independence, or have you had the indifference in mind? Have you forgotten that we need entrepreneurs to be able to provide jobs? However, the corresponding policy has been avoided. I experience more and more in discussions with entrepreneurs that they actually have the nose full that instead of 12 employees they only want to employ more than six because they say the costs for an additional master, the costs for an additional lot that I put in, can no longer be brought in. Have you considered what it means for someone, whether as an unself-employed person he inherits a million schillings, perhaps inherited by the grandmother, perhaps he has saved them, put on the bank and collects 5 percent interest minus 25 percent Kest or whether he has the unheard-of madness to put it into a company where the income is burdened with the minimum price and he also pays at least 50 percent income tax? Yes, ladies and gentlemen, have you considered these laws? They have only 6.4 percent self-employed in Austria. That's the growth of your policy! Change this policy! There are skilled young people in Austria. There are women and men who want to become independent, but not under the conditions, especially in the field of small and medium-sized enterprises which you offer them. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] The pleas are examined. The pleas are analysed. In the next few days, we will adopt an insolvency law that will improve in a wide range of areas. But, Minister of Economic Affairs, I cannot agree to you – industry, industry – if you make it so easy and say that 80 percent of the plea factors are endless and 20 percent are exogenous. That was about the numbers you mentioned. It's not that simple. There is no doubt that errors are made in enterprises as well as in the administration. In the companies it punishes the market with bankruptcy. Only when you put on the cost screw that way, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, will an ever larger part fall out of the market. If you are hindering the formation of equity through wrong tax legislation, namely through the full taxation of the non-absorbed profits – because when we talk about small and medium-sized enterprises, we are essentially talking about personal and individual companies – if you are taking such measures, then you must not be surprised when more and more small and medium-sized enterprises fall out of the market because they cannot create structural change under these conditions. I think it is therefore far too short to say – I am now saying it quite salopp – that: 80 percent of entrepreneurs are simply and simply too down to run a business. The question is: What entrepreneurs do we get when 80 percent are too stupid? Young entrepreneurs will undoubtedly not work in this form of minimum-cosm. Ladies and gentlemen! When we discuss the economic situation of this country, we also need to talk about the cost of Austria's economic location as a whole. We need to debate what this country costs, what the international markets are finally willing to pay for, and what Austrians themselves are doing. You're going to shop abroad. In 1995 it was 31 billion schilling, for 1996 I have no value yet, it will be safe about it, and in 1997 it will continue to rise. The Austrians, who spend their vacation abroad, are not only fleeing this miserable weather, but also fleeing the expensive service site of Austria. They drive to where the total cost of the service country of Austria is much lower and where they receive a similar benefit at a lower cost. Did you know that only the company doctor part of the Workers' Protection Act will cost businesses up to 100 employees around 1 billion Schilling? – Yes, of course, there are many good arguments for this. But have you also examined the question: Who will pay these 1 billion schillings, which markets are also able to pay these 1 billion schillings? Each of us is for perfect waste disposal and garbage dumps. - That's not a question at all. But have you wondered who will pay the costs for it? – Farms today suffer from the fact that municipal charges for waste, canal and water explode in such a way that they simply cannot accommodate them in the prices. And if you work in the export sector, you can see that the purchasing power is lost and migrated to other countries. Let us examine, ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about the economic situation of our country, the cost of the economic location as a whole. I read the book "SOS in the Rule Forest" with great interest. . A work I would recommend to all political groups, because it is in fact a matter of not only appreciating the costs of laws, so what they cost the administration, the local authorities, but therefore, what the laws cost the standard recipients, the households, the citizens in that country. This is the point you have not taken into account in recent years. This is the reason why Austria's economic location has become so expensive and is increasingly losing demand for customers and thus also in employment. I'm still adding security so you don't misunderstand me. Where rationalization, productivity can be increased, you can implement increasing costs of the country with competitive unit labour costs. There are perhaps 500 000 people employed in this area, which essentially covers the export-oriented industry, but the other two million people, when I look at the 600 000, 700 000 public servants, are employed in the private sector. And that is essentially not the point of increasing productivity, because the increase in productivity is not possible in this area. There, the costs are always met by the final selling price, and if the market does not pay the price, they are going directly to hit the operating result. And then they still have to listen that they are 80 percent too stupid to run a business because they are obviously endogenous factors. So simple, I think, it can't be the school master's policy. I therefore make a self-employed request which I have taken from this book. Mrs. Dr. Fekter of the Austrian People's Party has made the effort to think about the costs of laws. Unfortunately, she did not make the request herself. She knows that I am making her request in a slightly modified form today, because I think it is a pity not to make such a request to the House. It should be written to you, ladies and gentlemen, political mandates, once in the main book: Before you submit a request here, please check carefully what the cost of what you are asking for! And the government is written in the main book: Not only are the administrative costs of a law interesting, but also the costs for businesses and the costs for households. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] We therefore ask you with this request, which we hope will be dealt with soon in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, Madam President - I hope it is not the same as in the trade regulations you have for 14 months - that any law explanatory remarks are made, in which it is held, which in the end the standard recipients have to pay for the House's re-hushing of a new law. Ladies and gentlemen! Let me conclude with a few considerations on the budget. In fact, the design of public budgets, the budget, should have only a small impact on the economic situation in that country, because the budget is the chamberalist part. It is the part that provides the framework conditions, it is public consumption, which contains only a very small part of public investment. Value creation comes from the economy of this country. However, the financial situation of the federal government is so tense that we can only expect additional burdens in the areas of business. However, these further burdens result in a further loss of market opportunities and thus a further loss of employment. That is why the budget, Mr. Finanzminister, will eventually become a central issue of the economic location. If you really do not succeed – your predecessors did not succeed either, you did not do so in your speech, which is why the budget has completely run out of the row – to break the expenditure trends through real reforms, to re-recognise the budget and to allow a tax and tax ratio of 40 percent, then the economic upturn as it may be, according to data, will not take place. I know today that in the winter of 1997/98 we will have well over 300,000 unemployed. I'm not taking the scream for granted, but I'm asking you to act so that this vision doesn't come true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e7005	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Novotny. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e7026	Mr President. High house! I would have hoped in itself that the educational leave of Mr Haider will contribute to a certain improvement in the economic debate. Mr Prinzhorn has unfortunately disappointed me in this respect, although I am sure he could, but perhaps he was not allowed to. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Should this be funny, Mr. Colleague?]] In any case, I am an optimist, and I have also tried very hard to find some arguments under this rage of polemics. And since I believe that a rational exchange of arguments should take place in a particular economic debate, I will try to address Mr Prinzhorn's arguments as far as I can find them. [[Abg. Haigermoser: We hear!]] I'm glad you're excited to listen to me here. [[Abg. Haigermoser: That's why we're here!]] Very good. That's why you're here. That's right. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Among other things!]] First point of Mr Prinzhorn: He meant that Austria had fallen back internationally. However, it has not stated what it refers to here and what criteria this is defined. In fact, there have been some obscene statistics in recent times that show everything possible. I would rather rely here on the most recent OECD data – I give my source – which has just come out and compares per capita income. This is stated in US dollars and refers to the year 1995. We have a per capita income of 28 997 dollars in Austria. Thus we are higher than Australia, higher than Belgium, higher than Canada, higher than Finland, higher than France. The per capita income of Austria is just below that of Germany and, of course, higher than that of a number of developing countries and higher than that of most OECD industrialized countries. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gaugg.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! These are the facts. And the fact that Austria is one of the richest countries in the world today, you cannot deny it because it demonstrates the statistics, the international statistics. This is a fact that is not a coincidence, but the result of a successful economic policy. Otherwise, it would not have been helpful. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Second point – a non-important argument –: Mr Prinzhorn said that the crucial question is always cost developments. He has mentioned the cost of capital, the energy costs and the telecommunications costs, which are always an economic obstacle. I would like to try here again to deal with it in concrete terms. I would like to forward – this also applies to colleagues Peter –: I have great respect for every entrepreneurial activity, and I also have great respect for everyone who is willing to take personal risks, and I know that you are doing so. Finally, I also respect your personal actions. But if I see this now from the economic policy side, I must say that it is simply dangerous and too narrow to reduce questions of location conditions only to the cost side. There is still a lot of other areas, as there are also questions of structural policy, technology policy and so on. Let's look at the cost side – I'm looking at your arguments because I want to try to create a little different style of an economic debate in this house today – let's look at the interest rates. I have here – I always mention my sources – the last statistical monthly notes of the Austrian National Bank, which say that the long-term interest rate, i.e. what is relevant for investment development, is 5.79 percent in Austria. It is located below that of Belgium, which is about Germany, is clearly below that of Denmark, clearly below that of France and Great Britain. For example, the UK has a comparison value of 7.25 percent. – In other words, we have favourable financing conditions in Austria. We do not have these by chance, but because we have succeeded in speaking immediately, I am only allowed to complete the sentence, to reduce the rate of inflation in Austria so clearly that it also affects interest rates. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Trattner]] In other words, this is a success of economic policy and a success that is crucial and important for investment. Now you will say – I suppose if I anticipate your call –: This is debt financing, what about equity financing? I'm still coming to this area. Of course, capital financing is not independent of the question: How high are the interest rates we have to calculate? And so, of course, this has a positive effect on the Austrian economy as a whole, which cannot be disputed. Second area: Energy costs. There, too, is a fair view of the overall structure. We have higher energy costs – that is right – for certain industrial areas in Austria. However, we have significantly lower energy costs for the consumer sector in Austria than in most other countries. [[Abg. May. Main: No!]] I don't have the statistics right now, but that's definitely the case. Compare it with Germany, compare it to France, compare it to Italy! I do not know what you are comparing, but if you compare it with these countries, then you will see that we definitely have significantly lower costs. [[Abg. Haigermoser: What is that? Where's the paperwork?]] I invite you to look at the results in the UK, for example. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Where is this paper? Prove it!]] Of course, there has been a deregulation in the UK which has led to lower electricity prices in the industry, but at significantly higher electricity prices for consumers. These are the facts. We will make an energy organisation law in Austria by the end of this year. I only warn of slight promises by believing that you can make it right to all people, and say that you lower the prices for industry, even for consumers, and at the same time you will act environmentally politically and try to ensure that no nuclear current comes to Austria. So all of this will not go on at the same time, there will be certain priorities, and to them one must confess. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, I have only a limited time available, and I think there are still colleagues who want to show other things. I have to admit, Mr Prinzhorn's speech has missed the presentation of alternatives. As he was really very reticent, I would say that he referred only to the FPÖ tax plans, which basically consist of saying that the tax should be reduced. That sounds very nice, of course, only I can tell you the following: In the last paper you asked for the tax rate to be reduced directly to 40 percent. This means a tax failure of about 75 billion schilling. In view of this, it would be quite good to show how one wants to finance it, whether one wants to reduce, to the extent that the expenditure of the State – that is, of course also investment expenditure – and thus actually wants to set in motion a downward trend in the economy. So it's not that easy, but maybe we can talk about this next time. [[Abg. Haigermoser: We're still doing that today!]] I would be very pleased if you were a little more concrete than your first speaker. [[Abg. Haigermoser: This is Trattner!]] All in all, it is to be said that in the economic report we have received today, we see a very clear and successful concept for Austrian economic policy. We will accept this concept, a motion for a resolution will be tabled by the two coalition parties to show the areas in which Parliament's priorities are to be set for the next time. I believe that we are on the way to making a reasonable, successful economic policy, an economic policy – that is very important, and that has been said by both ministers today – which also takes into account the social component. If some people here regard the USA as the "blessed country" in terms of the economy, I must say very clearly: It must be determined objectively: The United States has achieved significant growth in recent years, but they have reached a price that we are not willing to pay, namely for the price of an ever-greater separation of incomes. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn.]] Look, my colleague, I am one who likes to argue with facts. I have another OECD study which relates to the years 1980 to 1992. In the United States, real income has fallen by 1.2 percent for the lowest 10 percent of income – which is average annual rates of change. In Austria it rose by about 0.9 percent. That means it's also about asking: Who benefits growth? Our mission is – and we see economic policy – that economic growth should benefit not only the highest third of a society, but economic growth should benefit everyone in a society. That is what we are fighting for, and with it we have had successes in the past, for which we must not be ashamed in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is our job to continue to work on this, to achieve economic progress, but to make progress that benefits everyone. That's our policy!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e7210	The next speaker is Dr. Van der Bellen. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e7232	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! In contrast to Mr Novotny, I will not address the speeches of my colleagues from the plenary, but I would like to focus on the two ministers and, in turn, on the Minister for Finance. I would like to suggest that, of course, reports like this can never be quite fair. It is said a lot of right and important, and of course one rather takes a position on the points in which one considers different, but in the meantime I may be able to say something where I am of the same opinion with you. Mr Finanzminister! First of all, to your EU position. I fully agree with you that there is a certain movement – I say carefully – at EU level on the question of employment. We will then see in Luxembourg whether or not something is going on here. In view of what you have said about tax harmonisation or at least your written statement, namely that Austria has already made a decisive move – this is a literal quote – I would like to remind you of the following: I agree with you that tax harmonisation is very important and essential at least in some areas, capital income tax, corporate tax, but without amending the principle of unanimity in the Council of Ministers there will be nothing going on in the foreseeable future. The conference in Amsterdam was also a fiasco in this relationship, as in many other relations. There's absolutely nothing going on here. Secondly, the budget: You say there won't be a third savings package. In a sense, I am right, because I have not referred to the previous packages as savings packages, but there will be a package which, I believe, has been made clear in particular by Mr Edlinger's statements in the last two months. Only keyword-like: Today, there is already a barrier to discretionary expenditure, there will be increases in fees, changes in building savings, the free amounts will be resold, there will be higher income tax prepayments. – short-term measures which are not effective in the longer term, but which can calm down in 1998/99. There will continue to be significant shifts from labour market promotion to pension insurance – and what else do I know? It was not us, but from the field of the Ministry of Finance – in any case, from the darkest circle of the Ministry of Finance – these statements came in recent weeks, which probably justify the statement that there will be a small package, not a savings package, just as the packages of the past were savings packages, but at least in terms of expenditure, but much more in terms of revenue. Today we do not have a budget debate, so perhaps only one thing: In your written text and also in your speech, the statement that Austria's debt is to be stabilised or that it is an essential task to reduce debt. He's supposed to go back sustainable. This cannot be right, because that would mean that we will achieve budget surpluses in the coming years, and even your ambitious budget programme will not be set aside. It can be expected that the debt ratio will be stabilised, i.e. the debt as a percentage of GDP. Another thing, because it will still be here in the house later in the afternoon: Mr Edlinger! They have said that strategic ownership in certain key areas is an important economic policy. I totally agree with you. The Greens, for example, have always been in favour of refraining from further privatisation in the E-Economics as long as the decision to re-regulation in this area is not taken, and this will take some time. But you mention not only the e-business, but also the banks, and in banking I miss any concept in this relationship. Today will be afternoon You – not us, but you – are adopting a law on the delivery of the bank-austria shares which are currently held by the post-holding. I already know that you do this against better knowledge and that you have no joy with it, but the fact is, it happens. The main theme: They have rightly, of course, liked us Greens well - once again, after a long time, focused on the topic of full employment. It's a good thing to say. They have said that this is not an utopia, but actually a concrete goal to achieve it. In view of this, it is more difficult to bring the facts into line with this statement. Of course, it is true that Austria is still below the EU average. Austria will continue to be below the EU average. Only two effects have so far been particularly significant for unemployment in Austria to be lower than in the EU. One is massive early retirement, and the other is the increase in employment in the public sector. Both are now at budgetary limits. I don't need to tell you, you all know that. Only if you were to include early pensions properly in the unemployment rate would we already have de facto a 3 to 4 percent higher unemployment rate. We would still be below the EU average, but not much. Employment in the public sector: We are not bad enough about the EU average, but not good enough. Of the additional 600 000 employees from 1970 onwards, about 250 000 are employed in the private sector and 350 000 in the public sector. I mean, as far as comparison with the EU is concerned, this is not so bad, because in this period, as a whole, new places in the private sector were not created at all and were all only in the public sector. In this respect, Austria is still doing well, but that is past. No one knows better than the Minister of Finance that these two possibilities to relieve the labour market, i.e. early pensions and employment in the public sector, have simply and simply come across a budgetary line. There will also be no relief from the economic situation. The growth rate quoted here today, between one and a half percent and two and a half percent, will not, of course, be sufficient to stabilise employment. Today I have the labour market data of the Social Ministry with – last version of the end of June. In fact, apart from a few exceptions, it is everywhere that the labour market situation is getting worse. The number of identified unemployed has increased by 2.7 percent compared to the previous year, while the length of stay in unemployment is five days higher than in the previous year. These are "only" five days, but the trend is clear, long-term unemployment is increasing, thus reducing the chance of integrating these people into the labour market. At least there is a light view in it: For younger people, that is, people between the ages of 19 and 29, unemployment has fallen slightly. For this, it has increased by 30 percent for the over 55 years. In other words: Whether we want to do this or not, at the age-old end of the labour market, there is something that we have to finance in a budget way or so, there is nothing else left to us, whether this is about unemployment support or about early pensions. This is not correctable in the short term. Very worrying – worrying because some measures have already been taken that do not seem to take place so far – is the development in the teaching sector. The number of jobseekers continues to rise and the number of apprenticeships available falls. There is probably another particular "fit" problem that those looking for certain places do not find them. The gap between jobseekers and jobseekers is growing – despite the measures we have already decided here, despite the much-contested apprenticeship offensives. If the head of the AMS is right, then it could be that in September we had no place with the 12 000 job seekers, that is the worst case, in his opinion it would be 4,000. Somewhere in between, the likely area lies, but it appears that it will be more likely that the gap will be larger than in September 1996 with 6 000 missing places at that time. Not to mention the situation in the individual Länder, which is very different, for example relatively favourable in Styria, but very unfavorable in Tyrol, Vorarlberg and Salzburg. Federal Minister! In other words: In order to achieve full employment, we must quickly consider much more than what you have indicated today. Nor would an improvement in the economic situation affect the situation. According to the last estimates of the IHS, only one out of five unemployed would be reintegrated into the labour market even if the economy was improved. Four out of five would not find a job even in the event of an economic upturn. What do we need and could we do in this area? . I miss a clear set of priorities, including in the budget, in favour of future investment, in order to say it plausibly. That is, priority for educational expenditure, from folk school to universities. Minister Farnleitner! In the written text further in the back there is the heading "future areas", and there is called chronologically – perhaps not that way, but it is so – in the first place: Investment in construction and road construction. This must be an editorial accident. [[Federal Minister Dr. Farnleitner: Next page!]] I do not agree that you call this the future areas of the Austrian economy. What is missing is a greater pace in environmental tax reform. Everyone has been saying for years that additional labour costs have to be reduced. All know that it is not easy to reduce additional labour costs, but that, as a rule, a fiscal replacement must be created. The year 2000 is now considered to be the target size. We could have done this a long time ago. Mr Finanzminister! If full employment is really your goal, how can you then allow – at least this is constantly collaborating in the newspapers – that billions – 5 billions, if I are not mistaken, if not more – of the AMS, that is, from the labour market policy, to pension insurance are still being converted into pension insurance? In particular, respect for the protection of pensions, but this cannot be a goal, this cannot be the focus of future policy, that we are, so to speak, reducing the investment that actually affects the future in favour of current consumption! To Mr Farnleitner. Minister Farnleitner! They have already tried a lot to correct the problematic situation of Austria in the re-establishment of companies. I don't think that's enough you've done so far. Being the last place in the EU in the case of new start-ups is already a phenomenon. There must already be a lot of things to get together in order for such a thing to happen. At least after a newspaper report from the beginning of this year, only Norway was behind us regarding the number of new companies. This seems to me to be the main problem, that Austria has developed a very good machinery in the past, which is now increasingly less effective in ensuring passive jobs; but what the dynamics in the USA – without prejudice to all the reservations that one can have – is precisely the new creations of companies, the new creations of companies and also new jobs in old companies, but above all the new creations of companies. Minister! You have tried something here, I do not want to dispute this, for example in the context of the so-called liberalisation of the trade regulations. But I already emphasize, so-called. If you want to read an evil article on this, look at the last "Industriemagazin". This is not a green leaf or something similar, even not close to FPÖ, I think. In the "Österreichische Industriemagazin" of July/August 1997, there is an editorial article with the title "Kammer nicht machen". This is a cynical comment on the failure of the last trade order. "Dammen's dressers are allowed, for example, since 1. July next to feminine fashion also produce men's shirts, even laundry goods... Similarly, gardeners are allowed to sell not only potted plants but also bouquets on a completely legal basis." I mean, that's okay, but that's not the liberalisation of the trade order that we have hoped for, but it's still so that we have opened the borders – keyword globalisation, internationalization, EU accession, east opening and all that, as a real deal has broken into Austria, unexpected and expected – so we have opened the borders outside, but there are still countless barriers to entry to the market for hopeful young people who want to make themselves independent and who come across the borders of the trade order, but not only these but, of course, also the limits of the capital market. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: These are the orders of reforms!]] Minister Farnleitner! These two funds, which you mentioned, in terms of venture capital each with 500 million – I think it was – are all right, but it won't be enough. I informed myself about American venture capital funds and so-called venture capitalists. This is about making more than 500 million or 1 billion available – now apart from the sizes – but it is a very own culture that does not exist in Austria, this venture-capitalism. So have a lot of fun! What you're planning here isn't going to be enough. There's much more to do. There are at least three areas that were "conspicuously abducted" in these speeches, as the English would say, so have been noticed by silence. One has already mentioned Mr Peter, I think. No word on the current account? No more problem? Just because the euro is coming? – Hopefully he's coming, but the problem doesn't disappear. Secondly, It may be, Minister Edlinger, that we have the best pension system in the world, we certainly have the most expensive. I am opposed to discussing this in the context of a budget issue, which is a long-term matter, and the other is a rather short-term matter. But in the context of an economic debate, this issue, which will play a huge role over the next 20 years, is perhaps worth more than just the statement: That's the best system, and that's what we've got to get! To Mr Farnleitner: I very much regret that you have not used an important source of economic location issues for me, for questions about the location of Austria, but at least have not dealt with them. There is a thick book, published by the Ministry of Economic Affairs, on the questions of the location of Austria. That's, I think, appeared last year. In this thick book, which I like very well and was published by one of your section heads – it is no coincidence that I like it – much is the talk of eco-tax reforms and the reduction of additional wage costs or their financing through eco-tax reforms. There is quite a lot of talk about the fact that environmental protection must also be interpreted as a positive condition of the site, not only can it be interpreted. There is a lot of talk about the long-term importance of sustainable development, i.e. a sustainable economy, and of course also about the job significance of eco-industries. And it was no one other than the Ministry of Economic Affairs who ordered a large opinion on these questions at the Wifo a year and a half ago, and this has been done for a long time. All these intersections between ecology and economy have given remarkable traces in the speech, which I very much regret. In conclusion: Of course, there are many useful, right, important things in both speeches, which is no question. But on key points such as pension insurance, but above all labour market development, the principle is hope. And I'm expecting a little more! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e7294	Mr Schwarzenberger has now spoken. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e7316	Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank you for your support. Professor As a member of the opposition of our Federal Government, Van der Bellen has issued a relatively good witness. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Two!]] For these reasons, his concerns must also be taken seriously. Unemployment is also our greatest concern, and everyone who wants to work and has no work is a single gift. That is why we all have to help shape the framework conditions in such a way as to create as much work as possible in Austria as possible. It is not possible to create work with paragraphs, but to create work, in turn, only businesses that see a chance under the established framework conditions. In addition, agriculture is also in a very difficult transition phase. As a result of the WTO agreement, there are completely changed framework conditions, and as a result of the accession of the EU, there is also a European competition in agriculture. We currently have particularly poor market conditions in the cattle sector. That is, the Austrian farmers need support from Austrian consumers. We farmers are willing to take on higher environmental standards, to adopt higher animal welfare standards, but that is to say, we cannot compete with comparable European prices or even with lower prices in the long run. In Austria, about 10 percent of all farmers already operate organically, and we offer much more organic products than the market can absorb. I therefore call on consumers to buy more and more organic products. One can also be a patriot in a single market and resort to Austrian products. This also creates Austrian jobs. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Austria is a very beautiful country. The holiday time is at the doorstep. Many guests from other countries are still coming to Austria, despite declining numbers of nights in the summer. We must note, however, that Austrians are increasingly going abroad to spend their vacation there. It is also possible to create jobs by spending the holiday money in Austria. I would like to support a proposal by Mr Farnleitner, who I very much liked, which concerns biomass. In this area, one should focus more actively on a priority project, so that electricity generation from biomass is also tried. There is an increase in biomass and wood in the forest of about 30 million feet and a use of 19 million solid meters. That is, there are large reserves of more than one third of the total increase. If one could find – roughly overrun – that 1 million solid metres of additional use will ensure about 5,000 jobs in further processing – of course not only in energy production but also in wood processing – then the reserves that would create 40 000 to 50 000 jobs in this area would be. In agriculture, despite a difficult situation, there is a sharp increase in investment. In 1996, we had a 30 percent greater investment volume than in 1994, which means that, according to the economic research institute's calculations, farmers pay more in advance than their own VAT on their products due to the package for investments of more than 1 billion schilling. In this respect, the Europe Agreement stated that this pre-tax burden should also be examined after two years. It would really be high time! I do not think that we can wait until a tax reform, otherwise all those farmers who invest more strongly are forced to change back to the rule taxation in order to recover the VAT paid too much. – Since the lamp is already lit here, I would like to conclude immediately. Our aim must remain to create as much prosperity and work as possible for all and to secure social security in the long term. This will only be possible if a good economic policy is pursued in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e7359	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Trattner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e7381	Mr President. Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! I do not want to deal with the statements made by my previous speakers, but above all with the report by Mr Finanzminister. I begin with a quote on your part, in connection with Western European integration. To do this, you say: According to a Wifo study, there is a chance of more growth and more jobs. – Mr Finanzminister! But you have to read this Wifo study, because it says: These opportunities exist only when structural reforms occur. – This is our criticism of you and the Federal Government as a whole. We liberals wanted to discuss so-called homework four years ago, in the course of the debate on accession to the European Union. We have presented these, and we have said what reform measures are absolutely necessary. These homeworks have not been completed and therefore the chance of higher economic growth or the chance of more employment has not been preserved. In this respect, however, criticism cannot be directed to the opposition parties, for these tasks must be done by the government parties – and in this respect you have slept for at least four years. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Finanzminister! On page 5 of your written document, you can assume "strategic property" in the Austrian energy industry or in the Austrian banking industry. Mr Finanzminister, where were you half a year ago, when you, as a negotiator – at the time still the municipality of Vienna – completely disregarded strategic ownership and Austrian interests in connection with Bank Austria? Otherwise, you would not have been able to give WestLB a pre-purchasing right, a bank that holds only 10 percent of Bank Austria, to more than 50 percent at the time! Yes, please, where is there an attention to Austrian interests?- Oh, my God! Mr Finanzminister! You can't act like that and write something else here in a paper! These are two different pairs of shoes, and so you can't really confront the High House! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Finanzminister! In your paper, you also look at the opportunities for growth in the Austrian economy and say that Austria is around the European average. However, you know very well that in 1996 Austria had a real growth of 1 percent, the EU average was 1.6% and OECD average was 2.3 percent. So we were far away. According to one study, Austria had the chance in 1997 to achieve a real growth of between 1.4 and 1.5 percent, and this study states that these assumptions are primarily based on a so-called export offensive, an export offensive which will, however, focus primarily on the Eastern European countries, where we make the funding available and it is very uncertain for us whether we ever get this money back. This is what the "export offensive" of the Austrian Federal Government looks like! Imports will decrease by nature, not least because of the fact that, as a result of the structural adjustment law or the tax package, the income of Austrians has fallen to such an extent or will decrease even more, so that there will no longer be demand for long-term consumer goods. This is also stated in this study. Mr Finanzminister! You should read this study more carefully and not always just take out any partial or word bits and write them into your report. This study also states that general budgetary reorganisation is only to be achieved through structural adjustment. But we do not see anything of a structural adjustment! You will still feel how this structural adjustment and this structural adjustment law will be reflected in your 1998/99 budget. As a result, the loss advances will lead to reduced tax revenue, and you will also be confronted with the fact that the 1996 balance sheet of the then Minister of Finance and current Federal Chancellor's climate is likely to be incorrect, because many of the expenditure that should have been incurred in 1996 will not be realized until 1997. With this situation you will see yourself face-to-face! Mr Finanzminister! This study also states that in the construction industry there will be a net decline in the order of 0.7 percent. And precisely in this phase, where construction performance falls by 0.7 percent, you start a discussion about the reduction of construction savings. This makes you insecure again: with the construction savers, with the entrepreneurs, with the house-keepers. What you always blame the opposition, in fact, do you from the government! That's the big mistake! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It has not been long since we heard here in the House the budget speech of the then Minister of Finance Climate, in which he has stated that: The consolidation package provides for employment-related measures. The increase in housing development and the increase in the maximum amount of construction savings release additional construction investments of about 2.25 billion schilling. A year ago, the then Minister of Finance said: We need to favor the construction savers! – You, Minister of Finance Edlinger, come here and say: No, we'll take this away from the savers again! That's your optimism you're supposed to spread? That is why we make the following request for freedom of movement: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would also ask colleagues from the government groups to support this request. Mr Finanzminister! You also address the common monetary policy in your report by saying: Convergence criteria must be met, it should be a hard euro. You know what tricks are being worked on with? There are countries that sell gold, and a country like Germany wants to upgrade the gold reserves. Demand sales are made, disbursements are taking place, but basically nothing changes in the budgetary situation in Austria at all. It doesn't change at all! And you, Mr. Finanzminister, already have the biggest problems for the budget again and now come with "best" ideas yourself. One of these ideas is that the increased tax prepayments are simply not net, but these 10 billion shillings of more revenue want to be included in the 1997 budget, and this will only be relevant to you in 1998. This is just a budget trick, it has nothing to do with a hard schilling! Mr Finanzminister! Their predecessor, the current German Chancellor climate, has made the following statement, which is to be made in March 1996: These structural adjustment laws serve a goal, including the credibility of politics and strong schilling. – Look I would also like to ask you for the budget speeches of your predecessor before you report here in the House, which are incomplete and partly incorrect!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e7495	The motion for a resolution, by Mr Magistrate, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Trattner is sufficiently supported for the purposes of the Rules of Procedure and is included in the negotiations. The next speaker was Mr Heindl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e7519	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to make a motion for a resolution, namely Mr Dr Novotny, Mr Feurstein, Mr Heindl, Mr Schwarzenberger, Mr Nürnberger, Mr Ingrid Tichy-Schreder, Mr Parnigoni and Mr Comrades, on the security of Austria's economic location and on employment policy initiatives. I will deal with this motion for a resolution even more closely in the course of my speech. If we look at the situation of our economy, our market, especially the labour market, I do not think we should do that separately from international development, especially those in the EU. In these considerations, we should not evaluate the current data isolated from longer-term trends. As explained in the report of the Economic Institutes, international development in 1996 was mainly marked by significant growth differences, both regionally and country-specifically. While economic growth has been strong worldwide, Europe, and especially the EU – and again Western European countries – have remained behind growth expectations. On average, growth rates in the EU fell by almost one percentage point to 1.6%. Austrian development, which is not pleasing, must be said, can and must therefore only be seen in connection with this global development. What were the main causes of this development? – Without a doubt, the main factor was the weak demand from some of our most important trading partners, especially in Germany, Italy and Switzerland. The moderate economic upturn to be observed in the last months of the previous year and in the first months of this year and also expressed in the economic report, especially in the industrial economy, is expected to improve. The slow economic recovery in Europe continues and thus also the demand for Austrian products. The domestic industrial economy has continued to revive in the first months of this year and shows an upward trend. Many companies are markedly improving the order situation, and some are already responding to the employment side. The expansion of production benefits greatly from the growth of foreign markets and, as the Wifo calls it, from the "significant increase in their price-determined competitiveness through the exchange rate development of schilling". The industry is directly benefiting from higher export demand, whose economic sentiments and investment prospects have been most strongly strengthened. Disfavorable – I do not think, Mr Peter, to deal with this issue – is the development of the current account in the first quarter of this year. This is – not a question – with a deficit of just over 8 billion schilling not a small thing. A surplus in the same order had been achieved in 1996. This marked deterioration is primarily due to two apparent main causes, on the one hand to the trade in goods, minus 10 billion schilling, and on the other hand to the development of the travel balance. This is clearly recognizable. Nevertheless, I do not see a dramatic economic situation in this development when considering the essential causes, and I have considered them closely. It has, in fact, been clear in recent times, 1996, even though it was even better, that the meeting of a number of factors, which are in no way signs of an economic weakness, was crucial. This concerns travel, and I say: If you don't have much money at your disposal, people wouldn't be able to travel – no matter how unpleasant that is, I'll give you that right – and this concerns EU accession and exchange rate development. Nevertheless – and I agree with you – we need to pay greater attention to the current account, signaling a permanently deficient current account structural weaknesses. It is beyond discussion that a longer-term development of this kind cannot bring positive developments. Where do I see further needs for action? – We need to significantly improve the economic environment for the competitiveness of our businesses, for new business start-ups. An important step in this direction, despite all criticism, Mr Peter, was the trade regulation – in this context one cannot match one another – and in particular the very business-friendly investment law. I have so far – thank God! – nobody who would have criticized it. Furthermore, I feel that improving the skills of the labour market – as I agree with Mr Van der Bellen – is particularly important to me until the quality of Austrian products is increased. It seems to me to be particularly important that export potentials in the area of services, where there is still a considerable need for rethinking. The export economy has been mentioned several times today. Ladies and gentlemen! Our export economy is – you can say that quietly – a reflection of the development of the success balance of our economy. Since 1970 exports have quadrupled in real terms and already reach a volume of more than 610 billion schilling this year. Payments for goods increased sharply in April 1997. The export revenues were therefore more than twice as high as the import payments at 23 percent. Nevertheless, measures to further increase are essential. The continuing deficits in the trade balance can be less and less compensated due to the declining revenue from tourism. I am a realist, and I therefore no longer believe that we can achieve developments like ten years ago, so the trade deficit has to be otherwise balanced. Austria's export ratio, with its approximately 25 percent of gross domestic product, is lower in goods exports than those of comparable European economies. I am thinking in this context of Finland, Sweden or the Benelux countries, all of which have an export rate of around 30 percent. I therefore believe that this export offensive is so important to the Federal Government. We must succeed – and only in this way can we achieve improvements in both performance balance and employment, especially in the qualitative field of employment – to increase the export rate by a few percentage points. One percent more brings more to a few thousand employees – apart from the fact that the value added in this area is thus higher. Research and development policy must be carried out in conjunction with an export offensive, and I have also mentioned this point in my motion for a resolution. This part of the motion for a resolution has already been decided in Rust and will hopefully be implemented more quickly. Ladies and gentlemen! The main reason for Austria's economic success lies in its skilled and motivated labour force. In order to maintain the high level of training of our workers, our education system needs to be even more focused on labour market demand. This means that we must bring our research and development rate to the OECD section, through increased mediation of economic content – including for teachers – which means internationalisation of education, further increase in the attractiveness of apprenticeship training, further expansion of the high school network, reduction of study duration at universities, and upgrading adult education. Knowledge is crucial for the production and location factor in the future. There is no doubt that reforms in the field of training have a priority character. Finally, however, it will remain a question of mentality whether the prosperity of the last decades can be maintained in Austria. Every individual – especially young people – needs to be aware that flexibility and speed are more needed in our time than ever. What Austria can and must offer in international competition is quality – quality products, quality services – and the quick and targeted response to the corresponding demand. That is why we are also putting forward our motion for a resolution calling on the government to implement an export offensive, to increase technology and research support, and to give employment policy, particularly in connection with the employment of young people, absolute priority. Further: Initiatives to combat undeclared work, tourism activity, and the Minister of Economic Affairs is – I believe this is very important – invited, as we have already called for in a resolution in connection with the trade regulation, to develop a uniform system law. In this sense, we are convinced that the economic report is an important basis for discussion for these further measures.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e7598	Mr Heindl has tabled a motion for a resolution which has also been submitted in writing and which has been supported in accordance with business rules. I have in the sense of § 53 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure shall cause the reproduction and distribution of this text. The application will also be accompanied by the Stenographical Protocol. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e7661	Mrs Gredler has now spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e7682	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! In April there was the headline in the "Kurier": "Austria is paralysing in the competition." – Such headlines are actually very unpleasant. In this article, the study of the Swiss Institute for Management Development was cited, according to which the competitiveness of Austria for 1990 to 1995 had put us in place 11th place. In 1995/96 we were already in the 16th place, and now, 1996 to 1997, we have dropped to 19th place of competitiveness. If you use only OECD countries, you get 9, 12 and now 15. So, obviously, our competitiveness is falling. Our prospects are therefore not rosy, but very worrying. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] Economic researchers and economic operators agree that this is not only due to the low economic growth but also to the rising cost of additional wages. As you know, Austria is experiencing an increase in the area of additional labour costs and also in the field of high infrastructure costs – water costs, telephone costs and so on. The causes of low economic growth are also indicated by the paralysing bureaucracy. Paralysing bureaucracy – what would be useful about it? – It would be useful to put deregulation in the foreground; a deregulation which the European Commission also wants in its 1997 report on the economic situation. I'll come back to that later. It is true that, as a key factor in falling competitiveness, we also have a stagnant to falling research rate. The IHS said that investment in research and training must be strengthened. If the technology billions were not to bring some improvements now, a reduction in the research rate in Austria would be the consequence. Only: That's not enough. We are currently at a research rate of 1.5 percent of GDP – and we will be talking about it later in the evening, so we are in the lower third of OECD nations. In order to improve the situation, we need not only to increase this quota, but also to increase the efficiency of academic research systems. There we are in the middle of comparable nations. So there is still much to be done in this relationship. With regard to deregulation: We had to change the trade order, as the government had obviously also become aware that it has led to immutability and the introduction of various professions. That is why it was necessary to carry out a certain discharge. However, a discharge is not complete, but only partial. We are very happy about this partial success, but that is not enough. The question arises which regulations we need at all. I do not understand why you have not committed yourself to the considerations of Helmut Peter, the regulatory requirement for liability insurance, but not for other areas. The EU says: The burden of overregulations is still hindering the functioning of the internal market. What to do? . Not only should there be a change at European level, but the Commission is expressly saying that these anti-locks must be removed at national level. At the end of June 1997, 193,796 people were reported unemployed. In the same period of last year there were 188 750 people. This means that we also have an increase in this area. If we look at what other countries are doing in order to maintain their competitiveness, we note that countries like Finland, the Netherlands and the USA have increased R & D expenditure and have already worked towards the top-level group of countries in terms of competitiveness. Finland was in place 14, Austria in 9th place in 1994. In 1995, Finland was in 11th place; Austria had already slipped to 12th place. From 1996 to 1997, Finland was in second place and Austria was in second place. I ask you: Why do we not do what it would be necessary, namely to adapt to the general trend and with all the strength to try to introduce new technologies at all levels in Austria? – This is not only the problem of apprentices, which has just been highlighted and the Van der Bellen has moved to express concern – the Greens are not here right now – but there are other areas that would be important. I believe that the research billions that we are going to debate this evening are not an adequate approach, but only a drop on the hot stone. Federal Minister! I would like you to assess other things within Austria in the future. With average real GDP growth per capita and year of 2.7 and 2.1 per cent, Lower Austria and the Burgenland – in front of the Styria and Upper Austria – are expected to have the highest growth dynamics. For Vienna a real growth rate of 1.2 percent per year is expected. And then the problem begins: West Austria and Carinthia will remain in tourism due to the crisis. For the federal states of Salzburg, Tirol and Vorarlberg a growth rate of only 0.6 percent is forecast, for Carinthia, one of 0.5 percent. Federal Minister! This is also a question of labour costs linked to this sector. This is not only a question of tourism, but also one of the construction industry, the construction industry and the subcontractors. There is a big difference within Austria. I would be interested in what specific measures will be taken – and not that some report is ready, in which pious wishes will be expressed for tourism and the construction industry.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e7755	Mrs Tichy-Schreder is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e7776	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Dr. Gredler! They have, of course, pointed out that Austria, unfortunately, has slid off in the international comparison. But if you compare with Finland, you must note that Finland has had a different starting point and that despite more favourable developments, the unemployment rate in Finland is still much higher than in Austria. Austria faces the same challenge as the entire European continent. I would like to talk about continental Europe because the economic, social and social development there has been different from the UK. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Then you can talk about the globe immediately after humanity has landed on Mars!]] Continental Europe, the Western industrialized countries have a conjucture problem in the context of the internationalisation of the economy. At the same time, there can be a redistribution between developing countries, the second world and the so-called industrialized countries. We have to face up to this redistribution. The consumer – and thus the economic entity that focuses on the economic operator – has clearly shown his interest in acquiring high-quality goods at very low prices. It is important to note that, even high-quality mass products can be produced very cheaply in other countries, such as Asia. In these countries a certain modest prosperity has been achieved as a result of mass production, and this development will continue in the future as the increasing settlement of production sites leads to increased economic upturn. In view of these conditions, it is necessary, in particular, to combat unemployment, to strengthen lifelong or life-long learning, which Mr Farnleitner and Mr Edlinger also spoke about. [[Abg. Haigermoser: This has already been done by our party observer! You haven't been interested in it yet!]] What's this about? – The unemployment of young people has fallen, and unemployment is now continuing in older people. It turns out that we need to rethink our education structure. It is about what the cost of training is used for. Today, in Austria, 90 percent of teaching expenditure is still in initial training and only 10 percent are in continuing training. A few years ago, vocational training began, and now the first graduates come to the labour market. I think this is the right way to involve creative young people in the economic process. They are important to better use the innovation potential of Austrian companies in the future. The Austrian economy should not put its light under the Scheme. Think back a few years: The Austrian automotive supplier industry has come from nowhere and has grown to a size almost overnight that the value of its exported products is as high as the value of the imported finished cars. That's it. Merit of the Austrian car supplier industry and its employees. I was able to see that the development in this area continues on the occasion of a visit to the Research Fund. The research department of Eybl has succeeded in developing completely new car parts with the support of the Research Fund; body parts are manufactured in conjunction with carpet elements. This innovation will speed up car generation and make the car more cost-effective. It also shows that highly qualified and highly trained employees in the engineering sector work in the Austrian firms. We should use this for the future and continue to work in this direction. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP as well as by Mr Nürnberger and Mr Ing. Tychtl.]] Another example from the engineering sector concerns developments in environmental protection. During a visit to Barcelona, I noticed that there was an example – especially for waste management and waste prevention – of the environmental system developed by the city of Vienna together with the environmental industry. The recent evidence shows that engineering services from Austria and Austrian know-how open up good future opportunities for Austrian companies. My third example of good engineering concerns air navigation technology. There, an Austrian company is at the forefront of Europe, and its goal is to become the world's leader. We therefore have opportunities and opportunities to keep and create jobs in the future, if we coordinate better in the fields of research and development. That is the intention of the Federal Government. Another important economic policy measure is the sub-sector provided for in the trade regulation. They will be effective in the autumn due to a regulation by the Federal Minister and will provide young people with the opportunity to make themselves independent by setting up new businesses. Mr Peter! We need to learn that there is no way to talk about entrepreneurs. Entrepreneurial thinking and action must be found in the mentality of the Austrians, and it must therefore be given a corresponding priority in schools. We must work towards increasing the share of entrepreneurship in Austria and bringing it closer to the European level.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e7833	Mr Haigermoser is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Please, honourable Member. [[Abg. Haigermoser is busy with his documents.]] – Mr Haigermoser has been spoken. Please, honourable Member. [[Abg. Ing. Tychtl: He's asleep!]] [[Further calls.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: (on the way to the speaker's desk) It takes a bit of time!]] – Voluntary time limit: 6 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e7893	Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Tichy-Schreder has just talked about Europe. More recently, she could also talk about the globe, since humanity has now landed on Mars. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! No one wants to paint black, but the honest view of things is a command of the hour. Therefore, it is interesting to take a sentence out of your lecture – not to tear him out of the context, but to question him. Minister for Economic Affairs! You said: The economic policy efforts of recent years have created a framework for Austrian companies to be called upon by companies and interest groups for decades. – End of the quote. Then they counted a lot. There is a lot to ask about this, and it is mainly about not letting you disappear under the cheese bell of the protected area, according to the motto: "What happens out there, that doesn't really interest us!" or "We push out the concerns and Requirement of entrepreneurs, the economy and workers!" The fact is, Mr Federal Minister, that you, as well as the Minister of Finance, have only done so on the verge of your commitment. As examples, I only mention bureaucracy and the high additional wage costs. What have you done to hold back these pressing concerns? - I remind you of the apprentices. I will not get tired of talking about this parade sin in the coalition: the municipal burden on apprentices' compensation. That was a fall of sin, and you are not willing to admit this mistake, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This means that we are talking about the statements made by the President of the Chamber of Commerce Leo Madethaner. He meant that he would be able to solve the apprenticeship problem by delegating the pay of vocational schooling for the apprentice to the labour market service. We will never and never agree to such an operation. Because this is a Call for more state, for more bureaucracy, for new funds. We know, however, that a schilling that we get paid over a fund costs three shillings in the administration, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Ing. Maderthaner: You talk like in the chamber!]] I am surprised that you made this proposal, Mr Maderthaner. [[Abg. Ing. Maderthaner: You didn't listen! That sounds like it's in the chamber!]] – Right, I said that in the chamber. I am speaking outside as well as here, which distinguishes me from you, Mr President Maderthaner. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I'd like to take the evidence. We say: Give the farms the money they need to meet their needs! This applies to tax policy and so on. We also say: Insure the apprentices with the guardians! This would bring reliefs and mean equality with students and students. Same right for everyone! – This proposal requires little red tape, little administrative burden, and it will not again be used by the state to solve a undoubtedly existing problem. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steibl.]] But you speak in two ways, depending on whether you speak here in the house or outside. There is the unknown Mr Reinhold Mitterlehner, Secretary General of the Economic Federation and Party Friend of Mr Farnleitner. His boss, Maderthaner, is sitting here. Mr Mitterlehner said in the latest issue of the "Economic Sheet": The economy is enough. Protests against the bureaucrats are due. More and more entrepreneurs are suffering from working even more for the state. They want to hit the state by returning official post unopened or dropping the scrollbars for hours. – So some kind of general strike threat, ladies and gentlemen! This economic representative is a voice tube of the same Madethaner, who today has sung a hymn of praise to the current states! One even goes so far as to complain against worker protection: "The board supports a lawsuit before the Supreme Courts"! Here in Parliament, Maderthaner agrees, but outside he sends entrepreneurs who have their own interests to the Supreme Court and says: We'll finance the lawyer so you can complain! Ladies and gentlemen! This is a double-duty policy, and we do not participate in it! – It can be added a lot more. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Blünegger.]] Federal Minister! I have to bring you down to the "news" of daily policy, under quotation marks. For these are the problems of the trader, the trader, about which the business information company Creditreform GesmbH says in an investigation: The profit situation is the Achilless of the middle class. In the still slender economy, the yield situation is poor. – I ask you, Minister of Finance, to read this. On the labour market situation it is said: Around two thirds of all employees are in wages and bread for medium-sized enterprises. But much hope for a positive development in the labour market does not come from the largest employer. – This is the message we hear. We don't want to paint black, but the health prayer is also a bad habit. Mr. Federal Minister! Put the truth on the table! How did Mr. Schüssel once say? – "Cassal crash is announced." The only fall that followed was that of the Lord John Ditz. Ladies and gentlemen! We also call for this collapse in labour market policy, apprenticeship policy, economic policy. You don't make him! You've only given grueling speeches today. I had expected more positive, because in the positive We want to make sense in this country. That is why I expected at least some solutions to the problems in the electricity market, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e7967	Deputies! Please put the final sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e7982	One quote: Open instead of failure/power market in Austria – fragmented, politicalized, overbureaucratised... But the Austrian electricity industry is overbureaucratised, over-occupied and very expensive. - Where's that? In a liberal broadcast? – No, but in the central organ of Mr. Madethaner, "The Entrepreneur". That's where it stands!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e8012	The final sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e8027	It is obvious that you are working with two truths, Mr Madethaner: with one inside and another you are writing to the entrepreneurs in the main book outside!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e8057	Mr Nürnberger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e8079	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! For us, achieving full employment in Austria is not a utopia, but a political goal – Mr. Edlinger has done this literally in his statement today. As a representative of the largest workers' union in this country – the metal trade union – I naturally support all efforts in this direction. At the same time, I promise workers and people without work to be very careful about how this full employment is to be achieved. When I make the calls and suggestions of the last weeks happen, I see many wrong ways to achieve more employment: Economic policy decisions without social partners, abolition of holidays, maximum flexibility of working time. Ladies and gentlemen! These are certainly the wrong recipes for a highly developed economic location and against unemployment. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Dr. Novotny.]] Let me take out another comment by Mr Edlinger, Minister of Finance. He literally said: It can not only be a matter of providing businesses with better working conditions, but also the people working in these establishments must have good living and working conditions. – These include, among other things, the question of flexibility. Mr Farnleitner has also referred to the social partners in connection with the question of flexibility, and I have to make some points. Federal Minister! They have literally said: The big ones judge it – they called BMW and Opel – and the little ones don't trust themselves. To this end, I can say that BMW and Opel – "the great ones" – do not need to judge it, nor have they directed it. There, everything has been done in agreement with the Works Council and the trade unions, because there are also advantages for workers. At BMW there is a general reduction in working time to 36 hours, but this will always be shamefully silent. Opel has similar advantages. I should like to remind you of the time before the law on working time has been passed – it is a good thing that Mr Maderthaner is present today. I remember that we have been negotiating for hours on how we come to an instrument with which we can bring about a trade union that does not wish to conclude a collective agreement on flexibilisation. I have never attached such importance to this problem because I cannot imagine a trade union in this country that will not conclude a collective agreement if there is a reasonable flexibility model. But we all made a big mistake with this, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. For hours, for days, we broke our heads over what means of pressure we create against a "evil" union that does not enter into a collective agreement. But one thing we really lack, and for that I will prove: We have no means of pressure against employers who do not want to enter into collective agreements. In the metal industry it was said again and again that the masters in the sparks did not have much idea of the big questions. However, all 85 innkeepers have signed the collective contract immediately after he was agreed, and they have been able to sign it since 1. Work flexibly on March. We know from feedback that both sides, employers and employees are satisfied with this. In the metal industry, eight trade unions form a collective treaty community whose cohesion is also useful. Seven of them have signed a flexibilization model, in which, of course, there are also advantages for workers such as time supplements, but there is just an eight trade unions that want to have justice everything at zero rate. He is not willing to sign this collective agreement and thus takes the seven others into hostagery. [[Abg. Ing. Maderthaner: For the seven we have to do it!]] But now we have no instrument, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. We could force the union to sign, for that there is a legislative procedure, but we have no instrument at all to force a trade union association to sign a collective agreement. He wouldn't forgive himself with that! [[Abg. Ing. Maderthaner: If we do it for the seven, the eighth will be added anyway!]] No, that doesn't make sense, we won't play that, dear President! First of all, someone has to explain to me why employers do not sign a collective contract, which – I agree – is proven to reduce wage and salary costs by about 1.5 percent and provides them with a wealth of measures. You don't have to do everything in the collective contract. It is as it has been repeatedly demanded: The two are supposed to mind, and they can do that, and anyone who doesn't want to do anything needs nothing to do either. He only needs to stay, to make an agreement with his works council. This association therefore loses nothing if it signs. But obviously something else is behind it. It is likely that you will get everything and everyone at a zero rate. But I say that again with all the clarity: In this respect, we have not left the employers unclear! We are ready to work flexibly because that is simply necessary. Mr President, Mr Maderthaner has used a nice expression: We should not put words, but deeds. Mr President! I'm emphasizing that. As a trade unionist, I urge you to commit acts that employers sign a negotiated collective agreement on flexibility. People outside want to be flexible in the interests of the location!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e8144	Mrs Schaffenrath is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e8165	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! In fact, these reports remind us of jubilant reports and also of the reports of last year. In the last year's reports, the word "woman" did not even appear, and this year's ministers seem to assume once again that men and women in the working world, in the economic Life is equal and special measures are not necessary for women in their disadvantaged situation. Mr Prinzhorn – I think it was Mr Prinzhorn – has already pointed out that the below-average unemployment figures do not at all correspond to reality. The high number of early pensioners – more than 200 000 – and, above all, 70 000 pensioners were not taken into account. It can be limited to the female form, because men still do not take advantage of karenz time due to lack of impulses. The reduction in working time will have a major impact on the labour market situation, and the return to working life will make women much more difficult. The unemployment statistics are already speaking a clear language: Women's unemployment rose by 10.3 percent over the same period of the previous year, while men's unemployment rates, of course, fell. In addition, 43 percent of women, but only 17 percent of men, are considered difficult to mediate. In addition, the length of residence of women in unemployment at 131 days is significantly longer than that of men with just 115 days. The thumping on the i is also: In contrast to European development, the female employment rate in Austria is below average – it is falling. With us it is only 61 per cent, and the European OECD average is still 75 per cent. The Minister of Finance has said in his report that every unemployed person is a unemployed person too much and there is no reason to be sick. He can only have spoken of men because the precarious situation of women in the working world is still being ignored. In the report of the Minister of Economic Affairs, there was further jubilation: low inflation rates, high price stability, low corporate taxes and so on. He did not address the fact that labour costs in Austria are disproportionately high and are also burdened by excessive bureaucracy. I would like to remind the coalition that it has adopted the Workers' Protection Act as a very drastic measure in this area. It was the President of the Tyrolean Industrial Association Thöni, who recently noted in the media that industrial labour costs are already over 50 percent and 16 percent lower in the EU section. In his report, the Minister referred very proudly to 700 new jobs for the first half of the year. I have to say that in Tyrol alone, 600 jobs are currently in acute danger – the insolvency rate is rising by 5.4% across Austria, while in Tyrol it is rising significantly higher, namely to about 34% – and there is a massive increase in the number of bankruptcy applications that still need to be rejected. It is clear to me, of course, that Tyrol has a significant share of it precisely because of its tourism situation. Your report also referred to the situation of tourism. In this House the situation is constantly beautified, and the tourism industry is consistently denied all those conditions which my colleague Peter has already called for many times from this point of view. Mr Farnleitner! You referred to the good level of training of Austrian skilled workers and called them a current competitive advantage, so I must ask you: How long? – The dual training system, one in and for itself good training system, is no longer successful. You write: The crisis-related developments in apprenticeships are currently insurmountable. I'll tell you: This development has been predictable for years, but those responsible have unfortunately closed their eyes and ears and endured the coming things inactively. Although new regulations have entered into force with the Vocational Training Act and the Child and Youth Employment Act, improvements cannot be expected, even the opposite is to be feared. Minister! I do not suppose that you have broken down your links to the Chamber of Commerce, which is why you should actually know that, for example, in Tyrol, the collection of bakers will greatly limit the training of apprentices and, in trade, thousands of training places are already at risk under the provisions of the Child and Youth Employment Act. Although you may still see clear evidence that there are strong efforts in Austria to strengthen lifelong learning, I tell you that life-long learning has not even taken part in the Austrian education system. I ask you: What measures are there, for example, in initial training? What measures are there to support lifelong learning as a bearing pillar in the education system? I do not think that it will be enough for you to be proud to refer to the educational institutions of the social partners as long as they do not cooperate with each other, not to network with each other and with other educational institutions, as well as with public schools, and not to adapt to regional needs. I think it is a waste of resources when investments by the Wi-Fis and Bfis, which are similar investments, are promulgated in millions if such conditions are already in place in the public system, in schools. Of course, there is also a lack of resources to finally put in place the necessary structural measures in the field of education. Unfortunately, in the final consequence, these funds are blocked by the trade unions in order to maintain their privileges, which is why we cannot carry out those reforms that would be necessary to find answers to the problems of rapid social change and technologicalization. On page 13 of his written report, the Minister of Finance, I would like to conclude by saying that we have the best pension system in the world. For me, there are a few questions in this context: What is so good about a pension system that knows different classes of workers who equip a group richly with privileges and benefits? What is so good about a pension scheme, which has been ineligible for years and which allows women in old age to be usually not, or insufficiently, assured that they are actually quite female, that the average pension of women is only half as high as that of men, that every eighth pensioner could not live from their pension, because she is under the minimum of existence, that 72 percent of women are women who are compensated for the fact that the repurchasing of retirement periods on the basis of the maximum basis of which women reach only a very low proportion of their pensioners is calculated, and that minor workers – including those who are largely women – are excluded from retirement insurance at all? If there's a little more time available, I could ask more questions. On page 11 of his written report, the Minister of Finance claims that the previous savings packages have been carefully balanced, where a reduction in expenditure is socially acceptable. To this end, I must say: Either his balance does not work properly, or he has forgotten that these savings packages have been one-sided and unbalanced to the detriment of women – keywords "pension after-sales", "carence time" and many more. If Mr Edlinger is serious about the fact that the objective of successful economic policy is to safeguard and further develop the prosperity and income of the citizens of a country and the successful safeguarding of employment, I must say, I very much hope that he has meant that 52% of the people who put the citizens inside. The measures so far have not shown anything in this direction, and I am sorry that the confidence in future measures is not very strong because of my previous experience.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e8250	Mr Spindelegger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e8272	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to limit myself to three comments on the reports on the economic situation and to begin with that area which is especially dear to me, namely youth employment. The Federal Minister has said today something that can all of us happy to vote, namely that, due to changed framework conditions, up to 3 500 new apprenticeships can be expected in addition this year. That's a proud number, and that's great! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schaffenrath.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Everything solved! No problem!]] Mr Haigermoser has started his speech with a sentence which, I believe, really cannot be exceeded. Mr Haigermoser! You said at the beginning, nobody wants to paint black. I fully agree with you on this point. [[Abg. Haigermoser: You should get rid of the party glasses, Mr. Colleague!]] However, the rest of your speech was the exact opposite, Mr Haigermoser. In your speech, you have not made a single proposal on how to actually deal with these problems. And that's not enough. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I would like to take a different approach and get a little closer to this problem by making a proposal. [[Abg. Haigermoser: incense boiler!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Although this year the problem of apprentices with a greater number of apprenticeships can be solved a little, we must not overlook another problem – you have already mentioned this, Mr. Federal Minister: Of course, the school leavers who have completed the AHS, the BHS, will have great problems finding a job on the labour market this year too. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Leave the black paint!]] I therefore believe that we need to consider what we can do to help at least this year – if we really can expect a stronger economy next year. Our proposal is to develop a system that we call "Startjobs for school leavers". Ladies and gentlemen! What do we mean by that? . We mean that companies that have a very different order situation over the year may not be willing to hire someone permanently, but very probably would like to welcome someone for a few months to deal with job peaks. An association, financed by the AMS, through the countries, through the federal government, could well be able to provide such young school leavers with a kind of training program for one year. [[Abg. Haigermoser: A fund would have to be founded!]] We will try this in Lower Austria. A association has already been established – he is called "Job Up" – by which we will try to integrate a few hundred school leavers into the work process. That means for them a year that counts when they are employed, a year that brings them something! Learning by doing is still better than doing nothing, and in the end it will be a year in which they will also have the opportunity to test their talents and perhaps to "hold up" with one company or another. Ladies and gentlemen! This is for me a policy by which one can actually teach school leavers a start job, and I think it is very good. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to make a second point on research and development. Although we have well-trained employees, we do not learn research at the university, but only in practice. I therefore believe that industrial research and the projects financed by the technology billions are the right way forward. But we must not deceive ourselves about one thing: Industrial research does not mean that a project can only be submitted if it is fully financed by an undertaking's contract, but we will still have to promote a certain basic amount at research institutions. International examples show that this is necessary because large research institutions, such as Seibersdorf, cannot be postponed from today to tomorrow. The opposite is the case. We need to be able to carry out such projects, research institutions on a permanent basis. Let me briefly mention a third point on social services. I think this sector is a growth sector. If those 21 billion schillings paid annually by the federal government are actually managed in this sector, for example by the – still missing – comprehensive expansion of mobile services, we could in this way also come to more jobs. I think this is a sector in which federal money can directly create jobs. I would ask you to think about it and to be very creative in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e8380	The next speech is by Mr Mag. Schreiner vor. Please, honourable Member. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e8402	Mr President. Mr Federal Minister for Economic Affairs! Ladies and gentlemen! In my speech, I refer to the statement by the Federal Minister for Finance on the economic situation. Federal Minister! I noticed the following in your report and the criticism of my previous speaker: This report contains an analysis, but no solution, not even solutions. Should we also provide you with the solution from the opposition?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Let's change places! [[Abg. Nürnberger: That would be nice!]] You are going to the opposition banks and we are going to the government bank, then you will see how liberal solutions and solutions look. [[New condolences with the liberals.]] I would just like to make one comment on this report, something which I noticed when reading your written report. The Federal Minister for Finance writes that the increasing globalisation of the world economy is one of the greatest challenges. - Well, that's right! The question is, what answers do you have? A state such as Austria should actually give the following answers: less tax burden, lower additional wage costs, better business environment, performance-ready people, performance-ready businesses, creative products, more market opportunities. – Do we have all of this, for example, Mr. Federal Minister for Economic Affairs, in tax policy? Did we actually do a little bit further on the question of tax harmonisation with the European Union over the last two years? We still have a tax unique in Europe, namely the drink tax. We have a double beer tax against our German neighbor and some other taxes, which are really laughing at international tax experts. There is, for example, a tax of 80 s per quarter for farmers whose collection costs by means of a payment card and the handling of 300 s. [[Abg. Haigermoser: bureaucracy reduction!]] I really wonder if we in Austria can postpone the tax reform on the Sankt-Nimmerleins day, which is to a day beyond the turn of the millennium. Federal Minister! I would like to praise the Lower Austrian Land Day, where, on the occasion of the budget debate on the national proposal, a four-party request was made by the ÖVP, of course, the SPÖ, the Liberals, who are making only one single-man group, and we have contributed liberals, in which the national government is called upon to act in the Federal Government in the sense of the grounds for its application, with the aim of ensuring that profits not collected from the companies are taxed. - Listen! Listen! A similar request is made each time – mostly by the Socialists – within the framework of our comprehensive presentation of the tax measures, with the justification, the cost of billions of schilling. Recently I heard from Mr Klubobmann Kostelka's mouth that 200 billion to 250 billion schilling would cost all the tax proposals we have made. Mr. Klubobmann Kostelka! I think we should be able to count one and one together before assessing what proposals from the liberals on tax policy are costing. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] One thing I must say: You won't be able to say: Globalisation of the world economy, good analysis – we sleep unfortunately in the pendulum watch! You won't be able to say: We are in the European Union, tax harmonisation would be important, we note, but we are not doing anything like that. The Federal Minister for Finance is now in the ECOFIN Council, he will also be chairman of the ECOFIN Council for half a year, exactly from 1 January. ==References== In December 1998, and I am very curious about whether one of the urgent problems of the harmonisation of the internal market is really being solved at this time or whether the lost six months will be. I fear the latter because it will certainly be difficult for the Minister for Finance to make his ideas clear to his colleagues verbally. This will be the first difficulty. The second difficulty will be: Tax harmonisation can also be done by simply comparing what is going on and what is going on in other countries and where we ourselves have outsiders by taking a look over the border. However, the Federal Minister for Finance and the Minister for Economic Affairs has not managed to do so until now. It is therefore a sad analysis of this report. You didn't deliver the solutions.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e8471	The motion for a resolution which has just been put forward has been properly tabled, duly supported and is therefore under negotiation. The one by the honourable Member Mag. Schreiner's motion for a resolution concerning measures to strengthen Austria's economic location, in particular with a view to limiting the flow of purchasing power to neighbouring countries, has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e8505	The next speech is by Mr Eder. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e8526	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As some of my previous speakers have pointed out, the economic situation in Europe and in Austria is marked by damper optimism. The upturn phase cannot also be denied by professional novices, although there are significant differences in past economic upturns. Thus, favourable impulses are mainly based on foreign demand, depending on the degree of interdependence with the North American economy. In the field of investment, however, the situation is still not satisfactory. This concerns, among other things, the construction industry, which in particular also has to deal with the problem of existing overcapacity in Europe. We have only heard today in the newspapers about the construction industry from professional mouths, as it is ordered about them. Ladies and gentlemen! As we know, the subjective assessment of the economic situation is particularly important. In this light, for example, the latest Wifo-EU economic test, which reflects a significant improvement in the mood of domestic companies. For example, the order list in the industry is still considered to be too low. However, the negative responses have almost halved since the beginning of the year. This has certainly also contributed to the government's commitment to pay particular attention to the labour market and thus to the economy, despite the necessary restrictive budgetary course. Exports and technology offensives, for example, are two important points which Parliament has also been working on in recent weeks. Moreover, the rapid and fundamental reform of plant law and industrial regulations has clearly demonstrated the problem-solving capacity of the coalition and will help you to strengthen the competitiveness of our country accordingly. At the same time, however, we are faced with the fact that the labour market does not react as we believe it is necessary for social democrats, despite moderate wage developments. The domestic economy is also not spared by structural changes, which are partly described as "globalisation", but which do not always have anything to do with it. But this is not only a threat, but also a challenge and a chance in some areas. Austria's policy mix has proved its worth on an international scale. Even in countries that some today like to quote, such as the USA or the Netherlands, unemployment is clearly above that of our country. But this must not weigh us in deceitful security. Finally, every single unemployed person is just too much. The inclusion of a section on employment policy in the Maastricht II Treaty is a non-essential signal. Austria has always been committed to this, and therefore in the end it has remained right. But this too must not deceive us that it is basically just a signal. But perhaps this will really bring about a change of attitude at European level, which has also contributed to various elections held in recent months. Perhaps the introduction of sanctions would also be appropriate if a certain number of unemployed were to be exceeded. With regard to all the importance of pan-European reflections on the creation of high-quality jobs and the slow but safe process of recognizing that the achievement of the Maastricht criteria to date may not be the universality, employment policy remains, however, primarily a national matter, a national matter which needs to be addressed in the light of budget constraints and ever-progressing external links of a wide variety of measures and activities. The time of one-dimensional economic policy approaches, provided that they have ever existed, is finally over. Statements such as "Keynes is dead" may have a certain physical content of truth, but otherwise not exactly of special far-sightedness. The same applies if, on the one hand, the preference of the private is promoted to the State, for example, when it comes to more politically than economically motivated privatisations, however, in the case of business or economic problems of private companies or industries, the State is immediately held accountable and put into duty. Of course, promotions, guarantees, acceptance of liability, export and technology support are required. The one-dimensionality of political argumentation is therefore already not kept in practical implementation and therefore leads itself ad absurdum. Kurt Mayer, for example, keeps this in mind in an excellent comment recently published in the "standard" and rightly speaks of dogmatic mists and half-truths. For example, the U.S. employment policy, highlighted by some as a model, is emerging as a policy leading to involuntary part-time employment for 4.5 million people. More than 10 million people have a job there on call and more than 8 million people are so-called "self-employed" – under quotation marks – who only have phased work. In total, the unemployment rate shown in the official statistics is an additional 28 percent underemployment, whose fate is likely to disillusion all here. Therefore, one should not demand for others something that one is not willing to buy. The social security of the welfare state which people in that country have fought does not go by any way. In turn, I'm allowed to quote America: The lower third of the income earners there receive by 25 percent less wages than 20 years earlier. This, ladies and gentlemen, cannot serve as a model for us. There are different ways to proceed and to combine different economic policies. Kurt Mayer believes that the search for an intelligent package of measures makes more sense than the repeated attempt to pseudoanalyze the beliefs of a neoliberal policy. Employment policy considerations and instruments therefore have their full right, even if they carry Keynesianist traits. The combination of public investment, such as through the newly created ASFINAG in the field of road construction, with appropriate support from export and technology strengthening programmes, and the creation of competitive framework conditions, is also part of a responsible economic policy, as well as the social security of workers, and thus the ultimately indispensable maintenance of the purchasing power of the self-employed workers for the economy. Whoever wills to deny this or fails to do so is lying to himself. There is therefore an unscrupulous deregulation and liberalisation policy to set clear social policy limits at all costs. Political considerations are not only legitimate but strictly necessary. It cannot concern itself to celebrate the winners in unhindered competition and simply forget the losers. To make people's mobility the same requirements as the mobility of capital would be deeply unsocial, ultimately also despicable to human beings. Although this must not lead to anti-competitive crusts and structural conservation, it must always remain at the centre of policy. For example, it does not matter where research results and technology developments are implemented. It is not irrelevant how the ERP funds are used. It is also not without meaning where strategic headquarters are located. Finally, it is not surprising whether and by whom strategic participations are held. International location competition represents a huge challenge for national economic policies, especially as the temptation to commit itself to a policy of entering the downward leading spiral of liberalisation competition, with the excuse of location security. The result would be the reduction of social achievements, the reduction of environmental standards, an unhindered tax competition, which will, after all, have a functional impact on the labour factor in order to keep the capital factor. To move in this field of tension is certainly not easy for politics and will lead to mis-decisions and adaptations on time and time again. But Austria has proved in recent decades that it is in a position to prove itself in this field of tension, and if, for example, certain corrections need to be made in the context of fiscal consolidation, it cannot be derived from the fact that the overall strategy was wrong. Standard of living and quality of life in our country, ladies and gentlemen, prove the opposite. However, we must continue to try – perhaps even stronger than before – to ensure that everyone can participate. - Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e8614	Mr Gaugg is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e8636	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! It is likely to be a novelty in the House – and this shows that the government is in a crisis of confidence – that social-democratic and ÖVP MEPs are coming in and bringing in a motion for a resolution calling on the members of the government to work. This should be unique in the history of this Parliament. This motion for a resolution calls for ten points – and this is already peculiar – to increase expenditure on research and development, to ensure that employment policy measures have absolute priority, to promote youth employment and more. This can only mean – and I am quite clearly saying this – that there is a crisis of confidence between Parliament and the Federal Government. The social partners are calling for a resolution instead of putting together with their ministers and finally drawing up a programme for Austria. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The two declarations made today by the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Minister for Finance must first of all ask what there are two explanations if both ministers have the same opinion. It must be said that there is an unnecessary one. You, Minister of Finance Farnleitner, probably agreed to your speech with Mr Edlinger's speech, so that the whole thing goes in one direction. But the explanations from you and your colleagues are passing by reality. They close their eyes to reality. Despite the savings package, despite flexibilization of working time, despite Sunday work, despite no-one rounds, despite the removal of special expenditures and so on, economic and budgetary routing continue. The next robbery has been decided in Rust: Reduction in building savings, increase in fees, reduction in pensions, increase in the maximum basis of assessment and so on. That is, you are planning a general deterioration of the standard of income and living of the Austrians. You endanger social peace with your beauty. You should start a textile trade that is in need anyway, because there might be a need for beautiful colours – but not in the government! You color in your remarks, but you know very well that reality is another. We have a high level of unemployment in Austria, which is partly a youth unemployment. With your policy you also endanger the existence of the farmers, the existence of the workers and the existence of the traders to an ever greater extent. They operate exclusively shareholder value policies. Last example: The establishment of Mr Hochleitner and Mr Schmidt to develop a research concept. Before the result is finally on the table, it is already crushed because the ERP fund is rightly excited about it and says: Why should the funds be removed, dissolved, while a policy in favour of Siemens on and for itself would be your goal. It is similar with the question of alternative energies. Alternative energies are an important topic. But you have failed to use those means that you collect with the energy tax actually for alternative energies, but you have put them into the general bad budget. In America there are certainly many sides of shadow, but with us I only see shadows. That is why it might be worth considering and bringing in the benefits that Nobel Laureate Becker has also mentioned in his remarks and that you yourself have included in your speech. They have actually committed ten sins. The pension question is unresolved, the apprenticeship situation is unsolved. The problems of social security institutions are unresolved. The insolvency fund has a debt of 5.2 billion schilling. Economic development looks poor: We have over 112 billion Schilling trade deficits. But there are Sunday speeches in here. In here there are Sunday speeches by Mr. Federal Minister for Finance and by Mr. Federal Minister for Economic Affairs! Ladies and gentlemen! You also escaped the official situation. The NATO question continues to argue. The next topic will be health care in Austria. Your system, which still defends you, has become fragile. I expect a minister of this Republic to have a future orientation and above all a social security for the population in that country!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e8698	Mr Dkfm is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Mühlbachler. Please, honourable Member. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e8719	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Federal Minister! Whether I want to or not, I just have to replicate my previous speakers from the "F". [[Call to the liberals:This is a bad luck!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: We didn't expect anything else!]] Indeed! I wish other speakers so that I do not always have to replicate the superficialities of the "F". [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is in the large and whole skyscraper when a Lord Magistrates himself. Mr Schreiner, of whom I think a lot about which I know that he has very good ideas, that he points out and agrees with the economic report of any future orientation, as if he had not seen this paper made available to us by Mr Farnleitner. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Own ideas!]] I think it is pointless to point out that the future prospects are set out on several sides, because you just don't want to hear it and not perceive it, because you must not be what is not wanted by you. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Blossom]] That's how the world looks! It also gives an opinion on the economic situation and on tax harmonisation. However, one, ladies and gentlemen of the "F" must bear in mind: Tax harmonisation is right and good, but I do not think that Austria, as one of the smallest EU Member States, will actually be able to operate the tax harmonisation from across Europe. This is a recognition of the order of magnitude. But if you just said it because of the sound, then it's a pity around the time. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Krüger.]] Next, Mr Gaugg. . I think Mr Gaugg has gone out to avoid having to debate. – It is simply shocking when everything and everything that is positive in Austria is negated. Has Mr Gaugg overlooked that, for example, the unemployment rate in Austria is significantly lower than in the America he has so often praised and quoted? Has he also overlooked that the inflation rate is much lower in us? Or has he also overlooked that, for example, the total tax burden on us is lower than in the United States? The Austrian key dates can be seen without a doubt! They actually leave the economy, the entrepreneurship, one of special quality, out of question. There is nothing in the discussion at all if every fact is simply polemized and no realistic contributions to the problem are made. [[Abg. Haigermoser: What about your contributions, colleague Mühlbachler? I'm waiting, I've already picked the pencil!]] I mean, that should be held once. From the liberal point of view, everything is always made worse, only scandalized, especially where the discussions should actually begin. However, this does not bring you together, because it simply does not fit into your concept and because one should actually get into parliamentary work. [[Abg. Haigermoser: (who takes off his watch and keeps it in the direction of speaker) Mühlbachler! Your speaking time is over!]] Mr Haigermoser! Mr President, thank God for the speaking time, not you. Finally, I would like to say the following: My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I will also take the opposition parties to prayer! I believe that the Austrian key dates are very good. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You should know, don't believe!]] However, we should actually make it easier for the economy to do something by making a fair effort to move towards real debureaucratisation. That's especially up to us. We have changed and reformed many areas, but in the course of these reforms we have created a new kind of bureaucracy, and there we need action. At least I see this as a mayor when I have to recognize, in many discussions with young entrepreneurs, that they understand their crafts very well, but that they are often held off by their actual entrepreneurial work by the conditions which are given to them in a bureaucratic way. An approach should be found there, including, of course, in order to facilitate the economic situation of our companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e8857	Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Please, ladies and gentlemen. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e8878	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would just like to apologize to the government parties for not being able to make myself here and say: It's all great! For I cannot take away from the argument in this report that, for example, unemployment is better with us than in New Zealand, that our pension system is the best in the world – I know it is unfinancing – or that the economic researchers expect a growth acceleration. I can't believe that either. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! How the economy really is, you can see that very clearly when you go through, for example, the streets of Vienna. In no block You will find a business series that is fully occupied, but you will find in every block shops that have long been listed for rent. No one has any interest in running the economy anymore, because it is so bad for entrepreneurs. [[New condolences with the liberals.]] All the clocks in economic and social policy show that it is already five minutes ago. And what are you doing, ladies and gentlemen of the coalition parties, together with the government? – You lean back, you confess and you see no need for action at all! Mr Mühlbachler! They said that we should be realistically debated. – But we want to debate realistically! We want the population finally to be given pure wine! It is true, however, that the government parties are only doing fine dyeing, as is apparent from these two reports, ladies and gentlemen. [[the speaker shall keep documents up to date]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I would also like to give you an example of how social and economic policy is being pursued here. For years, everyone has known that the "best world pension system" can no longer be financed. [[Abg. May. Stadler: The most expensive!]] For years we've been talking and talking about it, but nothing is done except small retuses. Three years ago it said: By the turn of the millennium, this reform will secure pensions for all people. – Exactly three years have passed, and after these three years we had to realize that there is no further need for reform. They operate nothing but cosmetics from one day to another. I would like to give you an example of how shortsighted you are about the pension question. I was at a discussion on pension rights and a representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs was also present. This section chief said: "Well, it's G'gangen so far, then it's going to be in the future!" – It meant the right to pension. [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is an Austrian section head! "That's where everyone can come!"]] – This is the "wide view" of a section head, namely the one responsible for the pension scheme! By the way, this head of section has also been seen in the programme "To the cause" where he felt immediately desired, the opinion of Professor Rürup, which really gives a very realistic presentation of our pension system and its financing, quickly to be puzzled again. You tried to say: It's not that bad anyway, you Austrians can live on anyway, it's going to go somehow. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Of red and black!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen and Minister-in-Office of the Council. You should also know that President Richard Leutner of the main association of social security institutions has really raised the problem. He said: More than half of the unemployed are unemployed before retirement. – That is, if you say that we have a lower unemployment rate than in New Zealand, you also have to say that you keep this low unemployment rate only by giving people the opportunity to go in early retirement. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's it!]] Mr President of the General Association of Social Security Carriers said: Only every third worker goes directly from working life to retirement, and two thirds of the work goes out of unemployment into retirement. – You can’t embarrass us for fear and fear in this way of thinking on the one hand and in view of the inaction of the government in such a situation on the other! And we will not tire out warning the people of such a government!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e8988	Mrs Hagenhofer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e9009	Mr President. Mr. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Haigermoser meant no one wanted to paint black. So it is, Mr Haigermoser! But you have forgotten to say that the world has changed and that it will also move on. We simply face a double challenge, namely increasing innovation speed and increasing globalisation. This means that it is and remains the task of policy to promote an orderly and accompanying design of economic life. This means that framework conditions must also be created by the government under which the economy and workers can live together in social fairness. The principle of the share-holder philosophy, which is to maximize profits, is very likely to be opposed, because the figures are still human beings! We know that innovation is essential for Europe's location, but we also know that it is a matter of self-realising that everyone looking for work also finds work. We also know very well that growth impulses for our economy come mainly from the export sector, and in addition: Whoever has the youth has the land. This means that we must invest both in the training of young people, in the training of workers and in the retraining of the unemployed. In other words, we need to create training and work opportunities, for example, in the form of job rotations, which are limited in time and associated with stays in foreign-speaking countries, with the aim of imparting knowledge of foreign language, knowledge of work processes, establishing new economic and personal contacts, and perhaps increasing exports in small areas. Until now, we have been able to giant internationally through the high level of training of our workers. We have to take into account facts that concern all people, and considering those facts does not mean a brake on progress, but prevents uncertainty and rejection. Economic and monetary union in particular must be seen as an aid community against the alleged dangers of globalisation and as a social project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e9045	The next speech is by Mrs Rossmann. Please, ladies and gentlemen. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e9067	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Federal Minister! I am particularly pleased that the Minister of Finance is here today and is listening to us for so long, because the statement that my colleague has already called the history of good night, I call it a total ignorance, namely as an ignorance of Austrian tourism. As a tourist speaker, I am particularly concerned about the ignorance of the problems of tourism. That is why, Minister of Finance, I am very glad that you can listen to this for at least 4 minutes. [[Interlocutory calls and opposition to the SPÖ.]] We are in the most disastrous summer season that Austria has ever had. Minister Farnleitner, responsible for tourism, may confirm this to you. The report speaks of exogenous and endogenous factors as well as of the family problems which I do not want to dispute. But I do not put you in ignorance, but pure intention and ignorance, as you simply did not mention in any way and with no syllables the bad legal framework, which is the main reason for the bad situation. [[Abg. Arbitrators: And the sun doesn't make you shine!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I think it is almost a schizophrenic if, for example, I read in the statement by the Minister of Economic Affairs that Austrian policy cannot influence international causes and so on, so on, the exogenous factors, but it must take decisive steps in the affected areas. - That's what you have in your statement. I wonder, Mr. Finanzminister: Where was this influence in the introduction of energy taxation? – You know very well that the energy tax for tourism companies is a massive burden: 200 000 S additional load for indoor and sauna facilities. Minister! This is a deterioration of the already dangerously thin equity ceiling! The establishments cannot pass on this burden, they can no longer be charged to the room price. Free ancillary services are required. Where was your influence, which you refer to in the report, for example, on 1st. July when you raised interest on BÜRGES loans? – The Federal Government as the main owner of the castles increases interest rates for BÜRGES loans! Where's the promotion of young entrepreneurs? – This is your area of responsibility! Where is your influence in the drinking tax, Mr. Finanzminister? – You know very well that the drinking tax will fall in the near future. What you're doing here is pure bird-strout policy. 5 Billions of Schilling Become You will have to give it to the local authorities in some way in the near future, because businesses across Austria are already following my example and turning to the European Court of Justice for a drink tax. – That’s your responsibility! Where's your responsibility regarding 13. Sales tax dates? – It's once said he's only being pushed in once. Do you know what this means for winter season operations? - You must be on the 15th. In December, a loan was made to deliver the tax to the State for December and the advance payment for January, almost as a non-sensory loan. – This is your area of responsibility. No word was lost about it! [[In the case of the liberals as well as the aggregator, I should like to thank you for your support. Dr. stupid.]] Mr Puttinger – he is just going out – once took courage and spoke a true word in a broadcast in the last few days: He called you, Minister of Finance, a crasher. This time, not Minister Farnleitner of the Crashes, but you. From the side of the ÖVP and from us liberals very massively came the demand to relieve bus tourism. Do you know what the current Vignette regulation means, for example, for a bus operator from Germany with a fleet of over 100 buses? – He has to buy a bus vignette for every single bus! They are not willing to come to him with any solution. In the meantime, the bus operators are already making a wide curve around Austria and are no longer going to Austria, because they are not willing to solve a vignette for each bus. [[Interlocutory calls from Dr. Schwimmer and Dr. Maitz.]] You know very well that you haven't met the bus operators either in terms of a solution that would at least have allowed drivers to leave the motorway on the first motorway exit in Austria and buy a vignette. By the way, it is also a terrible effort for private cars to have to get a vignette before the trip to Austria, especially because you don't get it everywhere. – All of this is your area of responsibility, Minister! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] For this reason, we shall put forward the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Minister! I would like to ask you to finally take the problem of tourism seriously and to act accordingly.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e9182	The motion for a resolution which has just been read has been properly tabled, is supported accordingly and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Dr. It's stupid. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e9207	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In today's debate, some speakers have stressed the importance for Austria's economic location of having many or few bureaucratic burdens on businesses. I am one of those who believe that the area of bureaucratic burdens on businesses is a very essential location, and I can point out that at the last summit in Amsterdam the EU decided to set up a task force with the aim of red tape. In this sense, I propose a motion for a resolution which reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! As far as this joint motion for a resolution is concerned, heindl, stupid. It is, as I mean, really about doing everything in order to enable businesses to have their hands free for productive work, and therefore to keep unnecessary bureaucratic and statistical burdens away from businesses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e9276	The motion for a resolution just read has also been properly tabled and is under negotiation. No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed and we are entering the voting procedure. I ask the honourable Members to take up their seats for this purpose, and I ask the staff to leave the corridors between the seats. We shall first proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Trattners and comrades on prevention of further cuts in the field of construction savings. In the event of your consent, I ask you for a sign to be given. – This is done by the minority. The application is rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr. Novotny, Dr. Feurstein and Comrades on the security of Austria's economic location and on employment initiatives. In the event of your consent, I ask you for a sign to be given. – This is done by the majority. The request was accepted. (E 66.) We shall also proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Members. Schreiner and comrades concerning measures to strengthen Austria's economic location, in particular with a view to limiting the flow of purchasing power to neighbouring countries. In the event of your consent, I ask you for a sign to be given. – This is done by the minority. The request is therefore rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Rossmann and Mr Comrades on improving the framework for tourism and tourism. In the event of your consent, I ask you for a sign to be given. – This is done by the minority. The application is rejected. Finally, we shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr. Heindl, Dr. Stummvoll and comrades on statistical relief offensive. In the event of your consent, I ask you for a sign to be given. The request was adopted unanimously. (E 67.) 2. Point Report of the Building Committee on the Government Template (698 of the Supplements): Infrastructural Financing Act 1997 and the Government template (765 of the Supplements): Federal Law amending the Federal Road Finance Act 1996 (828 of the Supplements) 3rd. Point Report by the Building Committee on Amendment No 227/A (E) by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Thomas Prinzhornand comrades concerning the dissolution of the two remaining road construction companies (829 of the Supplements) 4. Point Report by the Building Committee on Request 431/A by Mr Edith Halle Rund Comrades on a Federal Law amending the Federal Road Financing Act 1996 (830 of the Supplements) 5. Point Report by the Building Committee on Amendment 379/A (E) by Mrs Ing. May. Erich L. Schreinerand Comrades on the Chaos um die Mautpickerl (831 of the Supplements) 6. Point Report by the Committee on Construction on Amendment 333/A (E) by Mr Rudolf Anschober and Mr Comrades on the increase in transit traffic by the construction of the waste sheet as part of the Alemagna (832 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e9448	Ladies and gentlemen! We now come to points 2 to 6 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. The first mention is made by Mr Mag. Listen to me. Please, honourable Member, you have the floor. 8 minutes of voluntary time limit.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e9476	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If today the majority of the House decides on the infrastructure financing law and the innovation included in it on federal road financing, I think this decision is nothing but the admission of a bad compromise and the official legitimisation of a budgetary and government debt gap. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] 7.8 billion schilling in federal debt are distributed out of the Federal Budget and brought into three different companies, most of them in the ASFINAG, ASFINAG-new. Ladies and gentlemen! Everyone knows that this will not eliminate any schilling of the liabilities of the Republic of Austria. Everyone who has only dealt with matter superficially knows that the aim is not to establish a high-performance road-building and financing society by this law, but that it is only about pressing the debt ratio on paper – I say deciduously and explicitly: on paper – from currently 72 percent to just under 70 percent. What's the other thing, ladies and gentlemen? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Now you can do that. You can make everything possible, and the Republic of Austria, Mr. Federal Minister, has already looked at other EU Member States a lot about how to present some piece of art there and there, and how to get deeply involved in the trick box, only financial policy and budgetary policy are nowhere to be achieved except optics. I only refer to what Germany has done in this regard, how unbelievably the Minister of Finance has become Waigel when he sent himself into the gold and foreign reserves in the course of a re-evaluation. Finally, what you are planning, together with the Minister for Finance, Mr Federal Minister, is nothing else. It is the Austrian version. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If you look exactly behind the figures, Mr Federal Minister, then you will have to admit that this does not even reach the second Maastricht criterion, because it is known that the criterion is 60 percent of GDP, not 69 percent, nor 70 percent. This is a solid proof to me that neither the EU institutions nor the Federal Government itself take these famous Maastricht criteria seriously, for otherwise it would not actually do so. It is only about showing the EU authorities, the EU Commission, the EU Council that there is a little movement and that the rate tends to go down, but only on paper. Federal Minister! Believe what you want, you have delivered in committee some superficial arguments that were not really arguments, but do not believe that this is a brawl. It's all different, but it's not a brawler. At the end of the day, the ASFINAG budget trick is just as pious as that which Waigel and others, for example, in France, have pre-exceeded. If you already have a reorganisation of the federal road construction in mind, then fill this structure with at least content – that would be my request, that would be our concern. They would have had the opportunity to disband both road subsidiaries, namely the ÖSAG and the ASG, and to bring their activities into the new ASFINAG; thus, a merger that would have brought about a lot of savings and also created synergies. You could have argued, but you were sitting in the committee and regret that the countries did not follow you. However, with regret alone, Mr Federal Minister, one will not continue, solutions are required. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is already limited to an increase in the taxpayer's income if you make the claim several times, Federal Minister, the staff costs would not increase now in the course of this new construction. I am telling you that exactly the opposite is the case, and may I remind you briefly of what the financial procurator writes to you on this subject. In this case, it is mentioned in point 3: "The claim that additional personnel and material expenditure is not to be expected in the form of a cover is obviously irrelevant, as the ASFINAG is now to become a federal road planning and construction company from a real financing company. In addition to the two secondary management posts, there will now have to be at least two additional management posts (primary management posts) and numerous other employees, since it is world-wide to assume that the employees of ÖSAG (Sitz Salzburg) and Alpenstraßen-AG (Sitz Innsbruck) will have to go to Vienna (in what free spaces?) be relocated." – Signed: the President of the Financial Procuratorate Dr. Kubiczek. Federal Minister! That clearly disproves that. But it's still going on. I have been given a confidential protocol, and it is being discussed quite openly that three new directors are already being co-imported. Here, too, I can read to you so that you can believe that this is not a free invention, here it says: "A triad board is planned for the new company, with a high probability of being appointed to the board of directors" – hears, hears! – "Dipl.-Ing. Schedl, SPÖ Wien, Dipl.-Ing. Engleder, SPÖ Vienna, Chamber of Workers." Then a paragraph, and then it goes on to say: "The third board is not yet safe, possibly Schragl – ÖVP Vienna." Federal Minister! The question arises, as this protocol states, whether the federal states should not try to enforce a federal candidate, in particular with regard to the fact that such a candidate can and will safely influence the system of conservation with the federal states in a positive sense. Ladies and gentlemen! That's how it looks behind the scenes, and as the strongest opposition, we won't tire out to unscath this post-package! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] My colleague Hofmann will then deal with this resolution in detail. But you've seen, it's really not about reorganisation, it's about posts. Another criticism concerns the trade agreement scheme, which is now being sought between ASFINAG, road companies and the countries. This work was carried out by a great deal until the end of the contract. During the Committee's deliberations, it was not yet clear when the Treaty was going to be signed, but you did pretend that this was not a problem. I'll tell you: There has been a serious dispute here, and the countries in particular have seen the share of costs provided for in the Treaty, the cost clause. Ladies and gentlemen! This has resulted in a number of insignificant, empty committee statements in the Committee, but it has not solved the problem, which in fact are only verbal calming down. I don't need to go closer to the contract. Federal Minister! I have received this agreement because many things that move people in this country are systematically and regularly landing with us. Federal Minister: We are not available for budget flaws and sham reforms. I ask you to present an ASFINAG solution in which old debts are not only postponed but also eliminated. I call on you to stop the emerging post-achievers in your area of responsibility, and I call on you at last to support the principle of the principle of the principle of private economy for the state economy.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e9591	Mr Dr. Schwimmer is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Please, honourable Member. 8 minutes of voluntary time limit.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e9612	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I do not know, it is at the time of my previous speaker or perhaps of different authors, but perhaps it is also because for speakers on this pult there is a different immunity from that of the Constitution than for broadcasts, at least the issue differs from what the old liberal and neoliberal Firlinger here reflected about his statements, which are "geticked" over the APA at 12.25 a.m. The expressions of power... – Surely old liberals! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] Was he there or not? Has he changed or not, Mr. Stadler? The expressions of power that he used on this speaker's desk, such as "swirl" and the like, are not found in the broadcast. Other expressions are also used in the issue for what he here referred to as "confidential protocol", which obviously is not true, which may come from any FPÖ district organisation. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Mr. Swimmer, you're Cver, right? How's your CV brother?]] In the issue, he says that what he has claimed here is being co-imported. Here at the speaker's desk it becomes the "confidential protocol". What can I believe now of what Mr Firlinger has said? With the truth, Mr Firlinger obviously does not take it too precisely. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: You were Cver, weren't you?]] Mr. Stadler, you just have no idea. They're not telling the truth! That's not true either. You don't take it so precisely with the truth at all. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You were Cver, weren't you?]] Mr. Stadler! You're at war with the truth, so it's better, you're quiet now. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: The CV didn't record the swimmer!]] In contrast to Mr Firlinger, I would like to deal with the content of the Infrastructure Finance Act. And here you see the difference to the FPÖ: Mr Firlinger has here held a plea for the destruction of functioning companies, namely Alpenstraßen AG and ÖSAG. For example, Tiroler FPÖ is quite different from the Alpenstraßen AG. This is not because the country of Tyrol will be expropriated there and a functioning society will be smashed. [[Abg. May. Stadler: For expropriation no one will be! Are you for expropriation?]] In contrast to this freedom-based destruction and demolition policy, this law establishes a working group ASFINAG, Alpenstraßen AG and ÖSAG, to which the financing, planning, construction and maintenance of the mandatory federal road network, the collection of tolls and charges for use and the operation of the existing obligations of ASFINAG from road construction are transferred, i.e. the entire business area and all the tasks of road construction. To say that is important because Mr Firlinger meant that there would be only a budgetary and government debt gap here. In fact, the taxpayer is relieved of 78 billion schilling debts, legally and financially impeccable. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Flares: Move!]] Mr. Firlinger! Rebursed because this ASFINAG has to pay for the next 50 years a fee of these 78 billion schillings to the German Federal Roads A and S and to the German Federal Roads B. This is a legal, financial and economically sound solution. Mr Firlinger does not want to take note of the fact that this can work, but this can already be seen from the first reports of experience, for example, for the benefit of the vignette. In the first quarter, the sales of vignettes with more than 2 billion schillings have already achieved almost all the projected results for 1997, so the result will certainly be exceeded in the annual average, more than that. After taxes and after the return of the revenue from the truck toll to the Ministry of Finance, 1.3 billion schilling from the toll revenue for loopholes and expansions in the motorway and highway network will already be used from the revenue of the first quarter of 1997. Spatensticht ist in March and April 1997 for the closing of the gap between Völkermarkt-West – Klagenfurt-Ost on the A 2, extension of the Selzthal A 9, Semmering-Sonderstollen S 6. The first construction projects to be financed by Vignette revenue are already under way. At the beginning of the construction of the routes Schön – St. Pankraz, A 9, Sondierstollen – Tunnelkette Klaus and St. Martin – Oberpüllendorf, S 31, are now launching two more projects in July of the year. You've been trying to defuse everything. But it works, and people see it. Something is done for them with these toll intakes. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Firlinger: That doesn't work, otherwise not so much material would land with us, Mr. Cot!]] People also accept it in contrast to the FPÖ. 3.1 million pieces of annual vignettes have been sold in the first quarter. That is, Austria has a 90 percent degree of supply. 96 percent of Austrian passenger cars have been found with the Vignette for control counting. It is clear, therefore, that it works. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: This is a fundamental error!]] There are certainly a few more things you can improve. An improvement is made with this law. The so-called weekly vignette – it was a ten-day vignette – is flexibilised, i.e. it no longer applies from Friday to the following weekend, but it is practically devalued by the user himself in the future and then the scheduled duration applies. [[Abg. Böhacker: We would have needed that already in May!]] For the disabled, there is a considerable relief from the fact that they do not have to recover the money until they get a free vignette at the same time as the disabled pass. With a joint resolution, we also want to tackle the sensitive and delicate problem of the border. Ministers are asked to develop, in the context of the Schengen Agreement, a Schengen-compliant solution which, in my view, can also be used to better regulate sensitive border crossings such as Kufstein and Bregenz. [[Abg. Böhacker: What about Salzburg?]] This is a sensible policy, which is a policy close to the citizen, and we are in favour of it. – We clearly say no to a free policy of destruction!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e9804	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Peter. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e9834	Mr President. Federal Minister! You can see it from just two sides: You can play the homage court council just like Mr Schwimmer, or you can overcritically judge it. Let me go the way in the middle. Federal Minister! I do not want to say "indebtedness" – we all know that these things fall under the term "creative accounting". This structural measure is certainly important in order to provide the basis for the road and its administration to be established in a common society. You know that we are critical of the question of Mautpickerl. I believe that it would be much more useful for a road user-dependent, user-dependent style and even for the entire road network. But I'll deal with that later. What bothers me the most about the solution is not that you can break it out – just as all the other EU countries do – but that it has not succeeded in dispensing the national road administrations on a train too – no one can explain to me why the institutions of the countries must be – to separate it so that the roads that fall into the area of the ASFINAG can be cared for by it itself. The fact is that we are now entering into work contracts with countries that can prescribe more or less what they want, because the ASFINAG does not have a market partner. She doesn't have an alternative to that. It can write out the orders, but if the Landesstraßenverwaltung von Vorarlberg, von Tirol, von Salzburg or whereever excessive charges are required, it will have few alternatives. We know that it has already been a popular game to raise as much as possible the costs charged to the federal government as possible. This whole link with the countries does not seem to be necessary in this case. It would have been a great failure to say that the countries should do what is useful, and at last should divide their national road administrations into their own societies, or should write out the works and make them private. The ASFINAG is supposed to have its high-ranking road network without federal borders – these are completely no matter; whether I have snow in Amstetten in Lower Austria or in Traun in Upper Austria, can not be the topic – look after it. We must try in this area – federalism brings many positive things, but also negative ones – to reduce the bureaucratic things. I am therefore sorry that, in the course of this disbursement, only the step of debt reduction has been taken, but not the further organisational reform. On further requests concerning the issue of the exemption of toll and the free choice of the validity of the weekly vignette: These are improvements of a system that we have rejected for fundamental reasons in the form it has been implemented. I think that we really have to think about it, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that transport is not, in any way, reproducible. And if traffic is not random renewable, then it can only be achieved through regulation – that is what we are doing today through eco-points and the like – or the cost of transport itself – that is a market economy regulation that I no longer need to control, because it controls itself. I miss a really fundamental discussion in Austria. We are always talking about whether we want to introduce road pricing on our own, whether we do not want it at all, whether we want it only for cars or for heavy traffic only, but we do not have the principle discussion. High house! There is no doubt that transport is a factor which determines the economic development, but also the part of an economy in its regional, national and international influence. In the context of a survey, we should really ask ourselves the very specific question as to how the increasing traffic continues. He can't go up to the XY border, and we won't build a more than three-track West motorway - we don't build it four or five-track. The question is therefore: What can we do in Austria, what can we do within the framework of the European Union in order to achieve a driving power-dependent, consumer-dependent style? And then the toll pickerl doesn't have a place anymore. It can be a good transitional solution. But the real deal with the costs of transport and the part-time work of the national and the world economy is something that is not discussed. Perhaps today's debate can be an opportunity to comment on this point. Mr Prinzhorn's request, which, with the two societies, wanted to do the opposite of what you are doing now, is probably obsolete. Mrs Haller's request is to be accepted, because it really is not to be seen that the people who want to go to Kitzbühel when they come from Rosenheim have to drive through the city of Kufstein in order not to have to buy a pickerl for 3 kilometres. I do not know why the coalition parties do not agree with this – Ditz has promised, Farnleitner has renewed the Ditz promise, but now you do not agree with me on the Committee's report; I do not understand. Do you really want anyone who makes a weekend trip to Kitzbühel to drive through the city of Kufstein because he wants to save the motorway toad for the three kilometers? – I think it would be worthwhile to think about where the most reasonable points for the beginning of the toll are; it does not have to be the border – swimmer has already responded to it. The introduction of the Tollpickerl was not a great success, Mr. Federal Minister, Mr. Vignettenman. That Parliament wants to have a report on this, I think it is fair and good. I will vote in favour of Mr Schreiner's request. I mean, the damage done by the way we introduced the toll is much greater than that caused by the introduction of the toll itself. I know, in Paris it is more expensive and in Bolzano it is also more expensive – I know that – but we have given ourselves to ridiculousness in Europe. That wouldn't have been necessary! I agree with the fact that Parliament is asking for a report on this. Mr Anschober has made a request because he already sees the Alemagna traverse through East Tyrol. The members of my club will agree with Mr Anschober's request, I will not do so because I know what it means when 5,000 to 6,000 cars per day drive through a place. This is an obstacle to the quality of life of people who are almost unbearable. I am not concerned now with building a small piece of Alemagna, but I would like to give the people in Abfaltersbach the opportunity to live in their place in a reasonable way, and therefore I will not agree with Mr Anschober's request. I believe that local experience is a very reasonable one and at a frequency of 5 000 to 6 000 vehicles per day the right to do so is given. However, I also understand the position of my colleagues in the club, who have meant that they will agree to the request of the honourable Member in order to prevent the existence of an Alemagna. I do not think that the Alemagna is useful and, in principle, that we should be talking about the costs of transport, ladies and gentlemen of the House, because the only restriction on transport must be its cost, and to present it is a political task which must be discussed nationally and internationally.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e9919	Mr Eder is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e9941	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would rather today expect that the decision-making infrastructure financing law will at last conclude the infinite history of road construction companies. But to get it right ahead: Although the measures envisaged here are an important further step to which my group will naturally agree, some of the narrow-minded individual interests have prevented the possible last major throw that we would like to have. The focus of this legislative project is on the allocation of ASFINAG street debt from the public sector. Some criteria need to be met, such as that new society can cover at least 50 percent of its costs from its own revenue. Calculations show that this is possible with regard to the existing tolls, according to the Vignette revenue – Mr Schwimmer pointed out – which are now included in the total of the ASFINAG. However, it is also necessary – and this has been clearly stated by EU experts – that the new society can control all strategic decision-making processes itself, since otherwise a mere circumvention procedure would have to be adopted. Although this was repeatedly stressed by road construction and financing specialists from the outset, some federal states insisted on the need to maintain existing contract management. In this way, however, the ASFINAG new would have been an essential area of design, and the European Union would most likely not have recognised the exclusion. It is only relatively late that the representatives of the countries have taken note of this, which means that they have to take part in a significant part of the current time pressure. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] I would just like to point out that the negotiations at civil servants' level on the conclusion of works contracts between the ASFINAG and the federal states were already quite advanced at the beginning of this year when they had to be interrupted. It is now planned that under works contracts countries will continue to provide for the tasks previously carried out by them on the toll network within the framework of the contract management. These agreements are quite beneficial for the countries, which must be said very clearly here, ladies and gentlemen. As such, the ASFINAG can terminate the contracts in 10 years at the earliest, and it is based on current standard costs, which are valorised and contain only a single-percent rationalisation component. If the contract management had been maintained, there would have been greater savings in this area. The works contracts – which is addressed to the address of Mr Firlinger – were already addressed on 23 March. It was signed by ASFINAG on 1 June 1997 and sent to the countries. So it was a long time before we had the committee meeting. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: Which variant was that: the fifth, sixth, or seventh?]] All the points agreed in the federal negotiations with the negotiating team nominated by the countries have been fulfilled in the Treaties. The subsequent claim was also met that the law in Parliament should not be passed until the works contracts were previously signed by the Federal Government. And this has happened to this day. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: Have the countries already signed?]] . I'll be right there, colleague, wait a little bit. So although the Federation has adhered to all the agreements, it is now heard from some countries – and I hear that too – that one strives to stop or block the law in the Federal Council under circumstances. To clarify: This means the failure of the exclusion, as it simply does not allow certain deadlines to be observed. The consequence would be, among other things, that Austria would be in serious distress in the area of the convergence criterion of falling debt. Moreover, as the private-law design of the new society can reduce the budget to billions, countries would also have to account for tax increases or the reduction of social benefits in billions in the event of the failure of disbursement, which would not be particularly counter-feeling for the population – and this rightly so. All of this for the subsequent demand of the countries to include in the law a damage to the federal states for damages which no one currently can name. However, even representatives of those countries that are particularly prominent have admitted that they did not know how such a blatant attitude could be legitimized. Ladies and gentlemen! It is therefore necessary to give the impression that, in some cases, there may be a situation where I do not want to speculate on its motivation. Nevertheless, the Building Committee has decided on an extensive Committee note to ensure the countries beyond the above-mentioned negotiating result. I am therefore convinced that more has been done by the Federal Government than would have been necessary. However, I would like to address another aspect of the restructuring of the ASFINAG, which seems to me to be particularly important as a building speaker of the Social Democrats. When we decided here in the National Council a few years ago to merge road construction companies into the ÖSAG and ASAG, it was stressed by many that this was the first step which should soon be followed by merger as the second and last step. This merger, involving ASFINAG, would undoubtedly have been the most useful solution. But even now this solution, as it was then, has been prevented by some federal states. Regardless of the reasons mentioned above, it is also about a viable restructuring of the management of the high-level road network in Austria. To this end, the present draft law amends the ASFINAG's corporate subject matter as it now includes financing, planning, construction and maintenance of the German road network, the collection of tolls and charges for use and the operation of the existing obligations of the ASFINAG from road construction. The intended holding solution is quite common, but only a second-best variant compared to the merger of the ASFINAG with ÖSAG and ASAG. Ladies and gentlemen! I therefore hope that societies will grow together in the future and that the merger will no longer be blocked by the countries. In this context, I would like to express my express thanks to the staff of road construction companies and their representatives, who have not only contributed to the restructuring of their societies but also made valuable proposals in the discussion process. It is therefore only fair that the Building Committee, in a comitology made at the initiative of my group, provides for collective contractual protection for workers whose implementation of the ministers of industry has to be carried out as new owners. In the Committee, he stressed that he would also like to do so accordingly. Ladies and gentlemen! It was particularly interesting, however, because the attitude of the FPÖ, which it is said the workers would like to represent. The FPÖ voted against this protection of workers in the Committee. [[Abg. Koppler: This is typical!]] Thus, political truth and poetry clap a little apart! A final word for truck-road pricing, which is inseparably linked to the AFINAG new. An essential task of the ASFINAG will be to implement the gap in the high-level road network as soon as possible, and this is simply impossible without the revenue of the truck-road pricing. [[Call to the liberals:Listen! Listen!]] However, the gap is not only necessary for drivers who, in addition to maintaining the existing routes, receive a further concrete counter-performance, on which they have a right, because the truck traffic has a lot more to do with the road traffic than the passenger cars, but also for the domestic labour market, this gap is of great importance. Especially in the previous debate on the economic situation, the importance of employment-effective measures has been highlighted in particular. I do not need to explain here what the gap in the high-level road network means for the Austrian labour market. The argument that the technical development has not yet been sufficiently matured is clearly rejected by foreign examples as well as in particular by the statements of the domestic electronics industry. I therefore call once again on all those involved to initiate the implementation of road pricing for trucks without delay! - Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e10023	The next speaker is Mr Anschober. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e10045	Mr President. Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Schwimmer told us about a "success story", about a success story of the major reforms in the construction sector in Austria, which the Building Committee decided last week, and the National Council – so Mr Schwimmer hopes, and I believe he is quite optimistic in itself that this will be realized – will be decided today. This "success story" concerns, first and foremost, the so-called ASFINAG-Neuwe and secondly, the so-called "reform of road construction companies". In contrast to this "success story", presented by Mr Schwimmer, the position of the Minister of Economic Affairs in the Committee was in fact the case. The Minister for Economic Affairs was, in his positively straightforward manner, clearly physically drawn by the compromises that have arisen in this area. And I can understand him. There are concepts of how to look for reforms, there are reasonable proposals from the Ministry of Economic Affairs, and then there is a running in the circle: Country interests, particular interests in the special societies, interests of individual construction lobbyists and and etc. To sum up, this is a piece of work that Mr Eder has now described as very true. There was nothing to hear from the "success story", as it was presented by the coalition partner, by the swimmer. What Mr Eder said about the ASFINAG new and the criticism of this ASFINAG new and the problem areas that were not covered and not reformed, I can only stress fully. That's reality. The great throw, which would have been necessary and which, for years now, everyone has been seeking – from the Chambers to the Court of Auditors, for example – has certainly not succeeded, for whatever reason. This must be clearly underlined. I think it was not the lack of will on the part of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, it was not the lack of will on the part of the Chamber of Labour, for example, but it has failed somewhere else. On the verge of the meeting of the Committee on Construction on Thursday, we have been able to follow very closely what it failed to do. That's where the papers came in: Landesrat – Colleague Eder quickly out to the phone! Mr. Landeshauptmann Schausberger again disagrees with an addition. . I now easily transfer, but not too much, Mr Eder. It has really been about the choice of words in detail formulations in areas where I ask myself: Is there some sort of policy still capable of action if one is so involved in lack of reform? A number of things have already been said about the special companies. There is also the same situation as in this work of ASFINAG-Neu, where the main criteria of convergence were in mind and where I am the only positive effect of the announcement by the Minister of Economic Affairs that, as far as the refinancing of this debt mountain of 78 billion schilling is concerned, he is in favour of closed cycles of account and therefore, in fact, seeks to achieve refinancing in the direction of the causer. This is basically a positive and correct step that we have always called for. As regards the special companies: This is also a piece of work. Although we had sought to reduce six to two societies, true – and this is no secret – is a completely different solution. In the medium term, it will have to be considered whether it is sustainable and useful in the medium term to deal with the area of public transport, the railway infrastructure and the remaining areas of road construction in a completely separate way, both organisationally and in terms of content. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The whole debate at the last meeting of the Building Committee and today's statements by Mr Eder have mainly concerned a further key issue, namely: Cost truth through road pricing in the truck area, yes or no? I believe that this is the central point of the debate, and this debate on the construction of a debate will also become a central debate on transport policy. The tools of environmental policy, transport policy and key economic policies are regulated here. I'd like to show you a little graphic that I made today. [[The speaker keeps a graphic up to date.]] If you are looking at the development of road freight transit in the EU, i.e. all transports through Austria that are subject to ecopoints, you can see that since EU accession we have had a drastic increase in the number of journeys by around 19 percent and, at the same time, an even more dramatic decline in the cost of truck transit by around 67 percent. Around 67 percent! I can still remember very well the promise given in the last discussions before the referendum on the accession of both coalition parties to the EU, namely that there will not be any approval and therefore attraction of the truck transit through Austria. – We all know the reality: 67 percent approval of the truck freight transit by Austria. This makes the competitive situation for the rail almost unbearable and chanceless, and thus we have environmental destruction and a reduction in the quality of life at the dumping price. In this situation, it is not possible to introduce a tax system for the truck, which at least compensates for this price drop – it is not at all an additional tax, but it is a compensation to ensure that there is fair, fair prices so that there is no cross-subsidisation of the truck traffic through passenger transport, because that is also a reality at present – to realize this inability of the current government, an actual compensatory factor, I think is unbearable. This will, of course, result in the costs continuing to explode. Mr Eder – and I now no longer understand the ÖVP in-house – has raised a real and important point in addition, namely that only if we consider the regulations of ASFINAG-Neu with the 50 percent clause et cetera, the road construction package required by most of the ÖVP leaders will be eligible for funding if it comes to this truck-road pricing. That is the absurd situation of this whole discussion. There are, on the one hand, the ÖVP national leaders calling for 35 billion schilling for new road connections, the so-called loopholes, and there are also parts of the ÖVP in the epaulment with the ÖAMTC, which for months, despite a corresponding parliamentary decision carried out jointly by ÖVP and SPÖ, vehemently opposes the creation of financing conditions for these wishes and the implementation of truck-road pricing. That's the absurdity of this situation! Thirdly, we have an economic minister who said in the Building Committee that in September we will continue to see if the interim report of the Negotiating Committee is available, and who, on my question whether he has no priorities as an economic minister, has meant that the House has no priorities, but should negotiate and see what is feasible and what the studies and surveys are doing. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The departmental staff in the Ministry of Economic Affairs should be consulted in detail, for they have known this sad story for a long time. Minister for Economic Affairs! I believe that for a decade or for a dozen years, studies have been being scrupulously and clean in the Ministry of Economic Affairs, and correct proposals are being put forward. Only: Why isn't anything happening? – Nothing happens because politics in this field is not operational for populist reasons. I repeat: It is not about car road pricing at all, but it is only about car road pricing. The price decline for trucks, which, of course, represents a huge cost factor for the economy as a whole, because the damage to the roads, the damage to the forest and the reduced quality of life must be taken out of their own hands by each individual citizen. This is the absurd situation, and there you have to stop when you hear statements like those of the Porr chief Pöchhacker in the public, who said clearly and clearly: If the 35-billion package, which is wanted by the countries and which is also negotiated by the Ministry of Economic Affairs, is to be implemented, and at the same time one does not realize the truck-road pricing, then one must multiply the vignette price. Minister for Economic Affairs! There is already an essential need for information. I expect you to clarify in this discussion: Is this statement by the Porr General Director and Vice-Chairman correct, and if so, what will it be like to multiply the price of vignettes? You have to give the public pure wine, because it is not only a matter of delaying for a few months and saying that in September there will be the Commission. [[Call to the liberals: Pöchhacker is not in the government!]] - I know he's not the Minister of Economic Affairs. It is not a pleasure for a minister of economics to come to the public with truths about how it would represent truck-road pricing or another driving power-dependent toll that would, of course, affect sub-areas of affected lobbies and cause their diswill. And now you make the "Austrian solution": The Minister of Transport does not say anything on the subject anymore, the Minister of Economic Affairs says nothing on the subject, we are creating a great Commission, as we are all inside, it is always being postponed by three or four months, there is a new Commission date. And what remains on the track in the meantime is the quality of life of the passengers of transit routes and are the ÖBB. - That's the second point. And the third point is the public budget in this country, because the public must nevertheless take care of the maintenance of the picturesque transport routes, although the causers do not pay for them. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would now like to make such a classic example as a request. This is a fact that was revealed by the Austrian Transit Forum a few weeks ago. We went to the National Council on 16 June. In the case of the new regulation – in the case of the very positive new regulation – the tolls on the burner are fixed at point 2 – I quote literally: "In both low-noise and low-pollutant trucks receive the tariff of category F reduced for ecological reasons only on the pre-sale of cards, where these tariffs may only be issued against the corresponding evidence. As low-pollutant, a truck with a COP value not exceeding 9 is currently defined; after the entry into force of the Euro 2 standard, this COP limit is reduced to 7." The Euro 2 standard has been since 1. ==References== Since then, it has been necessary to cut down, as stated in this resolution of the National Council. That is to say, since then there have been increased tariffs for the truck groups concerned, and nevertheless will be since this 1. In October 1996 the Republic of Austria generously waived these increased tariffs. The damage caused per day by the calculations from the surroundings of the state of Tyrol and the Austrian Transit Forum, especially by Fritz Gurgiser, who was behind these revelations, amounts to 1 million schilling. – 1 million shillings in tolls! And that in a situation where the transit truck prices are already in the basement anyway. In view of this budget, it is still generous to say: Well, this million is gifted, this million is worth putting on transit to Austria, I don't understand, and I think that's unacceptable. We are therefore proposing the following resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I think that is an absolutely realistic proposal. That is exactly what this House has already decided. This would prevent the Republic from continuing to receive a daily earnings of about 1 million schilling. Minister! I would like you to comment briefly on this request and tell us why, in your opinion, if there is detailed information, this million will not be implemented, because a million more in this federal budget bag would be quite positive, especially if it comes every day. The last point concerns the proposal for a resolution by Abfaltersbach. This too is from the construction area, and nevertheless it concerns a classical transit area. You already know the debate, especially in Tyrol. It has already been held several times in this House, including in the committee responsible. The Alemagna motorway from Italy via Austria to Germany is now officially abandoned. It is our fear that a series of extremely generous travel routes, which are not necessary in many areas at least in this dimension, will create the situation that a highway or motorway will be linked to each other and will also lead to a massive attraction of transit traffic. Our motion for a resolution, which stands here today for debate, therefore provides that both the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Minister for Finance be asked not to build the detour of waste or to make no money available for the construction. That is to say, no further heating of transit traffic, not even through detailed projects, which are trying to sell differently in the public. Mr Schwimmer, once again at the end of the debate: In my opinion, Austria's "success story" in this building area cannot be spoken of as you were sketched at the beginning. The concrete impact of transit traffic due to the inability of this government to implement concrete steps towards cost-truth in relation to the truck can be clearly documented with this graphics of truck traffic in the last three years: plus 19 percent, the price, the cost factor for the truck: minus 67 percent. [[The speaker shows a graphic]] That means we're definitely on the wrong path. This is not a "success story", but a story of failure. In our opinion, it is high time to correct these. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e10116	The motion for a resolution will be included in the debate and will be put to the vote at the end of this item on the agenda. The next speaker is Mr Ellmauer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e10141	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! "Austria creates the obstacle to the Euro loose" titled the "Kurier" on Friday, 4th. July, so last Friday. In its current audit of Austria, the International Monetary Fund has calculated the state deficit by 2.5 percent. This is certainly gratifying. However, this statement does not say anything about our real problem, the old debt. We're paying about 92 billion schilling this year on interest for these debts. That's almost every seventh schilling of our budget. Every schilling that can be saved and used for meaningful investments improves competitiveness and thus the economic or job location of Austria. It thus appears that saving and creating work can be closely linked. The system of time-dependent toll proved successful before the introduction. It restores scope for urgently needed investment in road infrastructure, investment that creates and secures jobs. The ASFINAG as the previous motorway and highway financing AG is becoming the ASFINAG new. As a holding company, it will form a group with the former federal road companies, which will be responsible for planning, construction and maintenance as well as management of the federal road network. Debts are outsourced. But it's more than this step. It is also, and above all, a functioning administration and an easier management of this area, which will deal with the planning of roads, the conservation, now also the management of these roads. The Infrastructure Finance Act implements these steps. In Article I of the ASFINAG Act, there are 77.9 billion schillings, which are due with the signing of the fruit contract and that of the declared claim against the Confederation of 31. 12. In 1996 the same amount was calculated. Article II sets out the business object, the financing, planning, construction and maintenance of motorways, federal roads and highways. Article III amends the BIG law and calculates claims of 5 billion schilling to the fruit right. Finally, Article IV deals with the amendment of the Rail Infrastructure Finance Act. With the current infrastructure financing law, we also decide to amend the Federal Property Act. So far, buildings and properties managed by the federal government are managed by the BIG in the future. This makes sense in many areas because it helps to reduce administrative costs. I would like to thank the Federal Minister Dr. Farnleitner for not disseminating the administration of the Keppler University in Linz. The country Upper Austria and the city of Linz have invested a lot in the University of Linz over the last decades. Upper Austria is the engine of Linz University – and should remain. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Novotny.]] On Article VIII, the Committee's report contains an important committee statement on the ASFINAG's work contracts with the federal states. The ASFINAG is known to conclude the works contracts with the federal states indefinitely. On the side of the ASFINAG, the contract is open for the first time for the 31st time. It is due to be terminated on 1 December 2006. The Committee would point out that negotiations between the Federal Government and the Länder must be opened immediately to remedy this problem if the countries were to have a proven and not foreseeable damage by restructuring the ASFINAG. Now a few words from the point of view of tourism to the vignettes: The introduction of flexible weekly vignettes, as now enshrined in the Federal Road Finance Act, is a necessary step in order not to burden guests with toll tariffs by way of a fee. The provision of a free annual vignette to the disabled, which is bound by the possession of a disability passport, also contains this bill, and it is welcomed by us. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Novotny.]] My group will therefore vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e10204	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e10225	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, you can look at every thing, every thing of two sides. There is a corresponding request from Mr Prinzhorn, who has a different view and access, other than that of some previous speakers, on the subject of road construction companies. Let me take a look back: In the past, there were six road construction subsidiaries whose number under Minister of Economic Affairs Schüssel was reduced to two, two which correspond exactly to the system that is typical in Austria: a red society and a black society. That is, not only divided into East and West, but also red and black, as is the case in many areas of our Republic. This is a proportional division, a supply area, as I mean, for political artists. These special companies also have special characteristics which are the following – I only remember the Pyhrn motorway, the A 4 –: There is a certain degree of scandalous threat from these societies. The corruption of corruption cannot be denied, in short: In connection with these special companies, they are simply expensive. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Due to the fact that the high-level road network is almost completed, the task assigned to these companies is to maintain or repair the road network, to manage it. We believe - and therefore this request - that this form of organisation, which has once been chosen for this area of responsibility, is indispensable. These road construction sub-companies must be dissolved. Previously, concepts to achieve greater efficiency and transparency have failed. We call for the tasks now to be carried out by these special companies to be transferred to countries so that, of course, appropriate resources are made available to them by means of financial compensation. The objective criteria for calculating this compensation are certainly not the problem that must be created, from the length of the journey to the volume of traffic on these roads. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The remaining competence of the road construction companies must be integrated into the Federal Road Administration. Mr Federal Minister, I would ask you not to close these arguments, which I have also referred to in the Committee, and the figures speak for themselves. This would also result in something very, very positive in the sense of budgetary truth. I will also give you the figures: The maintenance of one kilometer motorway through the Federal Road Administration costs 227 833 S; the special companies cost one kilometer 543 294 S. These figures speak for themselves. Considering that this is more than 1 208 kilometres in the field of special companies, it is noted that this results in an annual saving of 467 million schillings. I think that the figures actually speak for themselves. Federal Minister! They stated in the Committee that mountain roads in particular would ensure this difference and would justify the great difference in the management of these roads. I am telling you that is not the case. Make a comparison, for example, between the Karawankentunnel and the Tauerntunnel, with regard to one kilometer of travel, then you will conclude that this reason is ultimately unstoppable. Mr. Minister! I should like to ask you, at the time of the robbery, which is now planned to take place after Rust, to change existing structures. It is not just a matter of introducing measures in the sense of a budget beauty, a budget cosmetics, which, in fact, imposes a burden on the citizen, the taxpayer in turn, it is again being put in his pocket. It is not appropriate to do this – and only for the purpose of retaining power, because it is obvious that everything must be divided in this Republic so that these protected areas are preserved. That cannot be, and that therefore does not find our support. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[17:39]] Announcement of an application for the establishment of an investigative committee
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e10289	I declare that I have a further request for the setting up of an investigation committee, and that is what Members have to say. In accordance with Article 33 of the Rules of Procedure, the principal and comrades requested a committee of inquiry to examine the political and criminal responsibilities for the failure of the judiciary in the judicial investigations relating to the excessive settlement of the Karawanken motorway. There is also the request made by five Members to hold a debate on this request in accordance with the rules of business. As I have already announced that a debate on the Liberal Forum's request to set up an investigation committee after completion of the agenda will be held, debate and vote on this request for the setting up of an investigation committee will take place after the debate and vote on the request by Dr Schmidt and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. The next speaker is Mr Peter Marizzi. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e10325	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! – Mr. Anschober is now coming in. Mr Anschober, you have talked about crossings in East Tyrol. I talked to my colleague Tegischer. She talked to the people there and said, of course, people want to have a "soft" drive. For you is again so typical of this great reason: We're against these bypasses!, but once you go there and talk to the people like that when 5,000 to 6,000 cars and trucks don't donate through the towns, then you can't go from Upper Austria to East Tyrol country elections. Ladies and gentlemen! In my view, these current laws and amendments have three main objectives: financial, organisational and economic objectives. Mr Firlinger! These ASFINAG debts are transferred from a public area to a non-public area, of course also taking into account the convergence criteria. This, Mr Firlinger, creates own accounts, which also gives a better allocation. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: But they have not disappeared.]] I know that you do not like what the Federal Minister and the Coalition are proposing, but it is the step towards a group, and the Federal Minister - I must say this too - has worked very well, because to bring all these country interests into one's hat and create a harmony – we all know this, because we all have noticed what has come in from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, which is not that simple. The square of the circle cannot invent you either, Mr Firlinger. Perhaps it will be better for staff, employees' rights and collective agreements to bring them into a hat. But this is a second point, and it is essential: These laws, with these changes, also trigger investment for Austria's economic location. For example, the S 6 Semmering Tunnel can be built, investments on the A 2 such as the junction Klagenfurt are possible; many others have already been mentioned today, ladies and gentlemen. If I look at today's "press" article: "Dark outlook for the construction industry, massive decline in residential construction," one sees from it, I think that this is necessary. The Porr general director writes that the West motorway breaks down the drivers under the tires. Since, ladies and gentlemen, it makes sense to create a society that has the task of being a group, which operates new and operationally for this economic location in Austria. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: But we don't need a road construction company!]] – Mr Eder has already talked about the work contracts. I would also like to make some critical comments. It is not enough to change the name and transfer the debts to a new AG. And the not just famous start of the Vignette is from my point of view, Federal Minister, a clear mission for the new society. Maybe we'll get away from the church tower thinking. More service for the drivers – these are the taxpayers – and better construction site management are needed. I could now tell you stories from the last six weeks, what's happened on the South motorway. You're going to and fro every day, you know. I am also pleased, Minister of State, that you have taken relatively quickly and hard. This clear mission for this society should also mean a new image for society, and I think we are on the right track. I have already said that the Vignette has had a difficult start, but on the whole, ladies and gentlemen, it has calmed down a lot, and I am particularly pleased that there is a very acceptable regime for disabled people, which can be seen. It can be said that the Federal Ministries for Economic Affairs and Social Affairs have worked very efficiently and quickly. The second important solution, which Mr Peter said, but he does not agree, is flexibility in relation to the weekly vignette for which the start of validity can be freely chosen. I mean, this is also an important point for tourism in Austria. The last point: We all know that the car transport is actually subsidising the truck traffic – I say very salopp. Today, Mr. Anschober has shown a statistics – I think he has no reason to tell us something else here – because the billions are just so excited about it. Some talk about 10, others of 30 billion schilling. In a newspaper today, it says: "Economics on the decision against road pricing"; another from Saturday or Sunday says: "Kammer starts fighting road pricing." I repeat what I have said here: I was always against the road pricing for cars because I mean that if the vignette brought in 2 billion schilling and by a car road pricing 11 billion schilling, which would be a too heavy load for the drivers. This would only help the Greens politically. We would decide, and we would be politically hurt. That's what I'm saying quite openly here. But if the driver has to pay for all the truck sins and then stir up the chamber via "standard", then, ladies and gentlemen, I have to say, I am glad that in the autumn the report by Mr Farnleitner and Mr One will be available to see clearly how this truck thing and a justice goes on on the Austrian roads. To sum up, I would like to say: It is an important step towards reform for users, it is barrier-friendly and user-friendly. That is why I am very pleased to give this proposal for a law, which I very much support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e10378	Next speaker is Mrs Edith Haller. She's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e10402	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Elmecker has read so beautifully from the paper that he is satisfied with the vignette regulation and that it works well. [[Abg. Marizzi: Elmecker?]] – I can only say: We made fun of the introduction of the vignette. It was boldly written out, it was sloppy carried out, and not only with us, but also in Germany the waves have gone up. Not just that: We're on our way again... Ellmauer. [[Abg. Marizzi: The Elmecker is no longer in the National Council!]] [[Abg. Marizzi: "Elmecker" you said!]] Sorry! Ellwall. Not just that. We are once again making fun of ourselves, when it comes to freedom of toll in the border town of Kufstein, which, in turn, mainly concerns German guests. This is a geographical and transport-based particularly sensitive situation, for which a derogation is simply necessary. That's not going to be disputed either. Federal Minister Ditz promised her, but she was not regulated by law, it was simply not controlled, only tacitly tolerated. But on the German state territory, this toll freedom is widely announced on a huge panel, and all the tourists from Tyrol to East Tyrol advertise in their brochures with this toll freedom. – These prospectuses can throw them away, right? Nevertheless: We liberals have already made a three-time attempt to achieve a sustainable and ordinary legal regime, but we have never reached agreement with ÖVP and SPÖ, and today it seems to happen a fourth time with our request 431/A – and this, although there is a unanimous Tyrolean Landtags Decision of ÖVP, SPÖ, Free and Greens, that one wants to have a legal regime in this matter. Well, we liberals are accustomed to the fact that our requests in principle do not receive the approval of the government parties, no matter how serious the impact on the population. [[Abg. Murauer: Because these are not applications for acceptance!]] We are also used to it, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, that there will then come in the Committee washed-up motions for resolutions by the government parties, which even Federal Minister Farnleitner prescribingly referred to as "desirable to the Christkind". But the current haughtiness and arrogance towards the help cry of the Kufstein population is going on even further. This is where ÖVP delegates Kathi Horngacher is really trying to limit damage. She's trying to pull the emergency brake and formulate an all-party application. The application is logically the same as that of the liberals, it is only formulated differently and positioned differently. Of course, this request would also have found the support of our liberals, but now this statement by Mrs Horngacher has become a coalition question: It is not allowed to make this request, because we had a legal regime for Kufstein with four parties without the SPÖ. And if the Kathi will go down after me and possibly complain about the SPÖ, I have to say: Also the Tyroleans... [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Do you have a bad conscience?]] No, we don't. You must have it. The Tyrolean members of the ÖVP have also voluntarily entered this coalition, which has for a long time brought nothing good for the Austrian population. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz:... excellent work!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I ask you all who sit here to exercise your free mandate and to agree to requests for freedom of movement. I ask for your consent, because we will do something today: We shall put the request of the Kathi Horngacher here in plenary, because for us the whole is not a matter of formulation, but of the matter itself, and it would be no matter what request would then be approved. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP]] We will also call for a nameable vote to be taken. [[Abg. Schuster: That's good!]] I believe that this is in the sense of the matter, because I find it a very unpleasant feeling that there is simply a further disassembly of the ÖVP in this coalition government here on the back of the Tyrolean population and against the interests of the whole of the Tyrolean countryside. And that's not good for all of Austria. I should like to read again this amendment tabled by Mrs Kathi Horngacher and tabled by us now. [[Quoted print version removed]] I would like to ask you once again for your consent.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e10564	The amendment tabled by Mrs Haller is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Similarly, the demand for name-based voting is sufficiently supported. At the end of this item on the agenda, it is likely that the requested vote will take place by calling on Members. The next speaker is Mr Karl Freund. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e10595	Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The Infrastructural Finance Act also concludes a fruity contract between the Federal Government and the motorway and highway financing and share capital company. This contract states that the federal government, i.e. the Republic of Austria, owns and is entitled to use about 1,200 kilometres of federal highways and federal roads, as well as bridges, tunnels and mountain passes. With effect 1. January 1997 will be transferred to the ASFINAG the right of fruit to all basic areas, structural accessories and facilities which are part of these federal roads in accordance with § 3 of the Federal Roads Act 1971. The properties of the road maintenance service and the highway championships are also included. The ASFINAG remains 100 percent in federal ownership and is represented by the Ministry of Economic Affairs after the disbursement, as has been previously the case by the Ministry of Finance. In particular, the Federal Government grants the ASFINAG the right to collect user charges and tolls from all users of the transferred roads. Here in the National Council it was decided to introduce for all cars and trucks a driving power-dependent charge per kilometer on motorways, the so-called road pricing. On the other hand, there is the greatest resistance in the population, which I join. [[Abg. Haller: Right!]] Cost truth, however, must be sought. The vignette as a form of tax has proved its worth. It is not as Mrs Haller said it would have been a lot wrong. By the way, in her contribution to the debate, she did not say how to finance the motorways and move forward the necessary renovations, because depending on the system by which one installs a road pricing – but I have not heard about it from the colleague – different costs are mentioned. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: By the mineral oil tax!]] [[Abg. Meisinger: Mineral oil tax!]] [[further calls for tender for the liberals]] [[Abg. Haller: I've done this the last time!]] A fully electronic toll system would result in investment costs of at least 3.6 billion schilling and annual operating costs of 1.3 billion schilling, with an annual yield of 3.2 billion schilling. The ÖAMTC even speaks of around 10 billion schilling for investments and an amount of 1.5 billion schilling for annual operations. So far, no one can answer the question of how data protection should be guaranteed in such a system. According to ÖAMTC, there would be 50,000 misbookings each year each year on the southeast tangent in Vienna alone, which someone would have to correct. And let's be honest: Once the infrastructure is in place, then in a few years again we have the discussion about road pricing for the car, a discussion that certainly doesn't bring us on. The truck-road pricing solution would expect a massive shift in heavy traffic to the federal roads. This situation is already to be lamented, for example on Innviertler Fernstraße B 137 between Wels and Schärding. Foreign trucks, in particular, deviate from this federal road, as border controls at Schärding- Neuhaus are not as rigorous as in the motorway crossing Suben and there are long standing times to be expected. Transport safety would certainly suffer very much. The Minister for Transport must give an answer to this, because an increase in the number of victims due to the shift in heavy traffic from the motorway to the federal road would certainly be more accident-free than the safe or relatively safe motorways. Without accompanying measures, therefore, the situation on the federal roads with the truck-road pricing would be disastrous. I'm asking for a ban on trucks in transit on the B 137. The Minister for Economic Affairs reported in the Building Committee on revenue from the Tollvignette, which so far amounted to 1.3 billion schillings and could be used for motorway loopholes, in particular for important renovations on our motorways. Increased funds must continue to be used in future for renovations and motorway gap closures. With the new law, ladies and gentlemen, the Minister of Economic Affairs has the right to set targets and to carry out accompanying control. The adoption of the rules to be applied shall be reserved to him. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The loophole of motorways and the maintenance of our federal road system cost a lot of money; Money that is well designed to secure jobs and improve Austria's infrastructure. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e10678	The next speaker is Mr Kaipel. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e10700	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Experience with the Federal Road Finance Act 1996 has prompted us to prepare another novel that we want to decide today. In essence, we have already heard what innovations there will be. I'm allowed to repeat her for a while. The main content will be: the change in the duration of the weekly vignette, the improvement of the derogation for the disabled, the change in monitoring and punishment, and the exemption for by-cars in the case of single-track motor vehicles. From 1998 there will be the flexible weekly vignette. This also corresponds to the desire of the tourism industry. There will be no changes in the proceeds. However, I believe that this change will improve the acceptance of this pickerl. A further focus is on the disabled: For this there will be the vignette for free. The reference will be linked to the passport. This will undoubtedly create an increased administrative burden for our social offices, but a lower effort for the federal road companies. For the originally planned one-month vignette, there will no longer be the lack of reasonable cost planning, so that it will remain with the two-month vignette. As has already been said, the border regulation has also been deleted. The Federal Minister was asked by a resolution to prepare a constitutional and regulatory system. Unfortunately, the question of road pricing has not yet been clarified. A solution will be sought by autumn, and a solution will also be sought with regard to the passages withdrawn by the Constitutional Court. It is known that the current provision empowers the Minister for Economic Affairs to determine which roads should be run. For the Constitutional Court, it is not sufficiently clear what criteria this is to take place. Ladies and gentlemen! The SPÖ agrees that these concerns of the Constitutional Court will be approached and changes will be made. At the same time, however, we also support the removal of road pricing for passenger cars, which is still enshrined in the law. I believe and hope that this measure will put an end to the uncertainty of our counterparts. However, ladies and gentlemen, we will continue to stick to road pricing for trucks, as set out in the Convention, for reasons of cost-effectiveness, but also for reasons of reducing heavy traffic on Austria's roads to the most acceptable extent possible. It is necessary to introduce in Austria the same load per kilometre as in the surrounding countries, in order to avoid a certain negative suction effect for Austria. The Road Costs Directive, which we had to adopt with the accession to the European Union, has made a significant cost-saving for the truck so that these measures are justified. I think it is beyond dispute that the main cause of road damage is heavy traffic. Federal Minister! I can invite you to end the tradition of moving and speed up the preparations. On the one hand, we are responsible for the unnecessary burden on the environment and the population, on the other hand, revenue is essential for the maintenance and development of our roads. In addition, we also have the opportunity to provide a few thousand people with jobs. Although we will decide today, ladies and gentlemen, more or less small, but still important improvements to the Vignette regulation, I ask you to pursue the intention of bringing the kilometer-dependent toll for trucks under roof and compartment in autumn as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e10764	The next speaker is Mrs Katharina Horngacher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e10788	Mr President. High house! The history of Kufstein is a long-lasting one, and I have hoped that it will come to a good solution here and today. It is a part of the motorway from the border crossing near Kufstein, with the first exit at the border crossing; the second exit, Kufstein Süd, is four kilometers away. From the second descent the traffic goes to the ski area Söll, Ellmau, Scheffau and to the Brixental valley. Because of these four kilometers, no one will buy a vignette of course, and as a result, the departure traffic arises through the villages of the Lower Shame (xxx cf.) and passing through the city of Kufstein. With the introduction of the obligation of vignette, the then Minister of Economic Affairs Ditz, having convinced himself of the situation in Kufstein himself, has promised a factual derogation. Minister Farnleitner has further approved the commitment of Ditz. So far, the case has been held, and as far as I know, no one has been punished in this part of it. The table with the vignette announcement was only set up at the exit south. So it has also run without its own law for the four kilometers, but now Minister of Finance Edlinger has suddenly called this reasonable, simple exception into question. [[Abg. Dr. Krammer: He will have had a reason!]] As a result, a four-party application was unanimously decided in the Tyrolean Landtag last week, calling on all the national councils of Tyrol to set the legal framework and to anchor this small exception by law. Today, we wanted to put in a motion for an amendment that would have said: Motor vehicles using only the A 12 Inntal motorway between the State border and Kufstein South connection point are excluded from the toll obligation. – This would have met the unanimous wish of the Tyrolean Landtag. Unfortunately, the Social Democrats are not prepared to make this request with us. This is incomprehensible to me as a Kufsteiner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e10826	The next speaker is Mr Grossruck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e10847	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! If one considers the traffic scene in Austria not from the point of view of the statisticalians and not as a self-proclaimed or also recognized specialist, but as a normal consumer, as a so-called Otto normal consumer, then one must see the following: The West motorway is completely overcrowded. The car drivers can hardly use their tracks. At some times it's a spicy run if you want to drive from Wels to Vienna. The Brummis deliver competitions to each other, who can overcome the slowest, and driving becomes pretty slowly life-threatening, just as it happened to me last week when a Romanian truck broke a tire and I was able to slow it down with little effort. The motorways are therefore, if nothing happens, on the edge of the traffic infarction, and this development is also heading towards the Federal Roads. There it becomes particularly precarious, because these often also lead through arrant communities, through cultivated territory, through residential areas. Ladies and gentlemen! There are no patent solutions, there are no so-or-so solutions, there are no either or solutions, but only both solutions. In order to bring traffic to where it belongs, we need to introduce intelligent solutions: Road, rail, water as alternatives, transparency of costs and cost reliability. There are different models and proposals across Europe from which we can take the raisins out. But one thing is certain: We cannot insist on the status quo and say that we are satisfied with the road system we currently have. We need further expansion, we need further improvement of the road system in order to make the truck traffic liquid in order to obtain the individual traffic liquid. We need to draw up solutions to regulate, arrange and tolerable road transport. It is precisely this re-transition that will help the ASFINAG new ones to remove particularly neural jobs in Austria in the short term and to enable a long-term strategy in the development of road transport. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I only remember two projects in Upper Austria: the Pyhrn motorway and the West Tangente in Wels, which require urgent completion. Ladies and gentlemen! The desire to increase the tax on mineral oil can only be taken into account on a conditional basis. Because we know exactly when we collect too much taxes, consumers differ from alternatives. And today, with a truck the tank is often already bigger than the loading area. Why? – One tankes cheaply in the east and can therefore probably travel for months with a filling. That can't be the solution. We must offer different solutions. And here, I think, everyone is asked to work out appropriate solutions: not either or solutions, but both solutions. Federal Minister! I am referring to a problem which my colleague and friend Karl Freund has already mentioned, which is the elimination of transit traffic from scheduled motorways and highways on federal roads. Currently it is in Upper Austria in the area of the Innkreis motorway, because the finishes at the motorway site in Suben are carried out more rigorously and precisely than on the Bundesstraße. However, if road pricing for trucks is to be achieved, this trend is likely to become even stronger, therefore it is essential to take accompanying measures to prevent the deviation or deviation of truck traffic on accompanying federal roads. In addition to increasing the risk involved, the health burden of truck transport is also enormous when it rolls through the local area as transit traffic. I have here an expertise of the children's primary at the Grieskirchen Hospital, which he gave me yesterday and in which he notes that the number of patients with asthma and allergies is rising enormously by the heavy traffic that is also rolling through Grieskirchen. There are resolutions of the neighbouring communities that are going to move this heavy traffic exemplarily from the B 137 federal road to the Innkreis motorway. And such a thing is not only required by us in Tyrol, but, as I suppose, it will be the case throughout Austria. When we introduce road pricing, we must decide on accompanying measures so that it does not result in a deviation from cheaper traffic routes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e10918	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Second word. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e10939	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to refer once again to the amendment tabled by Mr Haller, and I say here clearly and clearly, on behalf of my group, that this amendment is, of course, taken very seriously. We have also discussed this amendment in the Committee on Buildings. I understand the situation of the population in Kufstein very well, but at the same time I would like to draw attention to the fact that, when we adopted the Federal Road Finance Act in April 1996, at the same time, we gave our approval to a motion for a resolution which had already gone in this direction, stating that the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs is being asked to carry out, in connection with the introduction of the high-level road network vignette in Austria, an examination of the transport effects on particularly sensitive routes, in particular a survey on the distance traffic on the lower-ranking road network et cetera. There are no final results to this survey, but there are already preliminary results which say that there is hardly any means of avoiding them and that most of those who have a vignette also use them accordingly. Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, there are other regions where, when the Schengen Agreement comes into force, such situations could arise. I am thinking here, for example, of the A 14 Rhine Valley motorway, where there could be a similar situation between the State border and the Bregenz connection point. I therefore believe that it would be sensible and reasonable today if we did not decide to set aside individual exceptions, whether with a national vote, but would ask the Minister of State to examine by autumn all the bodies which could be considered under the Schengen Agreement to be defined as an exception accordingly. I would also ask that, if this study on the circumferences created by the vignette introduction were finally on the table, we should discuss it in a building committee and consider what we can do here in a reasonable manner. I do not hide that it will be very difficult to make exceptions in this form in individual areas, then also in Vienna, to explain why a car driver from 3rd to 11th. District travels one or two kilometers over the southeast tangent, one needs a vignette, and the other does not. On the tangent, ladies and gentlemen, 120 000 cars are driving every day, and that is a different traffic burden from that which is often spoken of here. I can therefore only recommend that we reject the amendment tabled by Mrs Haller today on the basis of these considerations and considerations. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e10978	The Federal Minister has spoken. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e11000	Mr President. High house! I have been asked by ladies and gentlemen on a number of points, which I would like to briefly answer. First of all: The current ASFINAG solution is a major step forward for me in one point: The ASFINAG excludes a number of debts that have nothing to do with pure road construction, so that in any decision that we have to make in the future in the direction of debt management, debt repayment, we can more easily carry out a 'polluterial' arrangement. Secondly, The works contracts addressed several times here are, in part, the attempt to keep the service work carried out by national servants in this circle as well. It will be checked at a later stage by tendering – and this will be the case at the earliest about 2006 – whether this is also the most favourable solution within the meaning of EU competition law. Third point: In the government template, I proposed to release all border crossings until the first departure, Kufstein until the second, for reasons of §§7 and 7a of the Federal Road Law, as well as in the case of Bregenz. I believe that, after the discussions in the Committee on Budgets and the understandable difficulties that have arisen there and there, the request for a solution in accordance with the rules of procedure is reasonable. I will forward this request to Parliament through the Council of Ministers in the early autumn. We will then also have the results of the circumvention investigation of several border crossings so that we can operate with better reason. The fourth point concerns road pricing. High house! There is a Council of Ministers decision which expects a report from a group under Minister One and me by September. This report shall be properly completed and submitted in good time. Finally, Mr Hofmann referred me to the question. There is the principle difference that we have about 3 per cent of a tunnel and 8 per cent of a bridge in the maintenance service in order management, while we have 11 to 15 per cent of the special companies. This makes a significant difference with regard to costs. In total, however, we will have to do so by constantly persuading that an excess of organisations – including in the area of the ASFINAG Group – can be reduced as quickly as possible. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e11040	Thank you, Minister of State. Mrs Haller has now come to speak. Second word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e11064	A brief replica to Mr Eder's words: His speech showed, above all, that he did not know the situation in Kufstein at all, and secondly, that the possibility of review as mentioned by him and also the reference to a solution in conformity with the rules of procedure are only excuses in order to push the matter out. [[Abg. Marizzi: Why?]] Please, Mr Marizzi, explain to me how to check the impact on a secondary road network if this flow does not take place on the secondary road network at the moment. How would you like to review this, Mr Marizzi? Explain this to me, please!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e11102	The next speaker is Mr Deputie Swimmer. Second word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e11123	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! A clear word: Of course, there is full understanding for the situation Kufstein: However, Kufstein is not the only border crossing that has such problems with the motorway toll. With the same right, the Vorarlbergers can come with the motorway crossing Bregenz, the Salzburgers can come. A total solution is necessary. I promise, on behalf of my group, that we will take action to ensure that, in the sense of the joint motion for a resolution tabled by SPÖ and ÖVP, this overall solution will be adopted in autumn.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e11154	Now I'm not going to have any further words. The debate is closed. I ask you to take the seats. We shall proceed to the votes taken separately between the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 828 of the supplements. Mr Haller and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment here. There is also a desire for a name-named vote, which is sufficiently supported. I shall therefore vote first of all on the part of the amendment concerned in a natural vote and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Mrs Haller has tabled an amendment to Article V, paragraph 8, paragraph 7. 1 refers. As I have already said, a nameable vote is taking place which I will carry out in the way that Members are called in alphabetical order and that the vote from the square of Members takes place orally. For the purpose of the vote, I ask you to take the places and answer them loud and clear by name. I would like to ask those Members who vote in favour of Mrs Haller's request to reply with 'yes' only to those who vote against it with 'no'. Repeating the vote of the honourable Member will add clarity about voting behaviour. If a Member is not present, this will also be held. I'll start with the name call.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e11223	Thank you. – The vote has ended. In order to determine the outcome of the vote, I am now interrupting the sitting for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e11253	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote as follows: 160 votes were cast, of which "Yes": 53, No votes: 107. This rejects the amendment tabled by Mrs Haller on Article V.8.7. The names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. With "Yes", the Members voted: Anchoon, apple beck, aumayr; Blünegger, Böhacker, Brauneder; Dolnschek; Förlinger; Gaugg, Count, Gredler, Grollitsch, Haidlmayr, Haigermoser, Haller, Haupt, Hofmann, Horngacher; Young; Koller; Lammer, Langthaler, Luke; Madl, Meischberger, Meisinger, Mentil, Moser Hans Helmut, Moser Sonja, Motter; Nut trees; Of which: Peter, Petrovic, Platter, Povysil, Prinzhorn, Pumberger; Reichhold, Rosenstingl, Rossmann; Salzl, Schaffenrath, Scheibner, Schmidt, Schöggl, Schweitzer, Stadler, Stoisits; Trattner; Van der Bellen; Wabl, Wenitsch. With 'No', the Members voted: Ablinger, Achs, Amon, Antoni, Auer, Bauer Rosemarie, Bauer Sophie, Binder, Brinek, Brix, Buder, Bures; Cap; Dietachmayr; Eder, Edler, Ellwall; Fector, friend, frieser, fox; Gaal, Gartlehner, Gaßner, Grabner, Gradwelt, Großruck, Guggenberger, Gusenbauer, Hagenhofer, Heindl, Hlavac, Höchtl, Hums; Jäger, Jarolim, Kaipel, Kammerlander, Kampichler, Karlsson, Kaufmann, Doppelmüller, Kiermaier, Kiss, König, Konrad, Koppler, Kostelka, Krammer, Herbs, Kröll, Kukaka, Kummer; varnishes, leekams, leiners, leaks; Maier, Maitz, Marizzi, Mertel, Mock, Morak, Mühlbachler, Müller, Murauer; Niederwieser, Novotny, Nürnberger; Oberhaidinger, Onodi; Perfuss, Parnigoni, Pittermann, Posch; Rada, Rasinger, Rider, Riepl; Sauer, Schieder, Schrefl, Schuster, Schwarzböck, Schwarzenberger, Schwemmlein, Schwimmer, Seidinger, Sigl, Silhavy, Spindelegger, Stampler, Steibl, Steindl, Stippel, Stumpful; Tegischer, Tichy-Schreiter, Drinkl, Tychtl; For the purposes of this Regulation, Wallner, Wicker, Worm, Wormitzer; Zweytick.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e11424	I shall immediately vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report and ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to the version of the law within the meaning of the Committee's report to give a sign. – This is decided by a majority. We are therefore voting on the remaining parts of the draft law, including title and receipt, as amended by the Committee's report, and I should also like to ask for a sign here in the event of approval. – I notice: Decision-making shall be by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also agree to the draft law at third reading to give a sign on this point. – The draft law was adopted by a majority in third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Anschober on the three-digit reduction of toll revenue, the reduction of the COP limit for reduced toll tariffs. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree with the motion for a resolution to give a sign. The motion for a resolution does not have the majority, it is therefore rejected. We shall also vote on the request of the Building Committee to take note of its report in 829 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of taking note of the report of the Committee on Construction and Cooperation. – This is decided by a majority. We shall also vote on the request of the Building Committee to take note of its report 830 of the supplements. Here, too, I may request a sign of approval. – This is the majority. The report in 830 of the Supplements has been largely taken note of. We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution annexed to the Committee Report 830 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to vote in favour of this resolution to give a positive signal. . The resolution, which is annexed to the report 830 of the Supplements, has just been adopted by a majority. (E 68.) We shall vote on the request of the Building Committee to take note of its report 831 of the supplements. In case of consent, I ask for a sign. . The report 831 of the Supplements has been taken note of. Finally, we are voting on the request of the Building Committee to take note of its report 832 of the supplements. Here, too, I may request a sign of approval. . The report of the Building Committee in 832 of the Supplements has been taken note of by a majority. These are the items on the agenda. 7. Point Report of the Financial Committee on Request 486/A by Dr Andreas Khol, Dr. Ewald Novotnyand comrades concerning a Federal Act on the disposal of shares of Bank Austria Aktiengesellschaft (814 of the Supplements) 8. Point Report by the Financial Committee on Amendment No 487/A by Dr Ewald Novotny, Dkfm. Dr. Günter Stummvolund comrades concerning a federal law amending the Nullkuponfonds Act (815 of the Supplements) 9. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (736 of the Supplements): Privatisation Act (818 of the Supplements) 10. Point Report by the Financial Committee on Amendment 204/A (E) by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Thomas Prinzhornand comrades concerning the renewal of the Federal Law of 26 June 1989. ==References== ==References====External links== No. 81/1947 (816 of the supplements) 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report by the Financial Committee on Amendment 293/A (E) by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Thomas Prinzhornand comrades concerning the rapid privatisation of state-owned companies and business units (817 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e11606	We are now going to Agenda items 7 to 11. The debate is under one. The rapporteur has not been made aware of me, so the report is missing. Mr Magistrate has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Trattner. The speaking time is set to 8 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e11633	Mr President. Mr. Minister of Finance! High house! This item on the agenda is about the upcoming privatisation of the federal shares in Bank Austria in the order of 18.87 percent. There is a need to address the history of the past, in so far as at the end of 1996 there was a decision here in the National Council that the Federal Shares in Bank Austria should be sold to post-equipment holding because we wanted to make ourselves credible that this institution is precisely predestined to sell this stock package widely. ==References== In the course of the debate on the sale of the CA shares to the Bank Austria, there was a meeting between the S & D Party and the Austrian People's Party. It was established that this part of the federal government, this stock package, which is parked or parked for recovery at the post-equity administration, was until 31. 12. In 1997, it was to be sold out. ==References== In the plenary session, there was a decision on the rapid sale until 31 December. 12. ==References== Now we have July 1997! Half a year has passed, and nothing has been done at all, nothing has happened at all. Now it is clear that this post-equity management is not the appropriate instrument to sell this stock package, it is to be sold again to a consortium, a consortium that may consist of banks, private investors and so on. For half a year nothing has happened, and now it is to be sold quickly under time! Here are two things: ==References====External links== 12. ==References== At this time, there was an amendment to the Committee's proposal, in which, with the agreement of the Federal Government, a so-called period-limitation was granted until 31. 3rd. In 1997, the Commission approved the Commission's Mr Novotny! I don't know, is there another amendment now? They say, according to "Kurier" of today, that by the end of March the sale would not have to be completed but led into the way. Is there another amendment to the amendment tabled by the Committee? What is the current procedure? – To lead in the way, that can mean a lot. It can also be said that I am printing a prospectus to put it on the market. But that can't be the procedure! Furthermore, this request does not contain any reference to the price at which it is sold. Now it is sold at a price at which the post-holding shareholder bought the stock package from the federal government, namely by 4.5 billion schilling. This is now sold to the consortium at the same price, and the consortium is then obliged or not obliged to sell these shares at the best possible price; the Federation comes in. For the benefit of the so-called "performance certificate". Now you put in a so-called "between station" again. Mr Novotny! You have also criticised this in the Committee by saying that this can cause additional costs of 300 million schilling. Only the transaction from the post-equipment company to the consortium will cause costs – I give you absolutely right! In the meantime, the post-equipment holding of this stock package had to be financed by another third-digit millions of foreign financing costs. And in view of that, you want to make it credible here that this postal investment company is the crucial and right instrument to carry out such privatisation. This also meant that the then Minister of Finance would make us credible in the Committee or here in the House. This is a process that is completely unforgivable. No transaction costs are disclosed here at all: You don't even know how high the financing costs are. I do not think that those who have been mentioned in the Committee are, I think, too low. But something else can happen: The consortium is not obliged to sell these shares at a certain price, but the consortium can say that we are also unable to sell this stock package, we continue to sell it at the same price as we received it from the federal government or from the post-equity holding company. However, the other consortium is no longer obliged to issue a certificate of improvement to the federal government. That's not a procedure! What's planned here? Who's to buy the stock package? Are there any sales negotiations already? Are there already interested parties? Is there an Austrian interest in that sense, or is there again, in about the WestLB behind that which wants to buy this stock package? And if someone wants to buy the whole package, I wonder: Is there a package surcharge or does it not exist? Is it intended to sell it through the stock market as possible, or not? These are things that must finally be clarified here! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Finanzminister! I cannot imagine that you are happy with this procedure. You will not be happy with this procedure because you are likely to achieve a very low yield because you cannot control it at what price these shares are actually sold in the final effect. You will not be able to verify or influence – if you do, but do not influence – how much the transaction costs will be, and of course you will not be able to influence the amount of financing costs from post-equipment holding, because you do not have this influence, as it has been refinanced. Is it via Barerlag, has it been financed by foreign currency, is there a price risk, yes or no? That is why our criticism is coming! Privatization, yes, but under those conditions under which you want to carry out privatisations, you may add a million-height damage to the Austrian federal budget and especially to your budget that you are responsible for. They want to go here now and say that we are rather abandoning a few hundred million schillings, but for that we are reducing the construction savings. That's not a procedure!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e11701	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Novotny. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e11722	Mr President. High house! The policy has been severely shocked by some media for today's bill, and I regret to say that, in part, it is right! [[Abg. Haigermoser: In the truest sense of the word: Schooled!]] The starting point is a political agreement in connection with the sale of the CA, according to which, by the end of 1997, the federal share of the CA, as it is there, is to be sold widely through the stock exchange. It has now been shown that it is not economically possible to sell at an adequate price, in this relatively short period of time, this relatively large stock package by this date, because we still have a number of large transactions to be expected on the stock exchange this year or in the coming semester, not least in connection with the First Austrian and the Giro Centrale. The smartest thing would have been to say: We stand by the original agreement, but the date as such is adjusted accordingly. That was, unfortunately, politically unenforceable – I say this quite openly – so that it has now been agreed to transfer these federal shares to Bank Austria within a certain time, provided that they cannot be sold by post-holding, to another holding company or to another carrier, which then has to resell these shares. This, of course, entails costs and certain risks, which cannot be denied objectively. We have also discussed this and, I say quite openly, we have not finally signed this request in a light heart, for two reasons: Firstly, it was possible in this way to achieve certain improvements compared to the original version, i.e. to achieve a certain degree of greater flexibility. I would also like to stress that this has also happened in cooperation with colleagues who have shown more economic thinking than perhaps some others. Secondly, I believe that we should all be concerned about the fact that, at last, we are the Bank Austria and therefore the Austrian credit industry, so that the Austrian capital market can come out of the day-to-day political events. And that was also a reason for us to have agreed to this request because we believe that it is bad for the whole Austrian economy when political discussions over and over again start at relatively short intervals. High house! Finally, I would like to add something. The fact that it is not possible to sell all the Bank-Austria shares by post-holding by the end of this year, which is widely distributed, should not exclude the fact that post-holding is trying to pass on as much as possible during this period, and only for the rest that cannot be sold in this way, should or must be chosen the more expensive way through the second consortium. I believe that the opportunity should be used here, which has now been extended by a further quarter of 1998, and which corresponds to the will of the legislator if it succeeds in making binding, firm agreements in this first quarter. The practical and technical implementation has not yet to be carried out. In any event, the first efforts to achieve a meaningful and widespread sale related to Austria should continue to be made by post-holding, and, as has been said, only to the extent that this is not possible should the second route decided today be applied. In this sense, today's presentation is certainly not the best solution, but it is a compromise that we have reached, and I have also explained the reasons why we stand in this present form on this compromise. However, I would like to add that I very much hope that we will soon be able to put this area of politically motivated fixations behind us and to do so in this very sensitive area of the money and credit economy. I hope we can follow this path in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e11760	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Peter. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e11781	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Everything was so beautifully planned from the street in the background, former Deputy Mayor Mayr: We are building around the municipality of Vienna, which must always be red, because it is almost a habit, a large economic group that we always have to influence. All of a sudden, things are moving, and all of a sudden, what you have developed as a power center becomes a burden. Today we are so far to the point that Professor Novotny, who is really red in the wool, tells us that we have to get Bank Austria out of the day-to-day political events. Dear Professor Novotny! Have you finally heard that the state for a bank is the worst of all possible owners?- Oh, my God! Because as soon as the state is the owner, politics speaks in, and that's exactly the point. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Only the state is not the owner of Bank Austria!]] – Yes, yes, you can now discuss it for a long time. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: These are the facts! You can't talk about that! That's the facts! I ask you to see the facts!]] Good. I see the facts: The AVZ still belongs to the 40 percent. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Novotny.]] I know that, but that is the political influence. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: This is a special asset!]] You know what I mean. - He wants to split my hair. There are few there, Professor! There's nothing to split. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: That's why I'd rather not do it!]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Learned late, Mr. Peter! Very late!]] Who learned later, Mrs. Fekter? [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: You were in favour of this instrument...!]] We were of the opinion that Bank Austria belonged to the same private sector as CA. The integration of these two institutions has undoubtedly been a real step, but it should not develop into a new social democratic centre of power, but into an economic body, to a bank that is private in economic terms, in which the Director-General must not stop and think why politics is interfering in his business. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Austrian, please don't forget!]] That's the real point. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] It's all about this again and again: Where the blacks have influence, they do not leave their fingers out, and where the reds have it, they do not leave their fingers out. Leave your fingers out of business! Concentrate You are committed to setting a framework for the economy, but don't always mind! That's the problem. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Where the blacks have the opportunity – you still have a few possibilities – they do not leave out the reins. Perhaps you can still put someone down, occupy an office politically, and the reds do it the same way. And today, Professor Novotny says that the bank must be kept out of day-to-day policy. It is then to be kept out when you privatize it at the right time, but not under time pressure. It's nonsense to privatize them under time pressure. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: She's supposed to be Austrian! That is the crucial point!]] You know, she's supposed to be European. Because if we have a European internal market, if we have a European capital market, if we have a European economy, if we have a European financial policy, then it is about European capital. Finally, stop your borders, with your scams that you have in front of the brain! [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: The scumbags are the jobs for Austria, I really like to take them!]] You know, capital has no mesh, and you have jobs if you can offer a good economic location good yields. But you can't pray for jobs as you do. Jobs can be created through performance, good conditions and competitive economic location, but not through parliamentary sayings. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: You're right, that's why I said that too! The argument is well led, you'll probably admit that!]] We therefore have one word in front of us, one of the most scrutinous laws, which is based on the fact that two parties, which seem to have distrusted each other in such a way that they no longer trust each other in the way. They now seriously want to put a company, an economic company of almost one-fifth of the shares in Austria's largest bank under time pressure with regard to privatisation, and to supply it with all kinds of camels. But they forget one thing: Among the more chewing I put privatization, the harder it becomes for the potential owner to acquire it. The faster that has to be done, the lower the price. They simply destroy and seize popular wealth. That is to say, the proceeds of the state's previous property are reduced by diletantic privatisation. That's the point, and that's unfortunate. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] What we in Austria decide on all the laws, the economists of other civilized states laugh at them and say that there is no such thing as what is being decided in this Austrian Parliament. We are ridiculous in the international financial markets with the laws you submit here. I know that Mr Stummful She's been driving and kicking. Willingly, he didn't do it. Mr. Stumbling! Admit it! [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Please go!]] I know that a Christian may lie because God is also kind, one can finally confess, as Mrs. Klasnic lets us know. But still: That's the point here. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: Steps, driven, what are those formulations?]] Mrs. Bauer! It is just as unfortunate because otherwise such nonsense could not come to Parliament. It is a shame that is being decided here in Parliament. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: What is this vocabulary?]] The second point is the Privatisation Act. This is about something very similar. This is the law of distrust between the coalition parties, which no longer want to trust in the way and influence privatisations. Firstly, the Federal Government must agree, then we have an amendment, the Federal Government no longer has to agree, it is sufficient for the Minister of Finance and the Minister for Economic Affairs, because the two will then be careful. This is the path of a federal government that does not trust each other. From this point of view of privatising state property will lead to worse successes and worse returns. They actually have an instrument in their hands, the ÖIAG, which has proved itself fantastically in recent years. I hope it will not be restricted in its effectiveness. The sale of Saline has worked, tobacco Austria should also work. I hope the law will not be too negative on it. A few remarks to the zero coupon fund law. The Minister for Finance has become much easier today in his budgetary problems. First he has distributed ASFINAG, now the second part of creative accounting comes. I know the EU tells you that you are so happy to do it because it tells you the EU. [[Federal Minister Edlinger: This is not a disadvantage! Increase better than tax!]] No, no, I'm not saying that either. I just keep my path to camera-listics away from an comprehensible state income calculation and success calculation as unfortunate. It is an EU regulation that we must bow to by harmonisation, otherwise the values within the states are not comparable. I shall vote in favour of this point and reject the other points with real regret – with the regret that such a thing can at all come to the Austrian Parliament.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e12029	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Stummful. He's got the word for 8 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e12050	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In the short term, three points: The first point on my previous speaker, Mr Peter. Mr Peter! You know that I highly value you as a successful and skilled hoteler. I would like to admit that even as a politician, you have made better speeches than the current ones. I would just like to address one point in the sense of the historical truth of the last few months. You and the Liberal Forum have agreed here in this House in January that the state-owned largest bank of the country buys the state-owned second largest bank of the country. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schaffenrath.]] Today, however, go You come here and explain loosely: Well, if the state's somewhere owner, it's politicalization. With your voice in January, you have contributed to this concentration of power, Mr Peter! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It was really a remarkable salto that you have beaten here today, but once again I respect you as a successful hoteler, and as a politician I wish you that your next speeches will get better again. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Peter]] You've made better speeches here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] Secondly, ladies and gentlemen: I agree with my colleague, Mr Novotny, and you – and once again we agree, Mr Peter, only did you act differently in January, and you must be allowed to do so – agree that today's decision-making is an important step in bringing the country's largest bank out of the negative political headlines. Because it's quite right: As soon as the state is the owner, the question arises who exercises the ownership rights of the state, and the danger of politicalisation is, of course, always immanent. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Don't have to, but if you want it! Responsible policy does not do it!]] – It must not be, but it is immanent, Mr. Novotny. That is why I am glad that the largest bank in the country with this step we are taking today, this objective, out of the political headlines, is moving a step closer. This is also a very important step for the entire money and credit system in Austria, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. For the construction itself: I would like to admit that the regulatory objectives we have pursued with this law – first of all: Privatization; second: at a certain time, since it was already in the Coalition Pact, in the CA Pact and in March 1988 the half legislative period is around, I like to admit that; third: at a certain minimum price; fourth: with the issue of the widest possible scatter on the stock market; fifth: with as much yield as possible for the federal government – almost the square of the circle are. It would also have been impossible for Post-Holding – which is the crucial point – to actually meet these five points, minimum price, time and and so on. Therefore, we have to choose this construction, a two-phase model. The Post-Holding – I think that is realistic – can meet the goal of finding a consortium or a money and credit institution that takes over the stock package by the end of the year or, if the Federal Government agrees, by the end of March at a certain purchase price. This transferor is then called in the second phase – for this there is no time-limit – to ensure as wide a scatter as possible on the stock exchange, of course also under the observation of the market; therefore, this two-phase model. That's quite right. But I would like to admit that the involvement of a consortium or of a money and credit institution which takes over this function of course costs something. No one takes up a function in the economy without having to pay for this function. But I would prefer, Mr Peter, to pay for this function and to achieve the five objectives that I mentioned earlier, namely privatisation at a specific date and a price as high as possible, a minimum price for post-holding, the widest possible distribution on the stock exchange and a high yield for the federal government, which is at least to be paid back to the federal government. That, ladies and gentlemen, was the meaning of this construction. [[Abg. Böhacker: So the square of the price!]] [[Abg. Ing. Trattner: You don't believe that anymore!]] This is a process that is quite common in the economy, in money and in the credit sector, Mr President. Take a look around! If you want to achieve the above objectives, you have to choose a construction like this. In fact, there was no alternative to this construction, ladies and gentlemen, dear! It must be so realistic to recognize this. But again: There is great progress today – and I am convinced – that we will increasingly bring out the largest bank in the country and thus our entire money and credit system from the political day-to-day discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e12145	Mr Van der Bellen spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e12166	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dr. Stumbling! As has already been announced in the Committee, I am absolutely not your opinion today. We have here three proposals – two own-initiative proposals, one government template – of which we need one as urgent as a crook – that is the one concerning the sale of Bank Austria – a proposal goes well – that is the zero-coupon fund law – and the third is sailing under a false name: Instead of privatization law one should call it "absurdity law" or something similar; I'll come back to it then. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] As far as Bank Austria is concerned – in order to make it short, there have already been many arguments –: I think the deadline is absurd, no matter if that's the 31st. ==References== March is, that doesn't change much. Secondly, The award of a consortium does nothing but cost. We already have a special purpose vehicle, as the then Finance Minister and current German Chancellor Klima called it: the Post-Holding. Everything that this consortium can do can do, too. It is humanly identical to the ÖIAG-Gesellschaft, which has often brought such transactions to the stage sufficiently satisfactory. We don't need the consortium. This part runs beyond an Investment Bank Funding Act, and we will carefully monitor whether the consortium will be a red and black composite. [[Abg. May. Peter: That's what I'm going to do!]] – I assume that it will be composed red-black, yes. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. stupid.]] Thirdly, I can only be surprised that the objective of privatization is taken so important for itself and that it is completely wretched to whom this consortium will sell. Personally, I do not care who the owner or the owners of the largest bank in Austria will eventually be. I am particularly incomprehensible about the attitude of the EIAs in this context. You have also rightly – I am right to stress – complained about the opaque ownership structure of Bank Austria, namely the AVZ, a structure that basically detests the law of shares. You have also sued the pre-purchasing right of the Westdeutsche Landesbank. Just have one more time. She complains of the power of Director-General Randa and even demands his resignation – you, the ÖVP, not the Greens or anyone else. And now you are buying that through a broad privatisation over the stock market, of course, what happens to public companies is that the board of directors of the company has more power than before than it was faced with nuclear shareholders. I think you're going to give up on the last clear owner Bank Austria still has. That's gonna stop if you want it from a liberal point of view, unfortunately, the Federation. I personally refrain from "feeler". I say this is the last clear owner that Bank Austria still has, and I would like to keep it as long as the AVZ structure is as unclear as it is at present. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It would therefore be right to delete this law, which is available today, without replacement and to focus all efforts on the cleaning of the AVZ structure. I know that's very complicated. It is not legally clear how this is to be regulated at all. This takes time, but the effort should be directed there – keyword: political occupation of the Sparkassen Council, keyword: Identity between Bank-Austria Board and AVZ Board, keyword: The rights of the Works Council and, of course, how and, above all, to whom these shares should then be sold. I would have thought that all these are subjects, but the Social Democrats are touching on the basis of their hearts. Because of this painful agreement of January 1997, they have agreed to heavy heart and teething, and I must say: I can imagine how such negotiations were conducted and how they ended in January. There you sit until five o'clock early and is healy when you get something done, and then the signature is put down. But five months have passed since then, and one could have failed in this. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: Would you not comply with agreements?]] - That's right. But one can be consensually failed – agreeable. They have insisted that this nonsense is passed through. Secondly, The amendment of the zero coupon fund law is all right. Thirdly, Privatisation law – this is even worse than the bank-austria law. This privatisation law is really unique. I can't remember that there is already a law in this House, which is a bar of any material content. This law has no material substrate at all. I would be interested in what our Presidents say about whether this could be a matter of law at all. These are procedural provisions only if you wish to be a sort of Rules of Procedure which the Federal Government is giving itself. Please give these Rules of Procedure, but why was it wasting the precious time of Members? It does not prevent them from dealing with such principles. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Peter.]] Why do we need a law to do this? – I don’t want to do this in detail now, but it’s nice to imagine politics in the future. For example, Article III concerning postal services. First, the Executive Board has to draw up a privatisation concept, then it has to deal with its Supervisory Board, well, then, if one wants to think, he goes to the General Assembly – far missing. Before that, the Minister of Finance must obtain the approval of the Federal Government for this concept, so that he can go to the General Assembly. The General Assembly is none other than the Minister of Finance itself – in this case, not so in other cases. In other cases, the General Assembly is different. Finally, before the award is made to a bidder, unless it is made via the stock exchange, the Federal Government must again agree. So it was in the old law, but this has been changed in time in the course of "flexibility". Now, again, only the General Assembly is responsible, but in this case it is composed of Finance Ministers and Economic Ministers. We should be grateful to God if these two ministers were not to be red and black one day, because then we would have to amend this Rules of Procedure. If you really want to decide that, then I would half propose that you call this law different. Instead of "privatisation law" – the choice I release to you, I also waive a formal application in this matter – I would like, for example, "self-blocking law", self-blocking between SPÖ and ÖVP. I would also like "Political Prevention Act". It would also be nice to find a short formula for this, I leave you. Then I thought of something else, which would also be very true: Law on the Violation of the Anger and Self-Accurrence of the ÖVP to have authorized the Minister of Finance to sell the CA. – Since we all know that such titles are too long, this law gets a short name, and this is "the law of trust and self-payment", because that is the background of the whole. [[Congratulations and cheerfulness with the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] Finally, what Mr Peter has already suggested would also be excellent: the "distrust declaration law", because that is the background – the one-other mistrust of the government parties, the government partner, who cannot therefore fail to be given a legal basis for their procedural rules by the National Council. Ladies and gentlemen! As a matter of fact, I think it is a abuse of Parliament to deal with such Rules of Procedure within the Federal Government. For if the school does that now, so to speak, because of each egg food, it is a law with which Members have to deal, namely, when who has to agree as why and how many, then the fun stops! Then the absurdity, the absurdity of this so-called privatisation law would immediately become clear. That is why my last proposal for a title for this law: "Federal Law on the Consultation of the National Council with Absurdities (Absurdity Act)". Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e12249	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Merchant. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e12270	Mr President. Minister! High house! I'm referring to the privatisation law. Alternative titles have now been proposed several, but as always this law may be called: In fact, it is a matter of establishing a procedure; a procedure for dealing with privatisation in this Federal Government and in conjunction with the National Council. It will not force privatisations, nor will it prevent privatisations. It's a law that sets out a procedure. If we now decide on a law which precisely defines a procedure for this privatisation, it should also be an opportunity for us to discuss the objectives of this privatisation and perhaps also the objectives and our ideas regarding the property structure of the Austrian economy and the Austrian industry and banking landscape. We should insist that we are beyond the fact that privatisation is always good or always bad. Mr Peter – he has then left the hall – is obviously not over yet, he is actually the one who has the scams up. For he believes that privatisation is always good, and does not at all realize that in many cases – and this also shows foreign examples – public property can be very useful. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Gredler: Why then privatize?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hans Helmut Moser.]] - I'm going to do this now. I believe that our economy needs a property structure, which in principle also knows ownership – whether private or public – of long-term interests, because it cannot be that we only have corporate taxation of small shareholders and micro-sharers, of scatters, of investment funds and pension funds. This would result in only short-term interests. We need the strategic-thinking entrepreneur, whether private or public, to perceive long-term interests. [[Intercom calls at the Liberal Forum.]] In the next step – listen, I'm trying to develop it very slowly – we have to say, if we want such an entrepreneurship function: It is useful and better if this entrepreneurship is performed domestically. For we know from investigations that high-value-added enterprise parts with high decision-making and high investment responsibility are usually found in those countries in which the parent group is also located, and that this also involves many supplies, industrial services, legal services, auditing services et cetera. Finally, we should also recognise that it is not only a matter of having strategic property, that it is not only about the fact that some of the strategic property is also resident in the country, but also about the fact that this strategic property is in some cases perceived by the public authorities. In this context, I call the energy industry, infrastructure companies, banks, the telecoms sector and other important industrial areas. If we recognize this, we need to ask what instrument we use so that we can also come to this strategic ownership, and how the public hand can do so. I would like to mention two examples in this discussion. In the discussion on ÖIAG, we should assume more and more that ÖIAG is not only a privatization and financial holding, but also more and more a holding company that has long-term ownership interests, especially those of important industrial companies which already hold it, such as the VA-Tech, VA-Stahl, OMV, Böhler-Uddeholm. We should also consider whether, for example, following the German example, the federal states with their instruments, via hypos, via other companies that are located in the federal states can also have strategic ownership of some industrial enterprises in the countries. So I assume, in my conception, that there is not an Either-or, but a Both-Al-A too. Of course, in addition to strategic ownership, we also want to bring more and more risk capital into the economy via the equity, investment funds, pension funds and the like. But it also complements: The more risk capital of micro-prudents is in the economy, the less the proportions of those who want to perceive strategic property would have to be. Finally, we should also learn to discuss the extent to which we use models of employee participation, in which employees are involved in the company's ownership and can also participate strategically, as instruments more than before. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I refer once again to the law on the sale of shares of Bank Austria. It is difficult for me to understand that it is in the interest of achieving a maximum purchase price that a very short period of time is set and that this very short period of time is useful. But I'm going from the following: If we are already setting a deadline at the end of the first quarter of 1998, this can only mean that this sale is binding, but it does not have to be completed either formally or technically. Finally, I would like to say the following: We need a co-existence of large shareholders who have long-term strategic ownership, which can be both public and private, and shareholders who have very short-term interests, who own scatters, buy investment funds or participate in pension funds, and a third model that is certainly still in our infancy, namely employee participation. The prerequisite for this discussion is that we do not have a shambles, that we get away from ideology: Private is always good, public is always bad. Some in this House, however, are still very deep in this ideology, because, like for example, honourable Members Peter, they think that private is always good, public is always bad. It's not like that. We should deal with these issues very openly, very objectively and above all with them without any shambles.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e12329	The next speaker is Mr Böhacker. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e12350	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! ==References====External links== July 1997, on page 2: "Government is fair when implementing EU law. Exactly 153 EU directives and regulations still have to transpose this government into national law. Furthermore, in 17 cases infringement proceedings of the Commission against the Republic of Austria are pending." The reference to this message should not mean that I am speaking a blindly forwarding obedience to the implementation of EU directives – quite the contrary. However, ladies and gentlemen, it is a bit remarkable when, on the one hand, the Austrian Government is impervious in its implementation, but on the other hand, when the EU presents a fig leaf for actions of "creative accounting", which provides budgetary beauty, which shifts from budget expenditure to subsequent years, a suspicious hurry. That concludes the circle on a subject that we are dealing with today, namely the novel of the zero coupon fund law. ==References== In December 1985 a federal law was passed under Franz Vrannitzky, for financial policy reasons, with the content of disbursing the annual interest on the so-called zero coupon financial debt from the budget and being allocated to a fund. This fund, in turn, has made the best possible use of these amounts, with the result that not only the interest rates for the State but also more revenue could be achieved. This is an absolutely positive approach, in line with the principle of the pure demarcation and care of a decent merchant. Now EUROSTAT says that there would be a different method of action to be chosen. Again with suspect The Federal Government is committed to innovation of this zero-coupon fund law and to resolving the funds in this fund. The Minister of Finance has explained to us that there are currently 5.7 billion schilling, of which 2.4 billion in 1998 are to go to the budget. [[Federal Minister Edlinger: 1997!]] Sorry, 1997. Federal Minister! Can you explain to us where the remaining amount comes from between 5.7 billion and 2.4 billion? [[Abg. Auer: 1998 into the budget!]] Or will this amount be used for the zero coupon bond due in 1998? [[Abg. Aure: Watch out! That's quite legal!]] Mr President, I should like to thank I'll come back to that again: It's suspicious. Wherever there is only a small point of approach to "creative accounting" and budget beauty, this federal government and the parliamentary groups of the government parties will act. That's not an individual case. I remember about 13th. Sales tax date, which was introduced at random, on the special prepayments for IFB, which burdened future budgets, on the 5 percent special surcharge in income and corporation tax – again an advance on future budgets – and – recent dates – to the discussion in connection with the building savings premiums. Mr Finanzminister! I have to say: You made this tactically excellent. They have placed a strong reduction in the construction premium in space, with the result that there has been a great protest throughout Austria. After that, you took a little bit away from this measure, but negotiated with the building savings banks that there would be a shift in the maturity date of the construction savings premium. In other words, you pay 1.8 billion schilling to construction savings premium from 1997 only in February 1998. In this way, the 1997 budget, which will have an impact on 1998, has once again been beautiful. And you're getting on with it all the time. But at some point, Minister of State, you too will get the truth. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You could continue this list at any time: Supporting the clearance decisions, prohibiting deductions for losses in 1996 and 1997 – all these are only shifts in order to save the 1997 budget. Federal Minister Edlinger! With this kind of "creative accounting", with these budget tricks you will never be able to sustain the Austrian federal budget. On the contrary: They will burden future generations – with the result that further load packages will come. Even if you have declared here today in an intermediate call, you would rather dissolve the zero coupon fund than raise taxes, I must tell you: You're on it and on it, constantly increasing taxes, taxes and fees. Do not pretend that the increase in stamp fees from 120 S to 180 S would not be a charge increase! They mislead the Austrian population. We liberals will not give our consent to this procedure or the novel to the zero coupon fund law.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e12420	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Höchtl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e12442	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! At the time of the occupation of the National Council meeting room, it is seen that important television news is currently running. In view of this, I would like to try to hold the discussion not only on the content of these legislative proposals but also on an aspect which, in my view, is the basis for the further development of our entire financial market, of our privatization capital. We have been able to read or have heard some comments in recent days that there would be a Quasi overload of our market if, on the one hand, we were to put First and Giro on the stock market, on the other hand, Bank Austria or its federal shares and the ATW. But do we actually ask ourselves why this might mean overload? Have we not in the past failed some of the things that could have been an uplifting of the market? I would like to make a few points because Mr Kaufmann has started this discussion; a parliamentary debate should be a response to arguments. If, in 1984, we had around 1500 billion schilling of money in Austria, and this has increased in just over a decade to over 3,500/3600 billion schilling, this is a huge increase; overall, this is really a remarkable asset. On the other hand, what is happening to the market listed on the stock exchange with emissions is very low in comparison to various international developments. I therefore put forward the thesis that it would be possible, if this market were to be revived and if one had the greatest interest in placing around 50 billion schilling on the stock market in the year. This means that there are two essential aspects to force: on the one hand, the direct aspect, that is the interest of the individual budget, the individual in the acquisition of shares, because we, as a member of the European Union, also have a huge need for recovery. Currently, 4 to 5 percent of all Austrian households have shares, while around 18 percent of households in the EU have shares. [[Abg. Böhacker: Why is that so?]] I say yes: It is a totally underdeveloped area; there has been no awareness-building in this regard. That is why it is a way of working together in this direction. It would be a great opportunity if we could reach the EU average halfway in the next few years. The second aspect is the already tailor-made employee participation. In Austria, about 1.5 percent of all employees are involved in the substance of those companies in which they operate. Examples from France, Great Britain, but also from the Federal Republic of Germany show that we have enormous need for follow-up in this regard. That is, in order to comply with my speaking time, if we jointly decide to make this awareness-building towards a yes to a broad scatter of ownership, a yes to the holding of shares, a yes to the participation of the individual employee in the substance of the company, then we will not be embarrassed to make too many placements of larger Austrian but also smaller companies on the stock exchange. In my view, this is the task that we should take on due to the discussion that has taken place in connection with these legislative proposals. That means: A yes to realize perhaps a "vision of a People of Owners". We should draw this as a teaching, as a consequence of the discussion of the last days.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e12482	Mrs Gredler spoke. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e12504	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! What I was able to take with me last time as an experience from the Financial Committee is really interesting. I am not normally in this committee, but I had been made a little curious about what it says about the agreement of the coalition parties. First, however, I would like to ask Mr Mag. Merchant reply. In his speech, he drew a contrast, so to speak, in the sense that long-term interests are safeguarded by the public, but by private individuals rather short-term interests. [[Abg. May. Merchant: I didn't say that!]] I have to say: Those entrepreneurs I know have all long-term visions, and that is because they want to keep their company. It is an obligation to say that the money for companies is much more unsafe and much safer in the public sector. [[Abg. May. Merchant: I didn't say that either!]] I assume that you have followed the path of the nationalized industry closely and have probably also noticed what conclusions the public hand has to draw from it. This bill, the sale of the bank-austria shares, is actually about a little bit of admirable. One would like to try to get rid of a lot of shares within a very short time, which will, of course, lead to a flood or an overload of the stock market, because the Vienna Stock Exchange is not able to handle such volumes correctly, or it is a little bit in the deep sleep. I would like to quote at this point an article by Reinhard Göllweil, who was to be read today, an article in which he gives the following example: The ÖIAG privatisations showed that shareholders' capacity to take up was approximately two to three billion per company. The majority of the rest was placed abroad. - Quote. So this is when one has the scatter in Austria as a goal, a little too much, if not even an excess, which is offered. At the same time, however, we let the first and the Giro know that they too want to join the stock exchange at that time. – An emission volume of two banks to the extent of 20 billion schilling would have disastrous consequences. So the author Göllweil. I have to say: If you schedule at the end of the year or allow an extension period of three months – with the approval of the Federal Government – then you will not reach anything. They do not reach that there is a scatter, nor can they be taken into account in price fluctuations in order to take care to achieve a maximum of the proceeds. In addition, by placing someone else, placement costs have been calculated to the extent of 600 million schilling. Federal Minister! 600 million schilling – this scale is not quite uninteresting – you can go through the rags on this occasion as well. There will be a problem due to the time pressure. In my opinion, however, time pressure has only arisen because there is distrust of a government party towards the other government party. What I particularly liked at this committee meeting is the fact that there was a interrupting of meetings. I don't know if that was the reason, but suddenly I saw Mr. Klubobmann Kostelka there – and then the meeting continued again. [[Abg. Dr Kostelka: This has been an interesting committee!]] Mirakel! You're a saint! You obviously saved the coalition at the time, otherwise I cannot explain that your appearance, Dr. Kostelka, has suddenly led to a session progress. [[Abg. Arbitrator: He's good! But don't exaggerate!]] But it's nice to know that. If there are difficulties in the future, I too believe that you should be called, Dr Kostelka. I learned from it, Mr. Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e12594	The next speaker is Mr Lacner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e12616	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to take advantage of the two requests made by Mr Prinzhorn on the privatisation of state-owned companies in order to take a general view on the question of "private versus state", whether state and economics or economics must be opposites. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Experienced they are!]] Mr Stadler! This has been impressively contradicted lately. That's probably the way to say that. I read in the requests that the interests of consumers and the whole Austrian economy are best preserved by deregulation and privatisation. – Let me tell you the following: That is certainly not the case; on the contrary. From this point of view, and in the short time available to me, I would just like to mention two of the reasons why: First: In my opinion, contrary to neoliberal theory, which led to the global economic crisis in the 1930s and today into global unemployment, the state has the task of directing and orderly intervention into the economy, including, in particular, the means of the economy itself. The State would rob itself of any economic action it would no longer present itself as a player on the economic policy parquet. In this context, I am thinking in particular of the strategic participation of the State in the areas of ÖIAG, E-Economics and, of course, money management. Secondly, Another argument that speaks against your privatisation euphoria is sustainability. A privatisation brings a lot of money, that's right! But she usually only brings it in a single year – and then never again. Companies that generate profits or good returns – especially those you want to privatize; I am thinking of the e-business, the casinos Austria, the OMV, the Austrian tobacco, to name just a few – privatize, is certainly not an art and truly no economic genius. Another argument, I believe, is that the state must not be a popular guest in the economy just where it is concerned about saving jobs. That is why – and I say that clearly – he should be allowed to use the right to be present in the economy when it comes to strategic participations and objectives. It is simply and simply not about privatising profit-making businesses or transferring them to private, but to give the losers a chance to the state. In future, we should therefore examine in detail whether and how such a person should go and whether there should be at least some strategic State participations in the future. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e12653	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e12675	Mr President. Minister! High house! In reality, it's not about any dogma: State or private? Say it quite honestly: It's about propore and your own grain. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] Call that by name! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I have to tell you: If one hears economic policy from Mr Farnleitner, then the dairy fund comes out, and if one hears your economic policy – I do not mean your personal, but that of Mrs Lacner and Mr Kaufmann – then one realizes that there is such a real state socialism coming out, the faith in what Stalingrad has overcome, then there is again in you. [[in the direction of SPÖ delegates]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] – Go S’, stop S’! I'll tell you: The Socialists of France and England also do not want to be national for a long time. They are very happy that the private sector has finally removed the hot potatoes from the fire – and not the state economy! [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka and Abg. Arbitrator: What do you mean by that? What do you mean "Stalingrad"?]] If you praise the ÖIAG today, honourable Member, the ÖIAG, which has made hundreds of billions of losses, I can only ask you: What does that mean? Hundreds of billions of losses – and now a bad return! What are you doing? Tell me! Perhaps the Landesgesellschafts of the energy sector or the banks should also be merged with the ÖIAG, the ÖIAG should take on the energy sector, and the banks must urgently remain "strategic"! – This is an economic policy that really does not match my understanding! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In Bank Austria everything is red as far as the eye is concerned, and at CA everything was black as far as the eye is concerned. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Mertel]] At P.S.K. On the other hand, it is beautifully divided: a red and a black. In the ÖIK you also have nicely divided it: a red and a black one, and at the OeKB we have the same again. All these are political occupations you want to receive – and nothing else is going on to you! If Mr Kaufmann believes that Bank Austria needs to be a strategic partner and this must be the state – I understand you so – then I must say to you again in this case: All of Europe is going a different way – but Austria is different! Bank Austria deserves nothing, because such lean returns are hardly available in Europe. But of course: If that's where politics has the say, then it's like that. Mr Kaufmann, Member of the Commission. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should If you have an disturbed relationship with the private sector, I have not noticed for the first time today. Ladies and gentlemen, we have no alternatives. Why is there no one? – Because the ÖVP has been sawing for so long and did not want to privatize itself, so that it now stands with its back to the wall. Therefore, the EIA must now bring something that at least looks like a sham. And that's a hell of a deal! As long as the AVZ is represented there and someone holds the blocking minority – and if it's only 10 percent – and that's the public hand, it will continue to have the say. That's what you're talking about. Mr Sellitsch, the Chairman of the Supervisory Board, has announced that he now wants to reach after the 18 percent, and that would mean: This is back in a secure socialist hand. That is why you are concerned: power, privileges, in the end, to suck off the public hand, what is possible, and to undermine competition. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Van der Bellen! Austrian influence is beautiful and good, but I must tell you that this is one thing with the strategic partners. They believe that the stock exchange no longer has a function in the sense of market economy, broad stock distribution does not have a management as well as a strategic partner, but there are, of course, also enough counter-examples. So I support you in many things, but to the market economy you have a slightly different view of things, one that actually does not correspond to the practice and even the internationalization of markets, but that is what it is. This pattern situation corresponds to the whole: Red there, black there. What you want is to stay in the rigidity and continue to sink in the protected area – and nothing else! To be honest: I am leaving these "strategic" public companies. I wonder where they are. I'm asking: Why is ÖIAG today having a lean 8 percent return on capital if you have thought strategically? Where is the "strategic way of thinking" of the ÖIAG? – I cannot discover strategic ways of thinking through the partner ÖIAG at VOEST-ALPINE or elsewhere. But if you bring the whole thing into the WestLB, if you are there the strategic partnership... – I have said that the VOEST-ALPINE has at least come out of the losses, but the strategic partner state you can't show me, you must show it to me first! [[Abg. Koppler: You just talked about that recently!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Maitz.]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] "Strategic" already, but in the sense of the pension contracts and the privileges, which are celebrated everywhere in the protected area – Mr Koppler, also with you – happy originals, and every day I already see that. Of course, the telecoms sector must remain with the state, because it is compatible. There's a little bit of something coming, I understand. It's always the same! Look You agree with EU law, what we get from there in terms of privatisation. Austria is the EU country, which has the highest state share, the highest state rate and the highest privatisation potential according to Portugal. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: You must show a result! We want Austrian solutions!]] Mr. Novotny! Tell me if you want to stick to your course to continue to state the economy and do not want to compete and continue to write bad results at the post office and at the energy industry! – The energy industry is also soon beginning to gain on the liberalized market! This is particularly addressed to the address of the ÖVP. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] In conclusion: In any case, the savings volume in Austria is sufficient to gradually revive the stock market. Stop playing "The cat bites in the tail" and say: Because we don't have a stock exchange, we can't privatize, and because we can't privatize, we can't have a stock exchange! Stop doing this thing all the time! This is so forward-looking and is not in line with the EU Treaty or with competition today. To your address, Mr. Economist Novotny – you are well-known for your national policy –: Stop this policy! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Novotny.]] In the end, it is financed from the budget. But we need the budget for pensions, for structural reforms, for the technology sector and not for your propaganda games!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e12814	Mr Auer spoke on behalf of the last speaker in this debate. The voluntary time limit is 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e12835	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In this tripartite package, with which we will decide on the sale of Bank Austria's shares, the privatisation law and the dissolution of the zero coupon fund, I assume that it is not necessary to explain what is meant by it. I just wondered a little about the comments of Mr Böhacker, who otherwise could not agree on expertise. [[Objection to the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The zero coupon fund is 1st. September 1997, that is definitely dissolved this year; the Austrian Federal Finance Agency takes over the settlement. Mr Böhacker! I admit quite openly that there is a certain advantage in this way for the 1997 and 1998 budgets. [[Abg. Böhacker: short term!]] The Federal Minister for Finance has not disputed this either in committee or here, but he has openly explained what will happen to it. That is why the accusation that he had tricked here is to reject! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is clear that the resolution of this fund will allow for a further step towards meeting the Maastricht criteria. Otherwise it will always be required to adapt to EU directives. [[Abg. Böhacker: But not me!]] As the last country, Austria will disband its zero coupon bonds. [[Further calls to the liberals.]] This is the implementation of an EU directive with the pleasant side effect that the 3 percent re-indebtedness ratio is respected, because failure of the euro project would have a dramatic impact on Austria's economy. It is undisputed – the Austrian foreign trade statistics of 1995 confirm this – that two thirds of all Austrian exports of goods go to other EU countries and our imports come from these countries even to 70 percent. Ladies and gentlemen! It is therefore necessary that we face the Euro project openly and dynamically. I would like to make another point to calm down the moods: Even if many European citizens, including Austrians, are skeptical of the euro: This monetary union is not something new and sensational. Although the changeover to the euro brings the largest but not the first monetary union. For example, the US has united the currencies of the 13 founding states at once, and Switzerland has brought together the individual currencies of its 23 cantons to the Swiss franc. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: This is quite "comparable"!]] And in the end, Mr Ofner, you will probably not even argue that the Swiss franc and the US dollar are among the best currencies. The euro will be an equivalent means of payment to these currencies in the future, and we are therefore happy to adopt these laws.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e12915	There is no more word message. The debate is closed. There is no final word from the rapporteur. I ask you now to take your seats. We come to several votes and vote separately on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 814 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this draft to give a corresponding sign. - That's the majority. This draft is largely adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever agrees to this in third reading may give a sign. - That's the majority. The draft was adopted by a majority vote in third reading. We are now voting on the draft law and the title and receipt in 815 of the supplements. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who are in favour of a corresponding sign. – This draft was adopted by a majority. We shall come to the third reading. Whoever agrees to this in third reading, I ask for a sign to be given the same. – This draft has also been adopted by a majority of the third reading. We are now voting on the draft law and the title and receipt in 818 of the supplements. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – The draft in 818 of the supplements is largely accepted. We shall come to the third reading. Whoever agrees to this draft in third reading, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This draft has also been adopted by a majority of the third reading. We are now voting on the request of the Financial Committee to take note of its report 816 of the supplements. Whoever is for this note, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – The notice takes place in a majority way. Finally, we shall come to the vote on the request of the Financial Committee to take note of its report 817 of the supplements. Whoever is for this note, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – That's the majority. 12. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (740 of the Supplements): Federal Law amending the Federal Law on the conclusion of cooperation agreements with international financial institutions (819 of the Supplements) 13. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (744 of the Supplements): Federal Law on the Performance of an Additional Contribution to the International Agricultural Development Fund (IFAD) (820 of the Supplements) 14. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (745 of the Supplements): Federal Law on the authorisation to waive loans from the Federal Government's bilateral development aid grant to developing countries (821 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e13050	We now come to items 12 to 14 of the agenda on which the debate is being held in one. There has been no oral reporting, so we are going into the debate immediately. As the first speaker, I give Mr Mag. Screaming the word. The voluntary time limit is 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e13074	Mr President. Federal Minister for Finance! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Today, we are dealing with a report from the Financial Committee, namely an authorisation given in the Financial Committee with 1 billion schilling, whose content is to make a 100% ban on loans for development aid in favour of the poorest and most indebted developing countries. In the Committee on Finance, there was a four-party proposal to increase this sum – which was not too short with 1 billion schilling – to 1.7 billion schilling. High house! We liberals say no three times to this approach! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We therefore say no three times, because it is first of all unwise, second unprofessional and thirdly an advantage for the Austrian taxpayer. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] – I would like to justify all three Nos, Mrs Colleague. It is unwise to grant a 100 percent loan to someone – not development aid that has been granted, which one does not want to get back from anyway – without the fact that, when it comes to the transition from developing country to a developed country, it is clear that it will have to repay the liabilities recorded on the international credit market at some point. It is necessary to inform the countries concerned that their debts cannot be issued ad infinitum to 100 percent. The second argument is more serious, namely the question of the unprofessional procedure. A report from the European Court of Auditors shows that there can be no more than 8 per cent confidence in money flows to developing countries from the Lomé Group. This means for the Austrian taxpayer: When he sends 1 million schilling there, 80,000 s arrive, but 920,000 s are simmering in some channels. The third is the question of how to use the Austrian tax citizen. We have two load packs behind us, and a third might be ahead. Under these conditions, simply and simply delete 1.7 billion schilling of development aid loans, the current situation is apprehension. I see no reason to include Austria in a group of countries that may be pursuing very different interests with this decommissioning action. This group of states, which joined the Paris Club in 1991, includes countries such as the USA, Canada, France, Great Britain, Belgium, Germany and Switzerland. All these countries sell arms to developing countries in large quantities. I am absolutely clear that these countries are very happy to grant a debt leave. Because that's how they can stay in business. This is also reflected in extensive discussions between your Ministry, Minister of Finance, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. First of all, only the authorization for a debt release of up to 1 billion schillings was planned, whereas the Ministry of Foreign Affairs demanded 1.7 billion from the beginning. After difficult discussions between the two ministries, the framework in the Committee was extended to 1.7 billion schilling. To sum up, I have to tell you: As long as it is not possible to use development aid loans professionally, with accompanying control and comprehensiblely where they really benefit the poorest of the poor, you will not receive our consent to the release of loans – and thus to the granting of Austrian tax resources.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e13137	The next speaker is Mr Gusenbauer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e13159	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! After Mr Deputies Schreiner a threefold No, I would like to say a number of things about this, on the basis of material considerations. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: We didn't expect that!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: There we are very surprised!]] Ladies and gentlemen, listen first! Later you have enough opportunity to be surprised. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: I listened to you when you were in committee...!]] I have not yet dealt with the subject at all in terms of content. Do you have the goodness to respond to an argument once in terms of content, instead of already exalting yourself! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: I've been listening to you before!]] It is this federal law that empowers Austria to waive the loans from the Federal Government's bilateral development aid policy towards the developing countries to fulfil a promise made by Austria in the context of the World Social Summit in Copenhagen as a measure to combat poverty in the world. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Not Austria!]] On the basis of the new report on the human development of the United Nations Development Programme, it is noted that the 41 poorest and most indebted countries in the world in 1980 had foreign debt of 55 billion, 183 billion in 1990, and 215 billion in 1995. Today, not only the United Nations Development Programme, but also the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund believe that there can only be an opportunity to develop and overcome poverty in these countries if they are freed from their huge debt burden. They do not have a development perspective if they continue to spend more than 50 percent of their total export revenues on the deduction of past debts. If you want to overcome poverty if you want poverty to be reduced worldwide, this debt is a crucial condition for this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Developing countries have different types of debt: They have loans from international financial institutions, loans from export promotion, loans from the so-called development aid. As we all know, the so-called soft loans are loans, which are usually hardly repaid because this kind of loans is actually considered by the donor states as development aid. If you look closely through the list attached to the Government template, you will notice that it is almost exclusively previous projects of Austrian development cooperation for which loans have been made due. Is the extent of this 1.7 billion schilling really so dramatic? – This is the sum of all credit repayments by 2042, i.e. almost for the next 50 years. Most of these payments or non-refunds will not take effect until a few years. The fictitious annual budget burden is therefore extremely low. It must be admittedly admitted that this measure does not have precisely huge dimensions in material terms. But it is a measure with great symbolic effect, because Austria has a sign that it is contributing to the debt of debt, which is not only bilaterally carried out by the individual donor states, but also for the first time by the World Bank itself as part of its HIPC initiative in favour of the poorest developing countries. I am pleased that, in the financial committee and in addition, in the subcommittee on development policy, we have been able to reach the broadest consensus on not leaving it to a billion in the event of a debt loss, but to include all the loans of the countries concerned in the total amount of 1.7 billion schilling. If you read the Government template carefully, you will find that it is internationally recommended to include not only the one billion, but all the development aid loans of the countries concerned. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Not even with this will the Minister of Finance have his joy!]] I can tell you how this debt will work. You should deal with these things in concrete terms if you want to practice such massive criticism! – The Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will conclude agreements on debt debt with the countries concerned. Of course, it will be a goal to motivate some of these countries where it is possible to use part of the money saved for social measures in favour of the poorest of the population. These are so-called equivalent funds. Such funds, for example, have set up Switzerland in the course of its démocratisation measures. However, this debt was far greater than what we were planning. Switzerland has experienced that not all recipient countries can be subject to a linear equivalent model. It turned out that sometimes only a small part of the money spent can be dedicated to another purpose. It must also be said that the motivation for counter-value funds would be much greater when it came to the issue of so-called hard loans. Nevertheless, we will also try to achieve by this law the objectives that we have signed on the occasion of the Copenhagen Social Summit, namely to motivate developing countries with debt losses to do more to overcome poverty. Under this law, the Minister of Finance will of course not be able to issue carte blanche to the individual countries. If you want, I'd like to go further in detail. It is also a question of motivating individual countries to act in a reasonable way. I know examples of individual developing countries who have not yet contributed their part of the projects and now believe that they can make debt for a new part of the debt that they themselves would have to bear. In such a case, Austria will be very reluctant with debt, precisely because we want to motivate the countries concerned to act in a reasonable manner. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: What does "restraint" mean?]] That is to say, the empowerment of the Minister for Finance is based on very reasonable development policies, and we were of the opinion in the Subcommittee that it would be possible to conclude reasonable agreements. That is why I consider the Federal Law in the present wording to be an appropriate basis for bringing this project to the stage. Austria thus sends a very positive signal internationally. But the National Council, if it adopts this law today, also sends a positive signal within the political framework. I recall the 'Initiative 96', which is committed in Austria to a comprehensive debt of developing countries, has held many discussions and has handed over to Parliament a petition with twenty thousand signatures. One of the demands of this "initiative 96" was, for example, the full debt of 1.7 billion. I think it is a positive sign that we in Parliament are willing to take part in this debate. One of the results of this debate is that the said requirement is fulfilled by today's bill. I believe that this is a positive expression of the new cooperation between government, Parliament and non-governmental organizations on development policy. Their relationship in the past was very often strained and characterized by many cock struggles, but I feel that it has gained a constructive basis in the past year, which will lead to a new quality of development cooperation. We are faced with the challenge of achieving a better quality of cooperation between North and South, but also a better quality of cooperation in our own country and between different actors at a time of consolidation and savings with the few money we have available for development cooperation. I believe that this law, in the form of the report of the Financial Committee, is a very good and valuable step in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e13290	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Frieser. - Please. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e13311	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We have always committed ourselves to development aid and development cooperation. Mr Gusenbauer has very detailed and profoundly explained the matter to you. There's nothing to add to it in itself. From the history of our reconstruction, we know even the very best of the existential importance of targeted funding from rich industrial states – on the one hand, for survival, on the other, for the construction of a viable infrastructure. Ladies and gentlemen! Austria – thank God – is one of the richest industrial nations, although people still live in poverty in their own country. This group must be helped efficiently. But today it is about offering the poorest of this world a fair opportunity for development cooperation. For me, "fair" means first of all to enable sustainable development. For decades, industrial nations have exploited resources, both in the field of raw materials and in the labour force. In this way, our measures are not even a discount, so we can not even hang out the so-called donorg’wandl. "Fair" means to me second, to keep international promises. Gusenbauer has also mentioned this. "Fair" means third, to enable concrete, targeted decommissioning actions, as we do today. All those who still see a threat to our budget in this contribution from Austria are, in conclusion, referring to the economic aspect of development cooperation. Finally, we ourselves are interested in the developing economic partners, and we have mostly known such benefits to be used. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, unlike the FPÖ, we will be happy to give our consent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e13354	The next speaker is Mr Hans Helmut Moser. Mr deputies, your club will be available for another 17 minutes as a rest of the speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e13379	Thank you, but I'm not going to use these 17 minutes completely. – Mr President, I should like to thank you for your support. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am very glad that we are today entering into a decision on a federal law on the performance of an additional contribution to the International Agricultural Development Fund, as well as a federal law on debt and the waiving of loans from the Federal Government's bilateral development aid towards developing countries. For me, the fact that there is very broad political consensus on this is indeed the expression of a new quality of cooperation in the Development Committee and a new quality of cooperation with non-governmental organizations in this country, but also a new quality of development cooperation policy, ladies and gentlemen. I'm glad and positive. We Liberals will therefore give our approval to these three legislative proposals. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is a shame to try to beat political little money out of today's debate and decision-making, because of the help for the poorest of the poor, so to speak, to heat up the political debate in our country. Mr Schreiner has given three reasons why one has to vote against: because it is unwise, unprofessional and an advantage to Austrian taxpayers. Ladies and gentlemen! These are three reasons that guide themselves. Because inaccurate – as Mr Scheibner said, no, Mr Schreiner – is rather his argument... [[Abg. Scheibner: What have I said?]] I promised myself, and my colleague Schreiner meant. – It is more unwise for him to try to settle the matter than to have to be associated with today’s legislative decision to be educational measures against the countries of the Third World. Dear colleague Schreiner! That is exactly how we behave against the countries of the Third World, against which we should act massively: we do not need a schoolmaster on the part of representatives of the industrial nations towards the Third World countries, which I believe we do not need. On the issue of unprofessionality. - Dear Erich! The results of the study, quoted here, simply do not agree. I believe that it is necessary for us here in Parliament to deal with our experience in the security of development policy. For this purpose, a parliamentary delegation has traveled, among other things, three priority countries of Austrian development cooperation. We have carried out an evaluation of the development cooperation projects in the Subcommittee on Development. Among them are also representatives of the Freedom Party. Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, the representatives of the liberals and the Greens were not with us abroad. They could have taken the view that the development cooperation projects are very useful, that the NGOs are doing very good work and that the funds of bilateral development cooperation are well-designed. Schreiner also said that this was an advantage to the Austrian taxpayer. I believe that there are greater implications for decisions in this House than is the case. Mr Erich Schreiner! You were in the Committee on Finance and Mr Ofner was involved in the Subcommittee on Development when we discussed this issue and got the information that the budget was burdened with 23 to 60 million schilling each year. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schreiner.]] Ladies and gentlemen! That's a drop on the hot stone. That's a sum that's absolutely reasonable. It is important, I believe, that we in this House also deal with what it really is all about, especially when we consider that the debtor countries have a debt of about $2,000 billion to the rich industrialized countries. If one knows, for example, that the countries south of the Sahara have had 212 billion dollars in external positions in 1994 and that this amount exceeds the proceeds from their exports by two hundred to one thousand times, then it is clear that if it is requested that these countries will be taken any way possible for sustainable economic development. I see it as one of our essential humanitarian tasks and commitments to help these states, these nations, so that they can build up their economies in a sustainable way by using the funds they do not have to repay to the rich industrial nations, also for educational projects and for projects for the development of democracy. That's what we're supposed to do. I believe that debt is a good thing, and the taxpayer will also understand that Parliament will take this decision today. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e13430	There is now a speech by Mrs Mag. Kammerlander before. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e13452	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. We are also pleased that this initiative, which has gone on to raise the sum of 1 billion schilling to the level which constitutes the sum of development aid credits, an initiative which has been very strongly assumed by the Green Group and which has been borne by it, has found its downfall in a four-party proposal. I would like to make a few more points, especially because the debate on how it leads the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is very superficial and populist. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] You make a mistake: They are trying to present the problem of debt as if there were such a thing as guilt in it. They then assign the debt factor, of course, to those countries that are indebted. They overlook only one thing, that is, that is not the case. They forget – and your business spokespersons will tell you, and you will be able to teach a better person – that the problem of debt is not about debt, but about unfair economic and trade relations, whose origin is in the past. Its origin was very low in the 1960s or 1970s, when the interest rates were very low, when a large demand in our countries also existed for products from developing countries and therefore the terms of trade, as is so well said in the trade jargon, were quite different. Only with the recession in the 1970s did the situation worsen. Interests have increased dramatically, demand in the countries of the North has dropped, there have been trade restrictions and import restrictions for products from developing countries. This has brought about an intensification of the situation and a rapid rise in debt. If you have looked at the presentation, if you have looked at the explanations of which credits it is from which years, you have seen that it is quite classic to those given in the 1980s under the title "structural adjustment". At the time, the World Bank and the IMF missed out to these countries programmes, namely structural adjustment programmes, in the faith and in the opinion that the recipe, which was also applied there or there in the industrialized countries and has led to short-term success, could also be achieved in the developing countries. We know today, it doesn't help, it doesn't fit. We know today that this has led to an even higher level of indebtedness, because the structural adjustment and the establishment of infrastructure without regard to the economic conditions on the ground, the economic conditions in a country, is only increasing this debt. We know today - the UNDP's final report, the UN Department of Development Policy, has already been quoted - that one of the most urgent measures to reduce poverty and poverty is debt. It is certainly not the only measure – I give you the right one, but only on this point – that it should follow a whole series of measures, quite certainly also taken and settled in Austria. I would like to talk about those points that were also formulated by the platform debt, which last year were carried by a number of developmental organisations – they were more than a hundred organisations – and which I believe are worth mentioning again. This is, in addition to allowing for debt, transparency in the allocation of public funds for the countries of the south, in particular, the transparency of export credits. It is not only about loans from development aid, but also about export credits, especially because these loans are granted for very different reasons. Their aim is primarily to help the domestic industry, exporters and not people on the ground. This is also often in contradiction, in incoherence, in a non-conformity with development policy. These awards are in no way transparent. In the last few weeks, we have had a different line of debate, namely, in connection with the control bank. We also call for the transparency of these funds and, secondly, a very clear catalogue of criteria for the allocation of these funds. Social and environmental criteria need to be introduced when it comes to the accountability of such loans and funds, including in the field of developing countries. Finally, it is also about the area of fair trade – it has already been tailor-made. It is about enabling fair trade also in Austria, and whether it is just step by step, that is step by step, whether only in small areas, on small occasions, which, however, bring with it very essential things. We are dealing with a number of measures which we are constantly discussing in the main committee, whether on the issue of chocolate regulation or in other areas. There you can very well put in place measures which, beyond debt, lead to a precise objective, namely not only fair trade, fair trade, but also to local economic conditions, i.e. in the developing countries, which enable the construction of an industry, an economy that is adequate and aimed at the interests of the countries and is not aimed solely at exporting to Europe, which, as we know, has been in the past to the detriment of these countries. We welcome this proposal. We hope that it is not the only step that Austria is taking in the sense of this comprehensive development policy, and that there may and will be other four-party proposals in this House that go in this direction.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e13515	There is no more word message. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not accept a final word. I ask you to take the seats. We shall now proceed to the votes. We shall vote separately on each of the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 740 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of a corresponding sign of approval. – This draft has been adopted unanimously. I note the unanimous adoption. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever agrees in third reading, I ask for a sign to be given. The draft was also adopted unanimously at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 744 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of doing so to give a corresponding sign of approval. - That's the majority. This draft law has been adopted by a large majority. We shall come to the third reading. Whoever agrees in third reading, I ask for a sign to be given. – The draft law has also been adopted by the majority at third reading. I shall now vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 821 of the supplements. Those who are in favour of it, I ask for a corresponding sign of approval. - That's the majority. This draft was adopted by the majority at second reading. We shall now vote in third reading. Who is for that, I ask him to sign the consent. – The draft has also been adopted by the majority at third reading. 15. Point Report by the Committee on Budgets on Amendment No 488/A by Mr Dkfm. May. Josef Mühlbachler, Ing. Kurt Gartlehnerand comrades on Budgetary Overrun Act 1997 – BÜG 1997 (782 of Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e13610	Now we come to the 15th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are starting the debate with a speech by Mr Mentil. Please, honourable Member. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e13638	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If you look at the events around the technology billions more closely, or if you look through these billions, you can see that a huge media spectacle around this billion - you have reported to the people for a long time and widely about this billion, you might almost say you have bluffed – but you have not said that even the Federal Chancellor has immediately reduced this billion by claiming that 393 million of them should be used for export promotion. I do not think that this can be referred to as technology promotion. They have only 600 million schilling available. 600 million schillings are not only little means, but there is also no concept for the distribution and deployment of these 600 million schillings. I'll prove it to you later. I have clear evidence that shows the tragedy of using this 600 million schilling. They constantly generate hope among the citizens, but they are disappointed by post-turning, so that when you see how you deal with these promises, your tears come to you very slowly. [[Complaints with the liberals]] I am convinced that the so-called Hochleitner-Schmidt concept is not the concept that forces and promotes small and medium-sized enterprises. But we know that small and medium-sized enterprises are actually those who guarantee jobs in Austria. Especially the companies are world champions in outsourcing jobs after their development has been effectively supported by Austrian tax funds. You have, unfortunately, failed to do so up to now, at last to reduce the so-called labour costs, labour costs, because you could promote far more effectively, much more if you the cost of pay would be reduced. They could have a much greater effect with a real billion than is possible. You have clearly provided for one of the 600 million schillings that remain: The division of competence takes place again in red and black proportion style – phenomenal for you and for your bureaucratic thinking and handling of these things. They again employ two ministries to do the technology promotion. If I imagine that for 600 million Schilling you need funding volumes from Minister One and Minister Farnleitner – two ministers who have to agree where they have the 600 million schilling flow – then you really must have the fear that the bureaucracy will cost more than the funding left. That means the salt is probably more expensive than the soup. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I would like to show you if your inability and as proof that what I have said is true, a wonderful contribution: The "Economic Sheet" of Saturday, 5th. July, presents a truly excellent, globally recognized and, in my opinion, historical invention: a solar cell made of plastic, developed by a Linz researcher, a Linz company. What steps does the Linz company have to take to get to research funds because the Austrian representatives on the government bank or Parliament are unable to solve the problem? – This Linz researcher, this Linz company, must contact the Dutch Ministry of Economic Affairs in order not to have to stop research on this solar cell. – It’s a shame, it’s really a sad game, what you deliver here in this Parliament and from this government bank and do to the population!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e13698	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Gartlehner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e13719	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! I assume that the solar cell, which is developed at the University of Linz by a university professor, is mainly financed by Austrian funds, because it usually works with Austrian research funds at the universities. Moreover, if there is a great interest of many private investors in participating in this project, it is logical and clear in itself. But I do not think that it can be understood as it was today in the "Economic Sheet" - I also read this article - because the editor, who wrote this article, apparently does not understand Austrian university funding. In principle, we did not expect the Liberal Group to say: This is a great story, there are technology-oriented activities during the year, under age, an additional billions for research and technology policy, for export promotion measures. We didn't count on that. I believe that it is nevertheless a very committed activity of Parliament, the Minister of Finance and the Federal Government if we actually make a billion extra available for such activities in times of the savings package. I am also convinced that a billion — at least a thousand million — cannot be done as Mr Mentil did by saying that the salt in the soup is more expensive than the soup itself. One billion is at least one billion. Sometimes, in a billion years, the Freedom Party speaks of a catastrophic situation, in other cases, when it is used for positive purposes and for innovation, of a negligible size. [[Abg. May. Stadler: It's always like this with the billions! A billion can be good, a billion can be bad!]] Yes, but I think she's good this time, and that can't be discussed away. This billion is good and positive, and we know that the allocation to the major funds, FWF and FFF, will bring about a significant improvement in the situation of these funds. At present 38 percent of applications to the FWF have to be rejected, others cannot be dealt with immediately. These additional resources will make FFF and FWF much better. However, it will also be possible for the Minister of Economic Affairs, who, of course, is also responsible for some of this policy – in this country not one is responsible for everything – to set up additional activities in the area of export promotion measures, which we urgently need. However, it also has the possibility to turn on the screw in other segments and to increase efficiency. I believe that we can, in total, be truly pleased that we have succeeded in activating these billions in addition, because until yesterday or last week, our opposition politicians have strongly disputed that there will ever be these billions. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e13757	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl. – Mr deputies, your speaking time is up to 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e13778	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Now she is born, the technology billion – after a long pregnancy a severe birth. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: But a beautiful child!]] I hope it's a beautiful child! But if she hadn't been born, ladies and gentlemen, then it would be like a comparison from medicine again, as if one were to abstain from medicine from a medicament, even if it were just a homeopathic dose. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They announced it a year ago with timps and trumpets. You said: Now we're finally tearing the technology carts out of the trash! A billion is, of course, a lot of money, but if we look at the residue we have in Austria, then I must say, this is a tiny amount. They are thus increasing the proportion of expenditure on research and recovery in GDP by 0.4 per mille – this is not a popular alco debate, ladies and gentlemen. – from 1.49 to 1.54 percent of GDP. The average is 2.2 percent. That's really bad, but we're going to give it to entrepreneurs. When you've announced this, the technology actors are already ready. There is a real concern as to whether programmes will be available in sufficient numbers. The funds have developed action lines, programmes and brochures have been printed, there have been flowering announcements. But now she is finally born, and the coalition partner is no longer present. According to today's newspaper, under the heading "Acting justice – bravely deciding" of the Federal Chancellor: Cancelled: Technology offensive, special programme. – I don’t know if there may be the same annonce in another newspaper with a different background, because you have finally and finally also cooperated. It's too little for us. Federal Chancellor Climate has declared the technology to be the chief issue, Hochleitner and Schmidt have presented a programme that we believe is in a new creation of bureaucracy, in the creation of new offices and ultimately leaves little for technology policy. The system has not been reformed. There is no approach to improving basic research that is moaning the Academy of Sciences, there are no approaches to the treatment of non-university research, which is combined in the ACR. Cooperation Uni – The economy is not regulated either. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Finally, it is a drop on the proverbial hot stone. I will personally agree because I do not want to keep this homeopathic dose away from the technological players in need. But we will see how serious it is for you in the budgetary negotiations and whether you will do everything you can to get rid of the spoken-word red lantern in the field of research and development in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e13822	Mr Dkfm, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Mühlbachler. The voluntary time limit is 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e13843	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! It is true that this one billion is certainly not a quantum leap, but at least – I mean – a decent beginning. I would like to say that I am speaking out of practical experience because we have set up a technology centre in Freistadt or have established a society for this purpose and have found that the public funding, as they are currently stored, is really attractive enough for many young entrepreneurs to enter high technology. If, at least, some 20 million out of 30 million are publicly funded, then, as I believe, this public support is already respectful, then the risk for young entrepreneurs who want to establish themselves in the technological field is minimized, and I think that will result in all kinds of it. It is not only about simply putting money on the table, but also about the successive development of these structures. I am confident that this one billion will indeed bring Austrian at least impulses in terms of young entrepreneurs for high technology professions, for entrepreneurship in high technology areas.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e13877	The next speaker is Mrs Gredler. - Please. Your club's speaking time is 11 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e13898	Mr President. Federal Minister! You'll be allowed to smoke soon, it won't take long. [[Abg. May. Main: Again a few big tobacco taxes!]] He looks so suffering! I have to say that sometimes I am sorry to be a Federal Minister if they are not allowed to live out sighs. [[Abg. May. Stadler: I don't know if that's on the cigarettes!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: I wouldn't refer to it!]] I take an article from the "Press" of tomorrow: "One wants the management of the technology offensive." – Interesting! Then it is obvious to one that what is foreseen is that the ERP fund is used to turn out from it a small, a few million, which means a total value of 30 billion, does not work that way at all. So he doesn't want it. It does not work because it is a fund that we established together with the Americans in 1963. So if we want to change something, we have to ask the Americans. I asked in committee what the authorities in America say simply that we want to use these 30 billion. That's where I was directed: They'll probably agree. – It is obviously not like that. That has now also been directed to Mr. Federal Minister One, and therefore he abandons the ERP Fund. - Delicious! Nevertheless, it is really interesting what the Council of Science and Research recently said, namely that budgetary policy is the research area with regard to the outcome of a fatal misevaluation. Unfortunately, the Council for Science and Research is not sent by the Liberals but by others. If one says there that this is the result of fatal misevaluations, one can see where we are in Austria and that we really need accents. It is only this that moves us to agree to this budget law that we do not agree with the way in which you want to distribute it. The problem is that we still have only one paper by Federal Minister Farnleitner on which the whole is based. Meanwhile, there is a rusty explanation that puts a completely different technology concept into space. However, it is only taken note of by the Federal Government that it will not be discussed until autumn. We are now distributing the funds whose use will only be made in autumn. I think this is a reversal of what is logical. It would be logical first to have the concept of how technology policy should be implemented in Austria and then to divide and spend the billions. This is clearly different in the Federal Government. One is distributed, and then one is thinking about how efficiency could be the greatest. - Please, I take note of this. Not only does the Science and Research Council make a fatal misevaluation, but it also says that without these technology billions the research rate would decline. We need technology billions not only to get to the middle of the lower OECD-third, but we need them because otherwise the budgetary situation would lead to an effective reduction in these funds. - Very good! I am sorry for the scientists who have to stay or want to stay in Austria in this situation. I can understand anyone who is looking for a job abroad, even if he is then being trained as a refugee, than in Austria, and then is then apostrophed to the intelligence elsewhere. This is really unfair to these scientists. But if you want to research in Austria in this context, you're in a corset and don't know if you'll have the resources at your disposal next year to complete your work. – I think that's the wrong way. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] There is a real discrepancy, a discrepancy that is unhealthy with regard to the ratio of public expenditure on research and development to private resources made available. 48 percent are made available from state resources. A healthy relationship would be one third public and two thirds private. That would be what we imagine and what is required internationally. Only the motivation of small and medium-sized enterprises is lacking to actually position themselves in research. There are far too few tax incentives. There are no real safeguards for jobs intended for researchers. It is also not interesting for young people to go to the industry and be released after a year, because the funds are missing. Federal Minister for Finance! Which is very important: There are hardly any women in all research. I wonder if women are not as creative as men. If I read in the paper that, for example, the project of the Mars mission was made lead by a woman, then I must say that women are at least well supported abroad. Obviously, in Austria one is not interested in supporting the creativity of the researchers adequately. Federal Minister! You might think if you already have extra money at your disposal to what extent this money could not be used to support women in this field, so that they can finally experience a development and not only have to stand up for the routine work of all the institutions of the university and cannot develop to present their research results abroad, because male colleagues are always preferred. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on representatives of the SPÖ.]] This is not an invention from me, but it can confirm to you many scientists from their own experiences, which is why I would like to see a change in this regard. Finally, I would like to say the following: We should be more differentiated in terms of research and technology, as some experts demand. Research, advanced production and technology at the latest are the essential conditions of global competitiveness. Why, then, do you think that suddenly, as far as competitiveness is concerned, Finland has slipped up 2nd place from 14th place? – Only because Finland has intensified research in these new technologies. That is why Finland is so successful. Finland is going the right way because these jobs will continue to be secured in the future. The argument which has fallen from the Social Democratic side is that unemployment in Finland is currently high: She's getting smaller! The reduction in unemployment is not in the 0.01 percentage point but in the percentage range. Only if we were to take this path on the new technologies – the Netherlands is doing the same – if we were to try to achieve attractiveness could we create jobs, could we show how it showed Bill Clinton with the millions of jobs he created in America. These are not jobs that are located only in the service. This is a substantial part of 50 percent of the new technologies. – Right in this area we sleep comfortably in front of us. I wish we could wake up. The pressure comes from the outside, maybe we can register it from the inside as well.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e13977	Mrs Petrovic is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please. Your club's speaking time is 19 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e13999	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! The Greens will vote in favour of this budget law, including these billions of technology. Of course, we are still skeptical of the extent to which this long promised technology billions will actually flow. We are even more skeptical of the management of the funds and, above all, the ability of the Federal Government to agree on the nature of the use of resources and the management of resources. In the interests of Austrian research, however, we are prepared to give some sort of confidence, although I am already asking myself the question of the right of this advance to trust. That it is not only the greens who look skeptically into the future in this context, the "press" of tomorrow proves to me, in which it is referred to as "high-tech jungles" in connection with today's law: "The government responded quickly." But immediately the criticism follows: "First, the funding of the new research office was questioned. Then the fight for future supervising began at the office for research and technology – and already the Austrian knew where his home is again."- That's what press opinions on this subject are. My colleague Van der Bellen has already proposed a new title for the so-called Privatisation Act, and I also think that we could soon discuss a law here that the government parties need to settle potential disputes of competence with the Research and Technology Office, i.e. a kind of R & TD anti-prevention and settlement law. I therefore call on the relevant Ministries and Head of Unit to ensure that it does not come to this. I also appeal to you – and this is actually the most important point for me – to quickly look at the framework conditions for research and development in Austria critically. Of course, it is important for more money to flow into research, and I believe that it makes sense to invest more in application-oriented, practical research when, on the other hand, there is an inventory guarantee for critical, non-technological research – I now call the keywords risk assessment, technology impact assessment – so that the human and social sciences are guaranteed that these areas will not be diluted. Then, I think, a strong practical orientation of technological research is quite clear and meaningful. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] Finally, on these framework circumstances of research which I have referred to: Federal Minister! Finally, billions are only incentives for researchers and industry in Austria to better link universities, research funding funds and practice. These incentives will only be taken up, and they will only lead to real changes and improvements – ultimately also concerning the job situation in the form of contracts to Austrian companies – if what is to be developed is worth even if developments and technological innovations in the market are also expected. That means once again – and I do not know how many times that is said here by speakers of the Greens: We quickly need a truly deep ecological tax reform. That is the most important point at all. In particular in the energy sector, in the transport sector, in the field of construction investment, huge investment is imaginable and huge technological improvement potentials can also be used. It is also a question of which European state will have the nose ahead of it, whether it is Austrian companies or others. All these investments – from the energy sector to the transport sector to the construction sector – only have a chance of taking the best incentives of research policy in practice if they count on daily application. As long as the use of fossil energies, i.e. other energies, is still not subject to the principle of cost-effectiveness, as long as the genuinely environmentally friendly technologies are not really favourable in tax terms, as long as there are no real incentives in the system, the common research resources can always be a drop on the hot stone. In this sense, I hope and hope that the work of the Tax Reform Commission will progress rapidly and that there will be political courage to rapidly implement the findings that have been gained into practice. This should not lead to additional burdens on farms or households on average, but it will certainly not do so without serious system changes. Only against this background will the "technology billions" prove, as I believe, in the way that multiplier effects occur and that we can soon speak of many "technology billions". I think that is urgently necessary in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e14050	Mr Dr. Niederwieser is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e14071	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Today one cannot speak of a drop or even of a drop on the hot stone: Rather, it is a significant day for Austrian research and technology policy. At a time when there is not an increase in these areas in the other countries, but in some cases drastic restrictions are being made, we are investing an additional billion in this area. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl.]] This, I believe, is also recognised by the other parties by their wish to agree to this bill, and we are glad that they are constructively involved in this project. The long discussion – it was criticized for the long duration, but in about half a year to put a billion on the legs is actually not that long! In any event, it was on the content of the fact that a very strong awareness of this new momentum has developed at universities, research institutions and firms and that we can build on it in the next few weeks and months. There is already a technology policy concept of the Federal Government, there is the new paper "Research and Competition". And if Mr Petrovic has said that the press is again criticizing this, then I would say that this criticism of tomorrow will probably be overtaken by tomorrow. ==References====External links== June, which I happened to take with me – that's not so long ago, not even a month! –, it says: "Technology offensive is slowing down until 1998. – And what happens today? Today this "technology billion" will be decided! So you see: Not everything that is quoted here from the "Press" must be true; and this criticism is true, I believe, not at all. We will prove that it is not true! In this new, already mentioned paper by Hochleitner and Schmidt there are a number of good analyses that show where to go. I do not want to go into it in detail now, but I just take a few points out, for example, that we also need to strengthen the research axis in particular at the technical colleges, that there must be a total pooling of research expenditure, and that we – this is a central point of future research policy – ensure that we do not face a single thing at once and say: How do we forgive these money we now have at once? We have very effective funds, which are very good, targeted and awarded according to very good quality criteria. It will certainly be necessary to pay particular attention in these projects to the fact that operational research is also being forced and that we take particular account of our small and medium-sized enterprises, because there is no research awareness and perhaps research resources in the way that is in the case of Holland, for example, where many large firms with large research departments operate. Mr Gredler mentioned a few countries in this context. Finland and the Netherlands are certainly very interesting examples, as are Switzerland. In the next few weeks and months, we will be very quick to redesign the research landscape. The Scientific Committee has also set up a subcommittee which will not only discuss the research report but will also consider how the papers available here can be implemented very quickly. The Committee on Industry has been doing this with the technology policy concept for some time. We're, like I mean, in a good way with this "technology billion." We certainly have a long way ahead of us. The increase in the share of GDP from the 1.5 percent already mentioned to 2% is still a good step forward, and we need to achieve this objective. But I think that this first step today is a very important step and that we will continue to bring Austria's research to the fore in the next few years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e14129	The next speech is by Mr Dr. Stummvoll. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e14150	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. I have the right to follow up immediately on the statements made by my previous speaker. He pointed out that a greater part of the road is still ahead of us. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to put this into figures: The difference between 1.5 or 2 percent research and development ratio is 12 billion schilling annually. Today's 1.5 percent are 36 billion schilling, so according to Adam Ries, 2 percent are 48 billion schilling. This shows in quantification the enormous challenge that comes to us in the next few years. All in all, however, we are very pleased that research, development and technology policy has a high priority in this Federal Government. We see this at today's decision on the distribution of these first "technology billions", we see it on the German Federal Government's concept for research and development policy, and we have seen it in the setting up of the project team Hochleitner/Schmidt. Ladies and gentlemen! I have, above all, made my speech, because I want to stress - I am very glad that some previous speakers and colleagues, Mr Niederweiser, have emphasized this - that we will be very careful, as far as the economy is concerned, to ensure that this reorganisation of technology policy is more linked than drawing new organigrams or new "castles", as I sometimes say. First of all it is necessary – I mentioned this by the example – to take more money into your hands. On this point, I fully agree with those statements in the resolution on growth and employment of the EU Summit in Amsterdam, which say that it is necessary, inter alia, to maintain the competitiveness of the European industry, to transform the public budgets in order to stimulate investment in research and development, technology, human capital and infrastructure accordingly. This is a very important point, and I know, Minister of Finance, how difficult it is in the current budgetary situation. But if we want to develop future-oriented strategies, we must take this Amsterdam Recommendation into account. Ladies and gentlemen! As a whole, allow me to comment as follows: I believe that we must, in general, as each one of us is required, show the citizens that we are using too much and not investing too much in the future today. I believe that in the next few years and after the turn of the millennium, the research and technology front will probably decide to a great extent which countries are attractive or not attractive as economic sites. Secondly, Many previous speakers also stressed that we should not forget the small and medium-sized enterprises. I join this appeal, because it is sometimes sensational and the greatest motivation for my own work as a representative of interests to see what great entrepreneurial achievements small and medium-sized enterprises provide. I know companies with around 40 employees, who are world leaders in their field, about a business in the forest district, which is top of the world with 40 employees in the field of laser speed measurement. That's, I think, sensational. Ladies and gentlemen! We want to achieve that, in the course of this reorganisation and restructuring, small and medium-sized enterprises do not go down, but rather have a fair chance of eventually putting their creativity and their innovative spirit into jobs. A third point still: We have a very practical fund, the so-called FFF, the research fund of the industrial economy, chaired by Director-General Frantsits. I think we should do everything we can to ensure that this fund, which has worked very well so far, does not come under the wheels during the restructuring process. We've heard Frantsits' calls for help in the last few days. I think we would be ill advised to redesign a well-functioning fund in the course of this restructuring. In this sense, I am pleased that we are taking the first step towards "technology billions" today. But I agree with my previous speakers that this is only a first step. The challenge for the next few years is also a huge one financially!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e14206	Mr Müller is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e14228	Mr President. Estimated Minister of Finance! High house! The new conditions for world economic competition, which are already in force today but will continue to apply much more in the future, require many changes in organisational conditions. A technology offensive and an increase in expenditure on research and development is essential, on which we all agree. At the level of the economy, it is important to create a fundamentally advanced and, above all, innovative climate, to ensure the necessary flexibility and mobility and to provide educational infrastructures. But we must never forget something: Progress also means new ways of social security. The total share of private and public research expenditure on GDP has already been mentioned several times: It has been relatively constant in Austria for several years at about 1.5 percent. Although Austria is well below the international average, it is our goal to reach 2% in 2002. That is why the Federal Government has put a strong signal in this direction with a research and technology billion in 1997. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Mentil.]] Mr Mentil, there are very good concepts. The aim is to achieve objectives such as the strengthening of research and transfer capacity for technical universities, with knowledge from this field being applied in practice to small and medium-sized enterprises. However, we also need, of course, the necessary information and communication techniques to facilitate this cooperation in the end. It also addresses the development of the transport infrastructure, with particular reference to the development of rail and the associated transport logistics. Ladies and gentlemen! In addition to direct support, there will need to be additional tax incentives, such as an increase in the research allowance and promotions for the additional employment of scientific and technical staff. However, tax incentives for in-house education and training will also be examined. In this context, the Tax Reform Commission is required to submit proposals. Although Austria has highly qualified workers who are very successful in international comparison, education and training must be a priority – and that is it in the current government programme! - stay. Ladies and gentlemen! Austria's economy needs a technology offensive to be able to exist in international competition in the future, so there can only be a clear yes to this report by the Budget Committee.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e14274	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Steindl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e14295	Mr President. Minister! Dear ladies! Gentlemen! It is the privilege of the first speaker of every party that he can speak in full terms. And it is the advantage of the last speaker that he can also speak in full terms before a vote. [[Abg. Leikam: But then he must say something done!]] Of course, one can be of different opinion about these "technology billions". The gross domestic product can be used as a scale: Compared with Austria, the share is 1.5 percent, Sweden 3.1 percent and France 2.4%. Of course you can talk about a drop on the hot stone. Günter Stummvoll has already stressed: A further 12 billion Schilling are missing annually for the increase to 2 percent. Nevertheless: Firstly, this is a real step, second, this is an important signal for our businesses, and thirdly, it is ultimately important measures to internationalise the Austrian economy, to strengthen its location and to create an export offensive. Each additional research project brings 8 to 10 sales shillings, and this is a basis for creating qualified, high-quality jobs. Therefore, a yes to this "research billion". Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e14333	The next speech is by Mrs Grollitsch. Time left: 2 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e14354	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In short: This technology billion egg was played for a very long time, and many hopes were awakened. It was also raised in my region, in Leoben, the hope that large-scale research will be promoted over these billions and that the Eurocryst project can give this region new hope. Unfortunately, the government has not yet agreed on the question of large-scale research. There is also no decision on the Austroton or Eurocryst decision to date – despite announcement. Finally, it can be expected that after the allocation of these billions, this hope for the region is also over. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But this also applies to the hope awakened in the course of the pre-gacker concerning Seibersdorf. Prompt follows with regard to terminations and for flight from Seibersdorf in tomorrow's newspaper the complaint of the research institute we have relied on so far. Why we do not understand why we have left out these, developed new flutes, and allowed the existing to starve! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] To sum up, we are, of course, in favour of promoting research, and we are of course in favour of investing this billion in research, but we cannot be in favour of this being awarded politically practically freely without a preliminary review procedure. We will ensure that in the future there will be a review and that a felony of the professionals is admitted and that this is not ordered from above as the chief thing down. In principle, consent to this billion has been signaled by our website. However, I am well aware of colleagues in our group who are opposed to this form of implementation and allocation, which has, as has been said, been made a highly political "chapter". - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e14407	There is now no mention of this. That concludes the debate. There is no final word from the rapporteur. We are therefore entering the voting procedure. To this end, I would ask the honourable Members to take their seats. We shall come to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 782 of the supplements. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – The majority of the vote will be taken. The request was accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who would like to vote in favour of the motion for a law at third reading. – This also happens in a majority way. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. The agenda is exhausted. Applications for the setting up of committees of inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e14464	We are now negotiating the request made by Dr Schmidt and Comrades to set up an investigative committee to examine the political responsibility of the Federal Government, in particular the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Federal Minister for the Interior and the Federal Minister for Justice, as well as suspected illegal influence by political agents in connection with the investigations on the murders of Abdullah Ghaderi, Abdul-Rahman Ghassemlou and Fadel Rasoul on 13 March. July 1989 and the persecution of three of these serious suspects who, despite clear indications, were able to leave Austria unblemished. The request has now been distributed to all Members. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e14516	We are going into the debate. I refer to the provisions of § 57a of the Rules of Procedure. The floor was given to Mrs Dr Schmidt as an applicant. Maximum speaking time: 10 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e14541	Mr President. High house! Mr Kostelka asks me if there is something new. . I do not think that the answer to this question is important because the old things have not yet been clarified, but rather a clarification to them. This is also the reason why we have recently requested that a committee of inquiry be set up in connection with the investigation of the murders of three Kurds. We are firmly convinced that the question of political responsibility can only be resolved by a committee of inquiry. I know that you like to proceed with the motto – the ÖVP has demonstrated this wonderfully to us today in connection with the foreign minister’s verbal jury –: Let us talk about something else; we have more important problems! – My concern is that it could become a political principle to divert from the essentials by referring to seemingly even more essential things. However, it cannot be a Parliament's task simply to go to the agenda if we know that, in a certain context, it is about people's lives on the one hand and the foreign policy line of a country on the other! There have been internal reports by three Ministries, and it is significant that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has been able to present such a report at the last minute, and since it is also significant that the report of this ministry must be referred to as the most superficial, we have spoken about the quality of these reports from this pult more often. So I don't want to spend the time repeating that. Since the last plenary session, however, a document convoluted, and it is interesting to know, by the way, that this document convoluted only the journalists and then the Parliament. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has a very specific way of dealing with journalists. But I do not want to qualify this more closely now. In any case, it was an anti-parliamentary procedure to give the journalists first of all the documents requested on the basis of a parliamentary request. Maybe something was expected of it! We see, however, that this has not worked quite well. The fact is that this document has not contributed to the clarification of the transactions. On the contrary: If you look at these documents, you notice: The murders, as you know, took place on 13 March. ==References== ==References== As you know, July is one of the main suspects. And from the Aide-memoire, that note of the United States, which was already published on 22 February. It was written in August when there was still a suspect in our country, namely Bosorgian, that the United States clearly assumes that the three suspects are the perpetrators. And Austria is called upon in the diplomatic language, but still unmistakably, to finally take action. At that time, the then Minister of Justice Foregger assumed that the arrest warrant against the Bosorgian in Austria should be lifted. That's what I'm asking myself: How does the Austrian Minister of Justice - and that at a time when there is clear suspicions in a note - come to the view that it is not necessary to turn against these three or at least against the one who was still in the country at that time, or to issue a warrant against him? What is still characteristic is the language used at this time. It is very strange to me that in a report by an Austrian official – it is not clearly recognizable, but I assume that it is the ambassador with the United Nations was – reported to the Foreign Office about a meeting of the Iranian Foreign Minister Velayati with the Austrian Foreign Minister Mock, which took place in October 1989. The murders are referred to in it as "an incident" – a very strange way of expression, even if it comes from the Austrian mouth – and all the registers are drawn to normalize the diplomatic relations "despite this incident", as it is so beautifully defined. Third point: The contacts between then Secretary General Kletil, then Minister of the Interior Lösnak and the Iranian Embassy for the security of the message show how intensive the talks were conducted. ==References== In December 1989, the then Secretary General Klestil, today's Federal President, called the Minister of the Interior. He told him that he had already ordered to reduce the security of the message. To this end, I must say: I – like all three opposition parties – had a conversation with the Federal President at a time when the files were already on the table. In the view of the President-in-Office, exactly these documents would confirm that he had nothing directly to do with this matter. . I see this differently and told the President of the Federal Republic of Germany. In my opinion, it would have been the least of political responsibility for the Secretary-General, if the Minister of the Interior said that the security had already been eased, to ask first of all for the reason for this step, to agree with his minister and thirdly to make his own picture of whether such a easing of the guarding of the message is also in order. I also believe that the role of both the Secretary-General and the then Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs of an investigation, which would also clarify the idea of political responsibility, must be shared. With one sentence: Those questions that we have discussed so far have remained open; they concern the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs as well as concrete persons. To the Ministry of Interior: What information did this ministry have before the murders of the Kurds and Iranians? – This question is inconspicuous, because it is about what could have been prevented at the time. It should be clarified what role the then Chief of Staff Schulz played, who, according to documents, intervened in a highly personal manner in order not to issue arrest warrants, since this could affect diplomatic relations; he warned of that. For what reason did Director General Danzinger loosen the security of the message in November 1989, so at a time when one could still believe that Bosorgian was in the Embassy? - All these are questions that no court can answer. It is probably not about abuse of power or the like, but about things which are subject to political responsibility. The Ministry of Justice: For what reason did the Ministry of Justice not issue a warrant against Sahraroodi, who left in July 1989, although at that time the Ministry of the Interior had already listed eight very concrete suspicions? Why has the Court of Justice's opinion taken so long, that is, until November 1989? And why – I am very interested, even if he is no longer a minister of justice, has Foregger been in all contacts up until then, whether with the press, with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or – and this should interest this House – with Parliament, ironically held on to the innocence of the three perpetrators? To the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: If this constant transmission of the threats of Iran has had an impact, has the pressure been exerted to stop the proceedings? To what extent has the Ministry of Foreign Affairs been involved in loosening the security of the message? And finally – that seems to be very important –: What role has the then Secretary-General Kletil, who is now President of the Federal Republic of Germany, played in all these things? I think there is a need for an investigation committee to assess the ways in which we can expect in the future. It could, however, in particular help to determine how we will be dealing with Iran in the future, whether Austria will find a genuine way towards such a regime.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e14637	Mr Anschober is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). From now on, the speaking time per Member is 5 minutes. Before I give the floor to the honourable Member, I would also like to draw a little more attention to those who have been placed between the seats. – Ladies and gentlemen! I'm asking for attention! Mr deputies, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e14664	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, also those between the seats! There is today a very different form of discussion on this request for the establishment of a committee of inquiry than during the last debate on this causa. Today, there is no blaze and no cry, but rather the second form, namely a theme "to get quiet", in the truest sense of the word, namely through passiveity and demonstrative disinterest. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Depends on what you say!]] [[Abg. Leikam: But you can't do anything right either!]] - Good. That is exactly what I wanted, Mr President, to see a little mood and interest arise and we are discussing this matter a little more intensively. The debate on this issue has been going on for almost three months now! [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: And always the same arguments!]] Looking back, I have to say: It has actually paid off in some essential areas. I think it was very important to have this discussion, and it will be very important to continue this discussion – for several reasons. In the discussion of the last few weeks, it became clear what role Austria, but also other states – and this too must be said very clearly and clearly – played in dealing with a terrorist regime in 1987 and thereafter. The Kurdish murders of Vienna are two out of a total of 32 political executions that have taken place at the direction of the Iranian regime. Dealing with this fact, with this phenomenon known to all the states in Europe, is a sign of how it stands about human rights policy and about a cohesive and committed foreign policy in this Europe. – I feel that relatively little has changed in this relationship. At the same time, this debate offered the opportunity to address the suspicion of a state-organized escape aid. In many areas, this suspicion – in which I give my previous speaker full meaning – is not yet clarified and not documented, and therefore no final judgment is yet possible. Three people – and I come to the negative aspects – are still completely open to crucial questions. These persons are the then Foreign Minister, the then Minister of Economic Affairs and the then Secretary-General in the Foreign Office. With regard to the then Foreign Minister, we now know that he has contributed to making Foreign Minister Velayati, who, according to the Mykonos judgment, has played a central role in the decision-making process on the political acts of terrorism; Austria and Foreign Minister Mock have contributed very massively and intensively to making these politicians stand-alone. As mentioned briefly, at a meeting between Velayati and Mock on the margins of the UN General Assembly, a twofold political murder was described as a disturbing "event" – "event" under quotation marks – which unfortunately disturbs political relations. It has not been made clear that the most inconspicuous need is, but in this file note – all of you have this note – it has been argued that one must regret this "event" – under quotation marks –, put it as far as possible, and he should not disturb relations. Secondly, The Foreign Minister of the time, diplomatically formulated this Parliament, gave at least some false information when he said in replying to the request for urgency of the Liberal Forum a few weeks ago that there had been no suspicion of a crime against the first culprit, against Sahraroodi, on his departure. That was clearly wrong! That was not the truth as documented by the files. Thirdly, The then Secretary-General at the Foreign Office, Dr. Klestil, has – this is an interesting fact in the new convoy of the Foreign Office – on 13 March. At the first interministerial meeting on July 1989, the language system was issued, and there was no pressure from Iran on Austria at that time. Dr. Löschnak! You have this language rule then according to the...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e14719	Deputies! The final sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e14735	... also represented in the press conference. To sum up, the processes, which in a positive case mean a kneeling of politics before the pressure of a terrorist regime, are, in a negative way, in need of clarification, because there is an urgent suspicion that what many media have been writing for days and weeks, namely that in this case it has been a state-organized escape aid by the highest Austrian governments, is not clarified but not demented.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e14768	No one is reporting on this. That concludes the debate. We shall come to the vote. I ask the honourable Members to take their respective place. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request by Mr Dr Schmidt and Mr Comrades for the setting up of an investigation committee. In the event of approval, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. We shall also proceed to the debate on the request of the honourable Members. Head and comrades on the establishment of an investigation committee on the investigation of political and criminal responsibilities for the failure of justice in the judicial investigations on the excessive settlement of the Karawanken motorway. This request has also been distributed to all Members. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e14848	We are going into the debate. I refer to the provisions of § 57a of the Rules of Procedure. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Chief. Maximum speaking time: 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e14873	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The Causa Karawanken motorway seems to be an infinite history of the Second Republic. Born from a State Treaty of 1977, it is today, almost on the day exactly 20 years later, still to be found in all the media, but now not only as a building that finally completed the gap between our neighboring country Slovenia, the Tauern motorway and the South motorway, but rather as a cause for frustration, Malversation and failure. The construction of the Karawanken motorway was examined by the Court of Auditors and in February of this year the Court of Auditors discussed the relevant report submitted by the Court of Auditors. In the meantime, not only five months have gone into the country, but also in Carinthia, the Committee of Inquiry has resumed its work at the time. The officials of the Court of Auditors have informed the Committee that since 1995, since the 7th century. In June 1995, an advertisement at the Klagenfurt Public Prosecutor's Office is to investigate the crimes which have obviously been committed in connection with the construction of the Karawanken motorway and to make the guilty firm. The chronology of events is clear. ==References====External links== ==References== On June 3, 1997, Dr. Eckel, a Member of the Board of Directors of the Federal Ministry of Construction and the Ministry of Justice, in his statements before the Carinthian Investigation Committee, held in Carinthia, but also in other Austrian media, such as the "Small Newspaper" of the "Small Newspaper" of the 3rd of June 1997, that the day Dr. Haider was assembled as a Member of Parliament, why the confessions of the construction technicians in connection with the Court of Auditors had never been mentioned and why the Office of the Carinthian Government on the extension of the criminal proceedings had not been agreed on by now six defendants until the beginning of this recent investigation. July 1997 – clearly formulated and established. What happened? – The Court of Auditors was set up by the ÖSAG in 1994 to investigate the obvious inconsistencies in the settlement of the buildingless "Winkl" and "Rosegg" and to determine the damage to whom it was caused due to incorrect procedures by whom. In March 1995 the final meetings with the country of Carinthia and the OESAG, the leading body, were concluded on and on its own. Only a detail area from the building "Rosegg" was still open. In this context, two construction technicians reported to the investigating Court of Auditors and gave them on 30 July. In a protocol agreement before the Court of Auditors in May 1995, it was known that they had been required by their superiors, as they formulated it, to "company-friendly accounts". In some cases they had decided to sign the bills, but in others they had refused their signature. The fact is that, on the basis of the statements made by the Court of Auditors between the Court of Auditors on the one hand and the OESAG on the other, it was agreed to continue the investigations in its own field, the protocols which took place on 30 June. ==References====External links== In June 1995 the officials had the documents of evidence which were still known to the Court of Auditors at the time, where they were kept and to be found. However, contrary to this agreement between the ÖSAG and the Court of Auditors, a consultation was held on 2 February. On 6 June 1995 between the Ministry and the Court of Auditors in which the Ministry had been concerned about these recent investigations after the final meeting. In June 1995 the OESAG and the Ministry of Economic Affairs issued an advertisement and at the same time to publish this fact. This publication led to the failure of the Court of Auditors to ensure that, according to the statements made by Dr. Eckel in front of the Kärnten investigative committee, the Court of Auditors then turned to the Public Prosecutor's Office. The Court of Auditors Dr. Eckel said: At that time, I had not lost faith in justice. What happened to this 1995 announcement in Klagenfurt? – She was initially assigned to the competent investigator and, according to her information, a request for a house search at the construction company Universale was sent to the criminal authority of the country of Carinthia. The officials of the Klagenfurt Criminal Division have clearly and clearly stated before the Carinthian Landtag Investigation Committee that the judge's project has never been met by the Criminal Department. However, in order to surprise the criminal department, the company to be investigated was established on 7 July. June with the question of when the house search will finally take place, since – this has resulted in the approximately two months-long surveys of the Klagenfurt crime department – the construction company with registration or RSB letter had been pre-informed by the judicial authorities about house searches in its area. It must now be assumed that these inconsistencies have been resolved under the highest pressure. ==References====External links== In addition to an expert in civil engineering already established in the first stage of the process, it was agreed on July 1995 to involve an IT expert, as well as the accounting report, since the construction of a newly introduced computer system was carried out, but this expert is still not used until the beginning of this week. A computer billing investigation has not yet taken place. On the contrary: For more than a year, the court in Klagenfurt remained inactive. The judge was waiting for the search to be carried out, and the criminal department was waiting for the judge's localisation. Since now in the public due to Dr. Haider's statement of 13. In June of this year it was announced that there could have been a failure in the judicial or criminal field, and the statements made by the officials of the criminal department and the Court of Auditors before the Committee make it clear that the failure is clearly only in the judicial field, the question arises as to who was the brakers who played together in this matter. What led ÖSAG and the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs, under the then Minister of Economic Affairs Schüssel and his State Secretary, to stop further investigations against the Court of Auditors, and to warn against the publication of the steps taken and to allow the removal of the documents? – In part, these documents were safe in the computer and would therefore not have been easy to eliminate, as other billing documents for construction projects would have been lost in millions. The judicial authorities, starting from the small authorities in Klagenfurt to the Ministry, have followed the path of reporting closely. For what reason has the ministry never asked why nothing goes on and tolerates a standstill of a year? Why has the Office of the Carinthian Government not been informed of the fact that at least the criminal department considers there to be more than the original three suspects, now six suspects from the district of the officials? In this way, why has the further suspects of crime been given the opportunity to remain active for another two years in their office – in control functions for the construction industry? In this context, who is interested in preventing the Enlightenment from taking place first, and perhaps never ending third in the appropriate form? Ladies and gentlemen! I am deeply convinced that the non-Completation of the report, the examination of the shortcomings by the 'Karawanken Committee' and...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e14903	The final sentence, please, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e14919	... the continuation and establishment of an investigation committee is an urgent matter of this Parliament. Our assistant body, the Court of Auditors, has reached its borders on this matter. A parliamentary committee of inquiry has other possibilities, which we consider to be a target, which is why it must be used immediately.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e14952	Mr Leikam has now been reported to speak. From now on, the speaking time per Member is 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e14973	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The Liberal Party's request to set up an investigation committee on the Karawankentunnel issue is indeed not a daily matter as far as judicial proceedings are concerned. [[Call the liberals: Then you agree!]] In my opinion, however, this request has an awful beauty error: A committee of inquiry should have or should have the content of determining where the political responsibility for certain events lies. And it is clear that, up to a very short time, free street builders were responsible for road construction in Carinthia. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: So it will be easier for you to agree!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Accept!]] I see this request as an escape forward. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Then it's true! It's easy!]] It is intended to be distracted from the political responsibility that lies on the side of the Freedom Party in this case, as is quite clearly seen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We've been on the 14th. The Court of Auditors' report on the construction of the Karawanken motorway was discussed in great detail on February this year in the Court of Auditors' Committee. On the basis of my request, the Court of Auditors' deliberations have been postponed, on the grounds of waiting for the results of the investigations of the Court of Auditors. – This is still the state of things. In the meantime, the Committee of Inquiry of the Carinthian Landtag has resumed its work. The statements made by officials of the Carinthian Road Construction Administration, but also by an official of the Court of Auditors, have shown circumstances that are really unique in their nature. It seems to be worrying that the chairman of the Freedom Party, who at this time, as a street builder together with Mr Mathias Reichhold, was the first to hold such a protocol. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Then make an investigation committee!]] [[Call the liberals:Research Committee!]] We will be in the Court of Auditors, where I hope,... [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! They could even see that no statements have been made by officials in the Committee of Inquiry in the Carinthian Landtag with reference to the court proceedings. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You're a little unhappy! That's phrases!]] What should such an investigation committee be good for? We will have to ask a few questions in the Committee on the Court of Auditors. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Make an investigation committee!]] I hope that the Court of Auditors will resume its deliberations soon. It would be pointless if the Court of Auditors presented us with a report which contains everything, but which lacks the main statements of officials from the State Road Administration. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Investigation Committee!]] It is clear after two years that the competent official of the Court of Auditors has known that officials have been required to sign protocols, but these statements are not recorded by the Court of Auditors in its report. It is reported about everything possible – but not about what was to be reported. We know that Mr President-in-Office of the Court of Auditors will be presented with raw reports from the executives and what is included in the final report, the President of the Court of Auditors will ultimately decide. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You just want to distract!]] And this protocol was also known to the President of the Court of Auditors at least at the time we had the Committee's deliberations. Since such a record was played in the hands of Partyobmann Haider a few weeks ago, who passed it on to the media, it is clear what game is going on there. We shall have to clarify this question in the Committee on the Court of Auditors, Mr President. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] What's in here are good words, nice words, but go by the situation! It can't be like that! Mr Anschober apparently received this protocol at the same time – the Chairman of the Court of Auditors is also known. [[Call the liberals:Research Committee!]] There is a game being driven, and with that we will not be satisfied, but we will show the connections! [[Abg. What do you want?]] Ladies and gentlemen! The responsibility will ultimately have to be borne by the speakers, we will also point out this!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e15165	The final sentence, please, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e15180	For what Mr Applebeck asked for in the construction of the Pyrn motorway for the Styria, namely that the responsible speaker, even if he did not know to bear the responsibility, should also apply to Carinthia.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e15211	Mr Wurmitzer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e15232	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Stadler, I would like to know from you where you are taking the pride you have shown here. You have never won a choice where you yourself have held political responsibility! You're nothing but a driver of the Dr. Haider! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The soup is too thin!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: You are the next one to remind us that we do not need a committee of inquiry!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The People's Party will reject this request for the establishment of a committee of inquiry. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] For us, there are three good reasons why we do that. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Investigation Committee!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] First of all, there have been since 22. June...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e15303	I call Mr Wurmitzer. Please respect this! Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e15325	First of all, there has been a committee at national level since the 22nd century. June 1995, who has previously worked impeccablely and has brought all the essential facts – including those you have – to light up to this day. [[Abg. May. Stadler: The Leikam has presented this differently!]] Secondly, there is a Court of Auditors report. The Court of Auditors has not yet completed this report, but we are at any time ready to resume the negotiations in the Committee and, on the basis of the new facts, also to invite new information. [[Abg. May. Main: That's good!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party! Thirdly, the competence lies clearly with the country. The President of the Court of Auditors has declared before the Committee – I quote from my personal contribution – that: [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Oh, you!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Oh, you!]] I consider it inadmissible to conceal competence. So they were – probably – there! And on top of that: The error was in the construction bill, and to examine this is the task of the office of the Kärntner state government. Mr Hofrat Tauchnig, the highest official in Carinthia, has also explained – I quote – that: In principle, this contract was a return of the construction to the team of the country. Ladies and gentlemen! Now I find the following statement: If the liberal speakers had taken their duty seriously, we would not need a Court of Auditors or a Justice today. That's fact! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: We will always need justice!]] Further: The findings in your explanatory statement on the request are in a number of ways wrong. They made the claim – I quote –: "In the course of the accounts, this suspicion was hardened by the country of Carinthia and the ÖSAG." - That's wrong! Nothing has been hardened by the country of Carinthia, but the country has audited the invoice and passed on to the ÖSAG with the requirement to transfer the money. ÖSAG was suspicious of itself, and Dr. Heu personally carried out controls. Only due to this finding of the ÖSAG were the payments discontinued and the suspicion was hardened. Yes, there is! [[Abg. May. Stadler: So, investigative committee!]] ==References====External links== In May a record was recorded, but only in early June the prosecutor's office would have been switched on. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's after an investigation committee!]] This too is wrong: The public prosecutor's office was commissioned by Minister Dr. Ditz on 22 February. May on! You don't know the essential facts! [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Then you have to investigate!]] They also note that the intervention of the public prosecutor would have hindered the Court's investigations. – This finding too is wrong! If you look at your paper, you can find: Just as wrong as the initial remarks are the following reports: And that's why you can't expect us to go with you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e15464	Mr Ing. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Reichhold. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e15485	Mr President. High house! My two previous speakers have tried to give political responsibility to the liberal. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Leikam.]] If you, ladies and gentlemen, want to do so, then there should be nothing in the way of consent to our request. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If you only throw us here, but then vote against it, Mr Leikam, Mr Wurmitzer, then that is simply and simply without character! We can't let that happen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Voices Let us ask you to do this. [[Abg. Leikam: We do not need a committee of inquiry! It's all known anyway!]] Dear Anton Leikam! You have made a very interesting statement here, because you meant that an official of the Court of Auditors made a very interesting statement before the committee of inquiry in the Carinthian Landtag. [[Abg. Leikam: Urgency!]] But you didn't say what he said! – The statement of the Court of Auditors – I can refer here to the protocols that were also printed in the "Small Newspaper" – was that the ÖSAG or the Ministry of Economic Affairs had taken the flight forward, that this had been done to the public, as a result of which the companies had been warned and as a result - literally quoted - "the surveys of the Court of Auditors were severely impeded". [[Call to the liberals:Aha!]] That's how it looks! Why don't you say that? It is very easy to give the liberals the blame, while fear that everything will be revealed in a committee of inquiry! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The motorway is a federal road, and you will not succeed in making a federal scandal in Carinthia! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! What else should be said in the plenary session: In May 1995 criminal proceedings took place. 13 months later, the first house search warrant of the court took place. A day later, the company to be searched was warned by the court itself – by the court itself! – with a registered letter with a copy of the house search order. However, this house search warrant had not yet been signed! It happened a day after it had been arranged by the court! A week later, the criminal department writes that a house search due to the warning actually has no meaning at all, because the documents would be vacated. [[Abg. May. Stadler: What does Wurmitzer say about this?]] And now it comes: Nine months later – not a day or a week after that, but nine months after that! – the competent examiner calls for the report from the search of the house, which did not take place at all. The criminal department then writes back and says: Mrs. Investigator! We actually wanted experts and experts to be involved in the search. – And only because of these processes was the scandal revealed by Dr. Haider in a newspaper. In a kind of panic reaction, the judge then ordered a house search order eight days later, but without experts. – That’s where it says itself Her own head of state, Mr Wurmitzer, says that there is an unexplainable error of justice for him. [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is a scandal of justice!]] This is also confirmed by the Minister of Justice! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It's not just a road construction scandal, it's a clear judicial scandal! That is why we want to investigate these incidents. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It will also be to investigate who the brakers are. I quote the second President of the Carinthian Landtag, Mr Wütte of the ÖVP, who said in the Committee of Inquiry of the Carinthian Landage that, on the basis of the recent statements of the officials, he suspects that the brakes are sitting with the companies and with the courts. – That is what your party colleague, Mr Wurmitzer, says. It is also interesting that those officials who are under suspicion today have, as it were, put pressure on subcontractors to sign invoices, are already working and buying out at road construction companies. – We would like to examine these events within the framework of a committee of inquiry. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We would like to know: Is it true that the Court of Auditors was on record before the Carinthian Committee of Inquiry that the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs, under the then Minister of Economic Affairs Schüssel, has severely impeded the surveys? [[Call to the liberals:Aha! Listen! Listen!]] We would like to know if this is really about a judicial scandal.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e15610	The final sentence, please, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e15626	My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! My conclusion is: We also want to know where the brakes are. – I hope not here in this house!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e15656	No one has been reported in the word anymore. That concludes the debate and we shall vote. I ask the honourable Members to take their place. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the honourable Member. Head and comrades on the establishment of an investigative committee. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done by the minority. The request is therefore rejected. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e15695	I now announce that in today's sitting the self-employed applications 506/A to 513/A have been submitted. Question No 2651/J to 2691/J has also been received. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for Wednesday, 9. July 1997, 9 a.m. The agenda can be found in the written communication distributed in the hall. Mr Rosenstingl has reported on business treatment. Please, honourable Member. Amendments to the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e15732	Mr President. I raise objections to the agenda of 9. ==References== I request that the item on the agenda be replaced by item 11: Report and request of the Transport Committee on the draft federal law amending the Civil Service Law and the Wage Act. I am looking for a debate.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e15761	You heard the objection. I am not in favour of this objection. It therefore has the High House to decide. In the debate which has now been held in accordance with § 50 of the Rules of Procedure, I limit the number of speakers according to Abs. 1 of this provision to three. I limit the maximum speaking time per speaker to 5 minutes. Member of Parliament has been reported to speak. Please, honourable Member. Maximum speaking time: 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e15795	High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is unbearable for us to be free, as the government coalition is constantly trying to misuse the Rules of Procedure, because of its smoothness, disunity and inadequacy. An §-27 application was submitted to the Transport Committee to amend the Civil Service Law and the Wage Law. It is only about matters relating to the postal sector in terms of content. This request is not in any context related to the Telecommunication Act, which was on the agenda in the Transport Committee. What was the reason for this request? – The government coalition has come to realize that there should be some changes which are now retroactive with 1. It will be decided on July. It was also very significant how these negotiations took place in the Transport Committee: Within the last half hour of the last day, three different applications were submitted to the Transport Committee. A request was submitted and withdrawn, then the second request was submitted and withdrawn until the third request was finally put to the vote about 15 minutes before the end of the Committee on Transport. However, as you know, ladies and gentlemen, an §-27 proposal must be in a context in which the item on the agenda is currently under negotiation. A loose connection is not enough: There must be a clear context of content. If one now looks at this Service Law and the Wage Act and the amendments, it becomes clear that it is a matter of amending Service Supplement Groups and of re-introducing or amending Use Groups; other definition requirements are also dealt with in this application. But this is not in any connection with the Telecommunication Act! Ladies and gentlemen! I expect that at least the members of the committee of the government coalition have looked at the content of this telecommunications law. If they have done so, they must insist that none of the sections in any form are about service rights, groups of use or the like. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kukacka.]] Mr Kukacka! As the leader of your party's political groups, you should know that the Telecommunication Act deals with the new Telecommunication Act in 15 sections and 128 sections, but that none of the paragraphs in any form concerns service, user groups or the like. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am therefore firmly convinced that this is really a one-time abuse of the Rules of Procedure. I do not use the word 'one-time' in this context with the meaning that you have never done anything like this, Mr Parnigoni, but I think that your behaviour in this regard is unique in its sense. For there is no even a loose connection, except that they can say that the post may have something to do with telecommunications. But user groups, definitions and any other salary regulations certainly have nothing to do with this law! Mr Parnigoni! [[Abg. Parnigoni: You see this wrong!]] I don't see this wrong, but you all don't deal with laws that we decide to do! Unfortunately, this is your problem as committee chairman: You didn't even make an answer to my guard! You just said: I take note of that anyway. You have not even been able, as committee chairman, to disprove my remarks in any form in committee. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This clearly shows that I am perfectly right: This §-27 application is illegal to business regulations! Ladies and gentlemen! If you take the Rules of Procedure seriously if we take each other a little seriously in this House and if we do not want to conduct our committee negotiations ad absurdly, I would really like to ask you to withdraw this item from tomorrow's agenda so that we can act in accordance with the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e15857	Mr Klubobmann Dr. Khol has now been reported to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e15887	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make one point to my previous speaker: Amendments are often made very short-term, and sometimes time is so short that it is almost unbearable. This happens regardless of the Ministries, but one sometimes becomes, because the business is the way they are, not finished with the negotiations. I believe that all of us should have an interest in - and I am trying to live up to this interest - that, in particular, the opposition groups will receive the applications not only in the committees but before. I try to do this, but – ultra pose nemo tenetur – sometimes it is outside the sphere of influence that a clubman has. Ladies and gentlemen! In the present case, this §-27 application was necessary to enable the post to undertake its restructuring in the early autumn. It is intended to create profit centers, and it was necessary to weigh goods whether or not the assignment of the service posts is now carried out or says: This was too late for the Committee to be able to do so only in September or October. In view of this consideration, I would ask you to understand that we have to give the post office the opportunity to take these restructuring measures, which are intended to relieve Austrian taxpayers. We will therefore not join your objections. Ladies and gentlemen! The §-27 proposal is, of course, the sharpest means that Parliament has, because in this way we can put legislative proposals in related matters. I think that is a means that we should all be jealous of. The fact that there are constantly problems with demarcation is obvious. This is a matter of decision by the chairman. The chairman was Mr Parnigoni in this case. . I assume that the decision that allocation regulations in the postal and telecommunications sectors have an internal connection with the telecoms law, in which full privatisation and competition are produced in this area. So we're not joining your objections. However, I would ask you to note that we have an understanding of this, and I will try to ensure that such short-term applications are no longer made.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e15922	Mr Klubobmann, Dr. Kostelka. Please, Mr Klubobmann. 22 20
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e15940	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The most important thing has already been said. The Telecommunications Act provides the legal basis for the future activity of all providers in the telecommunications sector. The postal service is the largest provider and, in order to fulfil these tasks, it must also change its own operating structure very substantially. This requires organisational measures, but also measures of a service nature. This is also the essential link between the Telecommunications Act on the one hand and the Civil Service Law and the Income Law on the other. In this context, therefore, the content and subject-matter of the matter is not sufficient. Mr Rosenstingl! Strong words do not yet make sure facts. If, in this context, you are committing abuse of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to ask you: Keep a little bit in the future with such accusations! [[Abg. Haigermoser: This is a bending of the Rules of Procedure!]] You have this request in the draft on 2 July. I'll get it on July. ==References== July in the Presidential Conference at 8.30 p.m. – here I have the minutes! – have agreed to your third president and your clubman Stadler. Please read on page 6 of this protocol. Agenda item 11 is listed there: Report and request of the Transport Committee on the draft federal law amending the Civil Service Law 1979 and the Wage Law 1956 (825 of the Supplements). This was agreed on the day before by the club directors with the participation of yours. Ladies and gentlemen! If you say here that you had only learned about this request half an hour before the start of the committee, there was a blatant abuse of the Rules of Procedure, then this is an argument that would require an attribute which would be eligible for regulation, and therefore I fail to mention it.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e15976	The next speech is by Mr Magistrate. Stadler ahead. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e15997	Mr President. High house! It is always a special problem when the detergent used is more unclear than what you are trying to clean. That is why, at the same time, the President-in-Office is still in favour of it. Mr Kostelka! You have now completely misrepresented the deliberations of the President-in-Office of the Council. Mr President. I'm asking you to be a witness now! At the time of the discussions of the Presidential Conference, the working paper of the club directors is available. I got it! This template does not appear in it at all. There is only one general addition that can be added to the agenda by means of circulars, with the exception of any §-27 requests in the Transport Committee. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Which you knew!]] [[Further call to the SPÖ.]] No, no, no, That was not five minutes and not half a minute of the debate. We have assumed that § 27 will also be observed, Mr Kostelka! Now, Mr Khol says here at the speaker's desk – admittedly cracked, but truthfully – that this was about a political weighting of goods. Such a position can be taken. But don't think that we would have agreed in the presidency on something that we are now criticizing, Mr Kostelka! You are ashamed of this statement to the President-in-Office of the Council. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Violent calls at the SPÖ.]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If you put such a thing to me, I still have a political understanding of it! But to the President-in-Office, who now has the presidency and cannot defend himself, you should refrain from such an inconsistency! You can now see this as a guide to your club activity. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Mr Kostelka! If you're so hot: § 27 provides for a clear context of content. And this context, which you can turn and turn as you wish, is not given, but has been produced by your committee chairman Parnigoni only through your own "mightiness", which is malicious. We will hopefully be able to clarify this in the next President-in-Office, Mr President. For if you bend the Rules of Procedure in this way... [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Mr Khol admitted. He spoke of political considerations. That's all right. But if the political considerations lead to a conscious bending of the Rules of Procedure in order to re-establish a coalitional failure or a lack of government and to re-establish government tensions, and serve you only as an alibi and is no longer respected, then we really cannot give it up! That means: The allegation remains that your course of action is blatantly contrary to business rules. You can't excuse yourself with all your constructs, which are truthful, of this accusation! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Why did you not object to the Presidential Protocol?]] You have today offered quite the last one to check the way in which your chairman of the committee, apparently on behalf of the coalition, has bended the Rules of Procedure! Mr Khol! I'm expressing my respect for your honesty! I'm grateful for that. But if you create the "constitutional" on every occasion, then you must at least, when it comes to complying with the laws... [[Abg. Dr. Khol: § 27 of the Rules of Procedure has nothing to do with this!]] I know you don't mean it so seriously by complying with laws! I would like you to tell me what your eye is, Mr Khol. I know you don't want to. I know that You don't mean it so seriously by complying with laws! On every occasion, you will strengthen the "Constitutional Arch"; the "arco constitutional" is your favorite construction. And in the light of that you go out and say: We broke the law, but that was a political consideration! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Your argument is very thin!]] Of course you broke the law. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Of course not!]] The context is not present. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: I proved it to you!]] Thus, § 27 of the Rules of Procedure was simply and simply disregarded. The "Constitutional Arch" is always used only if you want to play a bit of exclusion and if you no longer have any better arguments, but the law itself is far from being observed. Mr Khol! That was also said in your direction: Those who want to be detergents should at least remain clean on this question!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00080_d7e16152	No one has been reported in the word anymore. That concludes the debate. We shall proceed to the vote. I ask the honourable Members to take their place again for this purpose. I now ask those Members who want to take account of the objections, i.e. those who support the decommissioning of item 11 of the agenda, in order to be a sign of approval. – This is done by the minority. It therefore remains with the agenda for the next meeting. This is starting with a Question Time. This meeting is closed.
