ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00103_d7e631	I'll open the 103. National Council meeting for today, 10. ==References====External links== As prevented, as reported in the 102. Debates of the European Parliament Schweitzer, Wurmitzer and Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00103_d7e662	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Requests for deadlines
ParlaMint-AT_1997-12-10-020-XX-NRSITZ-00103_d7e820	I would like to inform you that the Members of Parliament have requested Rosenstingl and Comrades to report to the Transport Committee on Amendment No 649/A by Mrs Rosenstingl and others concerning a federal law amending the regulations on road transport in 1960, the driving licence law, the commercial regulations and the criminal code, and on Amendment 650/A (E) by Mrs Rosenstingl and others concerning measures to raise road safety specifically in relation to alcohol at the tax, each with a period of time of up to 11. In December 1997, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the Member States of the Member States relating to the Member States. I would also like to say that Mr Parnigoni and Mr Khol have asked the Transport Committee to report on Mr Ablinger's motion for a resolution 651/A. Barmüller, Dr. Khol, Mag. Gabriela Moser and comrades concerning a federal law amending the road traffic regulations in 1960, a period of time also runs until 11. In December 1997, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative The implementation of a short debate was not required. We therefore come to the vote on the above-mentioned deadline proposals, which I make separately. We shall first vote on the request, the Transport Committee for reporting on motion 649/A by Mrs Rosenstingl and others concerning a federal law amending the road traffic regulations 1960, the driving licence law and other laws, a period of until 11. In December 1997, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the Member States of the Member States relating to the Member States. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – The vote will be taken unanimously. The request was accepted. We shall also vote on the request for the Transport Committee to report to Parliament on Amendment 650/A (E) by Mrs Rosenstingl and others on measures to increase road safety, particularly in relation to alcohol at the tax, a deadline of up to 11. In December 1997, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member In the event of your consent, I ask you for a sign to be given. – This is also done unanimously. Accepted. Finally, we are voting on the motion for a resolution to the Transport Committee for reporting on Mrs Ablinger's motion for a resolution 651/A. Barmüller, Dr. Khol, Mag. Moser and comrades concerning a federal law amending the road traffic regulations in 1960, a period of up to 11. In December 1997, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done with a light of votes. Accepted. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for Thursday, 11. ==References====External links== The agenda can be found in the communication distributed in the room. The sitting is closed.
