ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e2027	Ladies and gentlemen! I can warmly welcome you and open the 99. Meeting of the National Council. The Official Protocol of 97. Meeting of 12. In November 1997, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. For today's session as prevented, MEPs are reported Dr. Haselsteiner, Mag. Virlinger, Ing. Maderthaner and co-ordainer. We are negotiating today, among other things, the budget chapter on agriculture and thank our colleague, Schwarzböck, very much for the presentation. [[At the beginning of the meeting, there is an apple in every place between the Members of Parliament and the members of the Government.]] [[The Salzburg delegates wear blue sweatshirts with the inscription "Salzburg für Olympia".]] Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e2076	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the resolution of the President of the Federal Government concerning the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following statement: Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs Dr. Wolfgang Schüsselwird represented by Federal Minister Dr. Martin Bartenstein. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e2106	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e2311	Before entering the agenda, I announce that the Members of Parliament have requested Dr Petrovic and Comrades to report to the Constitutional Committee on popular desire to create a Federal Animal Protection Act a period of time until 9. In December 1997, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, There is also a desire to hold a short debate on this request for deadlines. As this request is sufficiently supported, the short debate will be held at 3 p.m. The vote on the motion for a resolution will take place at the end of this short debate. Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (841 and 841 of the Supplements): Federal Finance Act for 1998, including investments (910 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e2339	We are now going into the agenda, the subject of which is the Federal Finance Act for 1998 and the investment plan. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e2360	The President-in-Office of the Council agreed on the duration of the debates as follows: A day-block speaking time of 9 hours in Vienna has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ 135 minutes, ÖVP 126 minutes, Freedom 117 minutes, Liberal Forum and Greens per 81 minutes. The speaking time of a member of the government who exceeds 20 minutes is to be counted on the speaking time of the respective group. Is there any objections to this proposal? - That's not the case. This proposal has been adopted. Advisory Group VIII Chapter 60: Agriculture and forestry (including economic compensatory estimate)
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e2396	We reach the negotiation of the Advisory Group VIII: Agriculture and forestry. Is there a need for reporting? - That's not the case. Then let's go into the debate. The first speaker is Mr. Ing. Reichhold. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e2426	High house! Mr President. Mr. Minister! I wish you all a blessed appetite for eating a hopefully fresh apple from Austria, a Styrian apple that is certainly very healthy. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] Federal Minister Molterer! They will not be tired of saying that Austrian agriculture has managed well to join the EU. However, reality looks something different: The incomes are falling, the prices are in the basement, the compensatory payments are running out, the amount of the budget is therefore falling by 3 billion schilling and is now only 3.2 percent of the total budget. The Institute of Economic Research predicts gloomy prospects for agriculture, especially with regard to the enlargement of the East and the Agenda 2000, which has recently been presented by your party friend, agricultural Commissioner Fischler. I mean, you didn't tell the farmers the truth about what happened to them before EU accession. They have left them unclear about the challenges they will face in agriculture, and this is reflected in various comments in the newspapers. Approximately: A respected journalist from Salzburg publishes in the "Salzburger Nachrichten": "The traitors of the peasants," he says: Austria's farmers' representatives have betrayed the Austrian farmers and driven them into the crisis. – That is true, ladies and gentlemen. 8,000 jobs have been lost last year, 10,000 in the accession year. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The number of jobs destroyed is increasing year after year. Farmers no longer find jobs in rural areas, so the path to poverty is for them, as shown in an ORF contribution in the show "Am Schauplatz". Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! Agenda 2000 also precipitates its shadows. Then: How will you explain to taxpayers that in the future 100 percent of farm income is subsidies and subsidies? How will you explain to the Austrians, especially the farmers, that they have to produce at world market prices in our climate-favourable area, even in the light of the fact that the income losses for farmers cannot be fully offset and that, to date, the agenda does not provide for a guarantee declaration to ensure them in the long term. We liberals are therefore saying a definite no to these plans from Brussels. We reject this peasant destruction! Federal Minister! I am really trying to ask you not to try to compromise, not to discuss some kind of premium. No, you have to use your strength in Brussels very decisively against this destruction programme in order to secure jobs in Austrian agriculture. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We liberals want nothing to do with this kind of politics. We want to get out of this common agricultural policy, at least in individual areas, in order to achieve renationalisation in order to ensure income in Austrian agriculture; with a new system of support, which is not based solely on the size of a farm, but on the farm of the workplace. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The eastern extension also precipitates its shadows. Have you thought that there are more farmers in Poland alone than in the whole of the European Union? What's going to be Are you going to do with these people when they become unemployed if they have to adopt the common agricultural policy, which is geared towards industrialization and destroy the small-scale structures? Keywords: World market. Federal Minister! They say that's a challenge for us. I would ask you finally to ensure that the conditions of competition within Europe are compatible with Austria. The diesel price in Austria is twice as high as that in Holland or Germany. The AMA marketing contributions are twice as high as those in Germany. VAT is much too high for flat-rate farmers in particular; the promised adjustment has not yet been made. They obviously do not apply to the Minister of Finance in your government; after all, it is about 1.75 billion schilling annually. The social security contributions will be increased contrary to the recommendations of the §-7 Commission. Farmers are being made worse with regard to their pension provisions. The transferees are overburdened by new health insurance contributions. But that's not enough, you're talking about increasing the unit values, raising the basic tax. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Minister! What you're doing here is an outrageous fraud to the farmer! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I quote Barazone again: You have long forgotten all promises. Day after day it becomes clear that the fate of the farmers is indifferent to them! – This is not a statement by Reichhold or the Freeman, but that is Barazon in the "Salzburger Nachrichten". That would have to give you some thought. – I think this budget can also be seen from this point of view. Mr President, Mr Schwarzböck! What do you do if the chambers get more money now? What is the benefit of farmers if the social security institution does not pass on the benefits they seek in connection with the cooperation with the local health telephone to farmers by means of contributions or by increasing the scope of benefits? Is it really necessary to return 279 million to the agricultural bureaucracy in the ministry "to go in"? I think you should finally put emphasis on this because you are financing the bureaucracy and burdening the farmers! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! Another word about the cooperative system – in no other sector can be seen so precisely that homework has not been done. Millions and millions of millions, hundreds of millions of millions of people now have to be put into the renovation of their maritime companies by the Raiffeisen organisation – this should have been done a long time before accession to the EU – after all, if you had released the cooperatives from this forced jacket of the social partners and the regulated market earlier! –; Hundreds of millions of schilling, which could now have been put into an offensive of the export industry, in the construction of new international brand products! Where is Austria's fine food shop? [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: (showing an apple) Here!]] Where are our export success, Mr. Federal Minister? – You may have exported mass, but the agricultural trade balance has clearly deteriorated! Before joining the European Union, they went about 300 million consumers waiting to be cared for by us. It's different than you imagined: The market has conquered us and not we have the European market! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Although our processing companies are trying, I admit, they have not deserved anything in exports, Mr. Federal Minister! They always say that we have an excellent starting position that we can export to Italy and Germany. The agricultural market Austria is trying to open up new markets there, but the figures speak a different language, Mr Federal Minister. The agricultural trade deficit – you have always lamented the 10 billion before accession to the EU – has worsened very much to the detriment of Austrian farmers to 19 billion! That is why I believe that you must finally give up your possessions in the cooperative sector, as the "Bayrische Wochenblatt" writes. In recent years, they have tried to prevent structural adjustment with action by means of functional and pseudo-managers, as it is called here, out of pure egoism and regional power efforts. Many functionalists and managers of the time today are equipped with a princely pension. - So the "Bayrische Wochenblatt". I have to give the author the right, because you are still providing for your officials there today, such as the Landtagsreiter Hofbauer from the Waldviertel, former managing director of the Molkerei Gmünd. The dairy is no longer available, the employees and workers are no longer there, but Mr. Landtagsreitte Hofbauer from ÖVP receives an unemployed income at the NÖM de facto. He also has a job as managing director of the test ring and also deserves something as a countryman. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I can't! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] So provide your officials on the back of the farmers. Farmers have to pay the token! [[Calls of the Abg. Rosemarie Bauer.]] Federal Minister! The degressive compensatory payments for milk have in fact never been seen by the farmers, which have been used for the rehabilitation of the old loads in the cooperative system. We shall therefore insist that this cooperative system be reformed and amended, through a reform of the cooperative law, ladies and gentlemen. [[New condolences with the liberals.]] In conclusion: Federal Minister! We will observe very closely the priorities you will place next year at the Council Presidency of Austria in the European Union. We liberals believe that the focus must not be on making a kneefall before EU bureaucracy, before the Commission, or even in front of the world market. We are concerned with securing as many jobs as possible in the field of agriculture as possible, maintaining rural areas as a quality of life and ensuring a future for our young farmers.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e2521	The next speaker is Mr Schwarzböck. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes, maximum speaking time: 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e2543	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Member of the European Parliament Reichhold has just once again shown on two examples how unorientational the positioning of the FPÖ in connection with the farmers and their livelihoods is; I would like to clarify this in all its clarity. Mr Reichhold! If you characterise a very good series of articles of the "Salzburger Nachrichten" on the basis of a final comment and article by the editor-in-chief Barazon and accuse the Minister, the ÖVP-Agrorpolitik, the Farmers' Federation, of the chambers of betrayal to the peasants, then you will set your goals with those of editor-in-chief Barazon, who made the statement that the farmers' representatives and ministers should have told the farmers years ago that they do not have a future and that they should ask them to go from the courts. If you repeat this accusation of Barazon in this way, then you identify with this liberal principle, which is for the editor-in-chief of the "Salzburger Nachrichten". [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: This is what is happening, Mr President, and you have been silent to the farmers!]] I have so far recorded a more contrary view in the free movement of persons. They have structural-conservative models – starting from the Huber Plan to your positions on Agenda 2000 – and this is a different concept to the views of the editor-in-chief Barazon! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Since you have made superficial accusations to the cooperative bodies, for example in the area of milk collection and processing, I would like to say to you: In Lower Austria, due to the changes in the market, 17 dairies have been brought together in a company since EU accession. 750 million structural funds have been needed for this, and these have been spent. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn.]] Mr Prinzhorn! They would have to know what it means to bring together 17 companies into an operating society, to undertake site closures, to finance social plans. This is a difficult but everyday business in the economy. Their agitation went so far that at general meetings where these mergers were decided, you have opposed these measures because you represent concepts that should also be addressed in the processing of the international challenge with structural conservatism. [[Further call of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn.]] We represent a reasonable concept in order to act decisively in international competition wherever we want, powerful units, but of course also small-structured enterprises for niche productions in the high-price segment. We have never given us a black and white drawing, but we want to secure the right structures for the right objectives in a very wide range also for the future. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Axle.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The 1998 Federal Estimate, Chapter on Agriculture, Agriculture and Forestry, is marked by the fact that it is around 3 billion lower than the 1997 estimate, and this has an important reason: In the EU accompanying measures and in the decisions to give farmers a viable framework, a degressive price compensation has been agreed for four years and the degressive price adjustment will be substantially reduced by this amount from 1997 to 1998. However, we have, of course, been able to fully implement our projects in our approach where we have started offensive counter-measures for the provision of EU accompanying measures. The financing of environmental services and promotional recognition of important environmental services in the Austrian agriculture and forestry sector will be increased in 1998 and therefore better honoured by farmers. I should like to congratulate the Federal Minister and thank him for having succeeded, after difficult negotiations, in addition to the ÖPUL programme, a programme for environmentally-oriented Austrian agriculture, which was launched in 1995 and has now been implemented for three years, an addition to 1998, a further development which now allows many farmers who have been waiting for this programme to re-enter. In view of the difficult income situation of green farmers, we can do much better to honour their environmental performance for 1998. I am glad that this will allow us to continue our offensive path as a result of the structure of the Austrian agriculture and forestry sector, the Austrian basic consensus, to develop an environmentally oriented agricultural agriculture. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian farmers or the Austrian agriculture and forestry can rightly demand predictable framework conditions and continuity. We have not pressed ourselves before international challenges, before changes in the context of EU accession, we have adopted them offensively. For the first four years, the Federal Government and the state governments have granted us a framework agreement with 40 billion Schilling on federal and state funds. In the context of these budgetary negotiations between the Federal Minister for Agriculture and Forestry and the Minister of Finance and in the meantime also with the financial representatives of the federal states, it has become possible to extend this pact or package by 40 billion schilling to another four years. It is even possible to bring more money to farmers in this context, because the EU has now also increased its co-financing of environmental promotion measures to 50% of the volume in the long term and we find new opportunities. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Given the development of public budgets, the tasks imposed by public authorities in various areas of the economy, labour market security and similar objectives, financing and expenditure on agricultural policy are, of course, constantly in political discussion. In recent times, more and more opinions have articulated in the public. The reform and further development of EU policy, including agricultural policy, must lead to a reduction in expenditure on European agriculture, because it would not be possible to spend around 50 percent of the EU budget on farmers in the long term. Ladies and gentlemen! There are very many desires in this context. I would like to point out to you the possibilities for such a policy. The EU budget represents a total of 2.36 percent, as measured by the public funding power of the 15 Member States. If we now combine the shares of agriculture, both the EU expenditure and the expenditure of the national Member States, and put it in relation to total expenditure, then it is 1.99 percent. I have made a test and I have asked many who have participated in this discussion personally, where they believe that the ceiling for the financing of agricultural agriculture should be. I did not find any interlocutors outside the area of agriculture who participated in this discussion, which meant that it could be less than 10 percent. That makes it clear: Alone with savings in The agricultural sector is neither the enlargement nor the solution of labour market problems in the European Union and its Member States. We can only hope that the strong Communityization of agricultural policy will be imitated in a very deep integration. In any case, this percentage will move towards a more objectively comparable approach. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I can only say: In this 1998 proposal, we see very important flanking measures for farmers in times of motion. We are convinced that the important European development in the 1998 budget year, namely to come to a common currency, is in the fullest interest of farmers. In this way, we will have more objective economic opportunities in the high level of Community integration, in the internal market, more fairer conditions of competition, and above all an even greater degree of political and social stability in this Europe. No one needs this more than the sustainable farmers.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e2613	Mr Ing. Reichhold. I would ask you to describe the facts to be corrected and to compare them with the actual ones.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e2638	Mr President. High house! Mr Schwarzböck said in his speech that about half of the EU's agricultural budget would be farmers. This claim is incorrect! [[Abg. Kiss: He didn't say that! That's stupid!]] [[Abg. Schwarzböck: Listen next time!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] I'll wait until the gentlemen calm down. Again: This claim is incorrect! [[Abg. Kiss: That has not been said at all!]] From this budget farmers receive only a fraction, the rest goes to the agricultural bureaucracy, to the exporters, to the warehouses, to the processing industry. I think it is important that this be made clear to the public.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e2721	I have to apologize. I do not think that Mr Schwarzböck's speech is in such a way that I can judge whether he has actually said so. I'll take a look at that in the minutes. The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Barmüller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e2751	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! To avoid misunderstandings at the outset: All in all, I would like to talk about agriculture, not just farmers. Farmers are, of course, the most important or the first area to deal with, but they are not the only area. I believe that the reform of the agricultural sector is a reform of the structures, but also one of the meta-structures, i.e. those in which production is concerned not only, but also the processing, the production and, ultimately, the way in which, as Mr Schwarzböck has already mentioned, more competition. However, I do not mean, Mr Schwarzböck, that more competition in this area contributes to ensuring the livelihoods of our farmers, not because I would be against competition, but because the structures in which Austrian agriculture is currently being run are simply not competitive with those structures against which it has to compete. I therefore think it is necessary to ask very carefully and see in which areas the measures to be taken to lead those restructurings which enable Austrian agriculture to take a really competitive position. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lukesch.]] In reality, what needs to change is a real structural break, Mr Lucisch, in relation to the... [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: What does the patent recipe look like?]] Mr Lukesch! I know you'd like a patent recipe. I will confine myself to showing you in which areas of interest are key to action. In fact, what is led under the pretext of the preservation of farm-structured agriculture and forestry is aimed at securing those structures that are dominated by Raiffeisen and which are dominated by other organizations known and close to you. But this is a fundamental contradiction to the preservation of agriculturally structured agriculture! That this is one of your goals is undisputed, because it is set out on page 49 of your government agreement – in case you no longer know, I brought it to you. However, this is only a goal you are striving for in the field of agriculture and forestry: the preservation of agriculturally structured forms of organization. The second area you have in the Government Convention... [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: (keeping a document in height) Do you think so?]] I have it here in a different form. But look! You will find it in the Agriculture chapter. There it says: The preservation of farm-structured agriculture is an objective of this federal government and of the coalition. Making agricultural support social is an objective of this federal government and of the coalition. Quality orientation in food production is a goal of this federal government and of the coalition. – These are three areas addressed, including in their relationship to EU structures. Ladies and gentlemen! You will have to admit to me that these objectives are not in the mainstream of actual development in the field of agriculture and forestry. [[Call the ÖVP:Bio peasants!]] No, no, no, If you look at what is currently happening in the field of genetic engineering, what is done with the information on the ingredients of food and the like, then you will find that these objectives do not meet the actual developments. It may be that they are all politically in the mouth, but they are not in line with actual developments. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lukesch.]] It would rather be necessary, Mr Lukesch, to make a really proactive agricultural policy which ensures exactly that. Let us take a closer look at this goal: What does the preservation of agricultural and forestry structures mean? . This means that farmers in Austria must also be more aware that they are entrepreneurs and that they are not only allowed to depend on the cooperatives of which they refer and to which they supply everything, but that they have to put themselves much more on their own feet. This is also happening in many areas, since I am right in giving you, but always against the resistance of those structures, in which the political parties, in the end, also exercise a non-indebted influence. If I say, the political parties, then, of course, I mean the ÖVP primarily. That's their immediate range. I can prove it, too. In the field of renewable energy sources, for example, where it would be important to have at last a right of access to public networks and fair tariffs guaranteed in the long term, it appears that the Minister of Economic Affairs has not yet been willing or at least politically unable to meet the resistance, in particular against those of national energy suppliers, to create fair framework conditions which would ensure additional income for farmers with biomass and biogas use. Now Mr Molterer has met with Mr Bartenstein and said: If we have not even planned the 3 percent for renewable energy sources in the new Energy Economic Act, namely from the application, then it will be necessary to do something there, especially in the field of agriculture – therefore something has been done for biomass and biogas use, but nothing else – then it will be necessary to provide for a special funding for the two renewable energy sources biomass and biogas. That's positive! It is good that there is this promotion, although it cannot be doubted that, in fact, it has failed politically at other levels - because it has not come to a comprehensive right to feed into public networks, when it comes to electricity or near-heat, and to fair tariffs guaranteed in the long-term due to the interests of the land energy suppliers also dominated by the EIA in the country, Mr Deputy Head. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Header]] [[Abg. Head: Right to implementation?]] Of course! Because the national energy suppliers are monopolists. Member's head! It is not true that this would be a market. If it were a market, then there would be no question at all that it would be possible to proceed according to market criteria. But it is true that the energy supply sector in Austria is a monopoly company, perhaps an oligopol company, and that, when it comes to the national level, a political party has a very massive influence, namely the EIA. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Head: What's bad about that?]] As long as this is so, it is necessary to ensure, with fair conditions, that those energy sources which are emerging on the market do not have to compete against energy sources subsidized at other levels. [[Abg. Head: That's why the promotion!]] - Wait! – It would be necessary to provide for a general scheme in the Energy Economic Law. However, this did not bring the coalition together. Now, together with Mr Bartenstein, Mr Molterer, Minister of State, has opened up his own funding. But this support is not granted to the individual farmer, who wants to produce biomass heating and supply his operation with it, but primarily to the cooperatives. [[Further call of the Abg. Head.]] I am referring to what was to be read in the Salzburger Nachrichten. It reads: "The advertisers for the new eco-fund will therefore naturally consist mainly of the farming communities. Individual farmers who, for example, want to build a chopping plant for their farm for heat extraction are not worthy of funding. Similarly, individual companies wishing to use alternative energy only for their business." [[Abg. Head: What is this supposed to do in the E-Economics Act?]] - Wait! It goes on to say: "This makes it clear that this is aimed at a very different area than that one wanted to have a restructuring of the entire energy area, and only that would be an additional income base for the farmers." – This is what the Liberals also want, which was apparently not enforceable in the negotiations with the national energy suppliers. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] So that was just a consolation patch. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lukesch.]] I repeat once again, Mr Lucisch, so that there is no doubt about this: The fact that there is this promotion is better than that there is nothing at all! Aunt Jolesch said: "It's a lucky thing there is." But she also said: "God forbid everything that's just a good luck." [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] It is clear that, in fact, there has been a failure at all-Austrian level first and now a consolation pavement for farmers, a consolation pavement that is positive for this area. The fact that it is also favourable for the ÖVP's constituencies in this area is also favourable for the ÖVP's constituencies, has only been mentioned by the side. I am convinced that this was not the primary motivation to provide this support. I would now like to move on to the second objective, which has also been set out in the Government Convention, where it says: We need social criteria in agricultural development. It is true, Mr President-in-Office, that you will admit, that no one is now disputed, that farmers therefore need support because they can only try to cover their own costs in the farm with their farm. What they earn they deserve over the promotions. That's what I was told in Lower Austria by farmers – I've been talking intensively to the people there because I think it's not that we're just about to judge these things from the green table; You have this access, in particular to the metastructures, you also talk to the farmers, that is not a question – that they have problems and are happy to be able to cover the current costs for their farm. The farmers there say: If that goes out, it's okay, then we're good at it. But we need promotions to have an income over the year at all! But once we are so ready that the support is available to ensure farmers an income, a real income, it would be useful to ask: How can this minimal of existence be ensured in other ways? – The Liberals have made the proposal: Let us consider a concept of basic security! We do not think of a wide range of social benefits linked to much bureaucracy, but we say, in the sense of a new solidarity, that we want a basic guarantee for everyone! [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Is that a patent recipe?]] That would be something that, if one turned it over to agriculture, would lead, Mr Lukesch, that we could free all agricultural support from the hidden social components which they have undisputed. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Stop!]] But that would also mean, Mr Lukesch, that we would have much more transparency in the allocation and in the determination of promotions. As a result, we could... – honourable Member! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You want to overtake the Communists on the left!]] I didn't know you were saying such things in the morning – I'd say from my wait – because if you had looked at our concept, then... – Then I'm sorry! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Wage insurance without work!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: I looked at your concept! This is an unemployment income!]] But I will be happy to sit with you, and I will ask Mr Kier to do it once again to clarify the impact of our approach. It is not at all true that this would be a left-wing outside concept. That's something that makes sense. Because you are no longer in a position to close with your policies what is happening to social sheath in this country, it cannot be that you simply defamate new concepts, because you are not willing to think about their real consequences. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Head: Where does the steering effect of promotions remain?]] Watch out! The steering effect of promotions would naturally be given and could be concentrated on what it really is for. If one wants to promote renewable energy sources, one must not also pay attention to the farmers' incomes, but one could say from the outset: The farmers already have their income over basic security, and now you have to think about how to use the support, Mr. Lukesch, in order to have a farm-structured agriculture, how to support it with a support. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lukesch]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: This is a smooth plan economy!]] [[Abg. Head: So one more promotion!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: What distinguishes this from Karl Marx?]] Ladies and gentlemen! This would result in an end to the overarching discussions here in the House, where – and this is what we have experienced again in the current pension reform – all of a sudden officials of high age, Mr. Khol, are being made tougher, but in reality only meant that the class of those who have already been at the expense of younger generations – and among these generations I count – have secured an outcome that no longer stands in relation to the actual income of the people, does not want to descend from their privileges. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You are back-turned prophets! Your plans lead to the 19th century. 19th century! That's German idealism! Feuerbach! Karl Marx! This is your liberalism!]] You defend these privileges and are not willing to distance yourself from it because it is your constituency client. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] And then the Minister of State Defense will have to rely on the government bank – also as ÖAAB-Obmann – and argue in a split way. You must have noticed that the credibility of your side in these things has long been lost. That is why I would like to appeal once again to you, ladies and gentlemen, and I can... – Mr Khol, honourable Member, stay on the subject! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The crucifixes from the classrooms!]] I know you'd like to prescribe to people what they can do in their bedroom! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: release the drugs, that's your liberalism!]] You would like to look in and say: If you do something else, we will punish you! They cannot accept that people also have their own area. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's 68-year-old late reading!]] You cannot accept that not everyone in Austria is a potential criminal.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e3110	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to point out quite shyly that we are in the Agriculture chapter.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e3125	You see how far these basic positions of the EIA also play in agriculture, because you want to "raster" support monitoring from the EIA! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[General hustle and bustle.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Mr. Barmüller! Your bet is worth a better thing!]] Mr Khol! If I were to rely on your assessment of good and evil, we would all be lost, so I would not do so, but I allow myself to form my own opinion, and I have no interest in orienting my voting behaviour to who is standing up here in front of his place or who is sitting. [[Recent Congratulations at the Liberal Forum]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You can, but I can judge her!]] This will not be done by the Liberals, because we are in principle different in many areas. Today I would just like to talk about agriculture, because I want to work out how in many of these areas you are maintaining your structures – your raiffeisen structures that make the farmers dependent, the farm cooperatives that make the farmers dependent, the whole support that farmers make as beneficiaries of subsidies – because you need dependencies to get through with your kind of policy. This is a fundamental approach to your policy and is different from how the Liberals imagine it; and I would like to work it out today. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Thank God!]] I can show you this on the third example I would like to bring here today, which is also contained in the statement of government which you signed, but which you are not prepared to observe to this day. For example, it is also about quality orientation in food production. I remember once there was a consumer protection minister named Krammer. And this Minister for Consumer Protection, I believe, made a draft regulation in April on the labelling of genetically modified foods. As far as I know – the Federal Minister will certainly contradict me if it is not true – this draft regulation, although You are a government party for very strict and strict labelling – this is also to be read here, Mr Khol – although you promised to do so at the time, you have not yet solved it. [[the speaker keeps a folder up]] Since April, the signature under this Regulation has not been signed by the ÖVP. And now tell me, Why not? They do not, therefore, because in reality you do not want to help the organic farmers who exist in Austria, but rather to stand on the side of those structures, where the money is, where the dependencies are produced, because on these you are making politics in the rural area; and that is exactly what is objectionable to it. You say you want a farm-structured agriculture, but in reality you are making policy for those structures that make farmers in our country dependent. And we reject this from the Liberal Forum with Vehemenz. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Sonderer Schwarmer!]] Mr Khol! I am also saying this now because quality assurance in food production would require that we set priorities, in particular in the area of processing plants. However, this too cannot be seen in this budget, you know. As long as one does not try to establish standards not only in production, but also in the processing sector, the Austrian farmers will not be able to draw special value from their products for so long. This applies not only to agriculture but also to forestry. That is why this is one of the conditions that are not given. Ladies and gentlemen! Again: You have refused the clear markings to this day. When I think about what discussions we have in the special genetic engineering committee, I can only tell you that I am very skeptical today – very skeptical! – is whether we will achieve a good result in this context. [[Call the ÖVP: For a good one!]] We are therefore not going to get a good result because the announcement was that there should be very concrete measures and legislative proposals there. I believe it will be acknowledged to me that at the first session it has been shown that this will not be remedied. On the contrary, I am confident that the Liberals will also make proposals in this respect; I am only not confident that they will be taken into account in the right way, because we already see with the basic assurance that there is simply a willingness by the ÖVP to think about a new idea, because everything that is new could be dangerous to existing structures; and if something is dangerous to existing structures, then the ÖVP will once again close the ideological business. [[Rejoicing at the Liberal Forum]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Marxist concepts...!]] [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Therefore, to my summary: They stated three objectives in the Government Convention: Maintain agricultural structures, social support and quality assurance. But this is only happening – and I therefore agree with the Reichhold Member – through a break with those structures and their power, which dominate this area today in Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Here you come!]] Only: You can't do that, you don't want to do that, because it ultimately cuts into your party-political meat. That is why this reform, which you have taken, is one that is aimed at another area from the outset, and it can be noted that what you are doing about reform will benefit not farmers, but not Austria, but the structures that make these people dependent. You have already missed your political goals away from the start, and we Liberals will not give our support to our budget, in which this failure is reflected away from the start. - Thank you. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That will allow us to live!]] – But not for long, Mr Khol.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e3293	Mrs Gredler has made a statement on an actual correction. I would ask you to present the facts to be corrected and then to the Commission. Speech time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e3318	Mr President. Mr Klubobmann Khol said that we would overtake the Communists on the left. I'm correcting...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e3339	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Klubobmann Khol was not talking at all, so you can't actually correct him either. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You don't even know the Rules of Procedure!]] The next speaker is Mr Wimmer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e3369	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Back to the area of agriculture: Austria's agriculture in the European Community has been claiming for three years. Of course, this step has led to a comprehensive adjustment process throughout the agricultural sector, and the support systems have also had to be adapted and converted. But we are now slowly starting to go a way towards ecologisation, also at European level, where it is recognised because it is correct. Ladies and gentlemen! The budget for the 1998 Agriculture chapter has available 24 billion Schilling, which is actually 3 billion less, as the degressive compensatory payments – which have been carried out many times – have been exhausted or are completely lost in 1998. Now on the yield: As the income situation has improved happily over the last three years, we are seeing a rather reverse trend today. One should take several years of this income development, but there is nothing at all to be beautify: The situation is bad, and income has actually decreased since 1996, with mining plants hit particularly hard. Farms in disadvantaged areas – which has already been addressed today – are clearly the losers. What about income? – Income fell by 10 percent. Even more dramatic is the income gap compared to the Federal average. There is a sheer up there, ladies and gentlemen, who are really in danger of existence. It must be said that the miners have never been spoiled anyway, for farmers in less favoured areas are much higher anyway. However, I would like to add, fairly, that, with the 1998 OPUL, the funding situation will be slightly improved, and especially, green farmers will benefit more from it than before. I believe that this is a very important step, but it alone will not be enough to ensure a long-term comprehensive management. That is why we do not avoid continuing to talk about basic security. I think we need to discuss a kind of basic security really more fair than before, as we know how the income situation will be made in the future. It's so much like talking about a base amount: It is clear that this realization will be very difficult, but we will not get around. The repositioning of the European agricultural policy is currently an important issue in the European Community, and I see this as a huge opportunity, ladies and gentlemen. We must bring this basic security as our very central concern, this issue is addressed and represented with all vehemence. Of course, we must look for allies on this issue, we will not do it alone, but the allies are there. I am thinking of the French, who are affected by their central massif like us, I am thinking of the South Tyrol region, which has the same conditions as we do. We agree on this – in this respect there has not been very concrete statements for so long – that a base amount, a basic security must come. Federal Minister! You yourself referred to this problem in the last committee meeting. I am of your opinion that this base amount, as you have said, must be staggered and that, for example, farming, livestock farming must be necessary. Ladies and gentlemen! However, we have a huge problem with this story: Time is running away. The death of small farms is increasing dramatically. What's it look like? – The number of farms has decreased by 6.5 percent over the last five years; these were not large enterprises, not large units, but mainly the smaller ones. It was precisely those farms that are disadvantaged in the current support system, it was farms of a size of between 5 and 20 hectares. In the mining sector, the situation is similar. There was a total decline of almost 7 percent, with the main enterprises affected very hard by 24 percent. And the same picture: also businesses which are very seriously disadvantaged in the current support system. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This is a development that we cannot accept, but must stop! We are so often talking about comprehensive management. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This comprehensive management will not be possible if this development persists. This means that we will have to change the environment very quickly with various structural measures in the field of support. Whether we say redistribution, social staggering or – as it is often called now – modulation, it doesn't matter. If we do not succeed in improving support for our businesses, especially in disadvantaged areas, and if we do not give them the chance to survive in the long term, we can say goodbye to a comprehensive management. This would also mean that we have failed with our agricultural policy. I hope, Minister of State, that this will not happen. - I'm done.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e3430	Mr Wabl has now been reported to speak. – I ask you to tell us when you're done.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e3451	Mr President. I'm done sometimes, but not now. My speech will be finished in 20 minutes at the latest. [[Abg. Koppler: Well, I'll go have a coffee!]] [[General hustle and bustle.]] Mr Koppler, this is very nice. Although I thought I had in you a faithful follower and a faithful advocate of my agricultural policy ideas, if you prefer the "black", then I can't do anything. [[Abg. Koppler: You can then pay!]] [[General hustle and bustle.]] But then I have to... – No, I don't say that now. I would have said something bad soon. I don't know where this apple comes from, ladies and gentlemen, Minister... – From Styria, yes, it looks like the apples on our trees. [[Calls:From the Steiermark]] I don't know if he's from a bio farm, that hasn't been confirmed yet. Mr Kiss said that he didn't care about that, essentially, he tasted it. Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that the ÖVP has now come to blindly-worn activism and that Parliament is turning into a fruit act can be forgiven, because a party to the Styrian apple is always good whether it is happening in Parliament or elsewhere. But on the basis of this apple, we should discuss a problem, ladies and gentlemen. The question is: Does this apple come from a organic plant or from a plant in which integrated plant protection is operated, where in recent years a lot has been learned about it, where one operates with very gentle plant protection products, or does this apple come from a plant that continues to rely exclusively on the hard chemical keules? [[Abg. Zweytick nodd]] I exclude the latter. [[Abg. Zweytick nods again.]] – honourable Member Zweytick gives me the right. Ladies and gentlemen! The crucial question to be asked here today is: Has the Federal Minister for Agriculture and the National Council presented an agricultural budget and will the National Council decide on an agricultural budget, which essentially promotes ecologicalisation or supports industrialized agriculture in parallel?– That is the crucial question. After the last question I asked the Federal Minister whether it was a fundamental condition for the funding that an Austrian farmer or an Austrian farmer does not use genetic technology, not a genetically modified product, he said: No, that's not a basic condition. Federal Minister! This is the weakness of your policy: They try to balance interests – and that is the essence of politics. But the question is, whether you are sketching from your wait an agricultural policy guide, which makes it clear in what direction it should go. Although in Austria there is a huge declaration of will by the Austrian population on the direction in which food production, which is to go. There is also a clear rejection of genetic technology. The Federal Government also states that we are in favour of the fact that genetic engineering is not used in agriculture in Austria, with restrictions, but that all social policy measures should be decisively applied to it. Every farmer’s representative and every farmer’s representative must make it clear in the congregations where the trip is going. Ladies and gentlemen! And there's the big problem. We now have a Europe-wide debate on Agenda 2000, which will once again make a massive fall in prices. Ladies and gentlemen! This can only go in the direction of industrialized agriculture, except you think it wise to make farmers totally dependent on subsidies, subsidies and compensation payments. – That can't be your interest. As far as I know the agricultural situation and if I know the farmers' representatives in the ranks of the ÖVP, that was not the intention. The stated intention was to provide support to farmers in this difficult phase of conversion, restructuring, but above all ecologisation. As far as the procedure is concerned, it is correct to provide a clear agricultural policy guidance to farmers and to say that, as this is socially desired, budgetary resources must also be made available. But, ladies and gentlemen, if the balance of interests happens so half-heartedly, if it is not clear where the journey is going, I think, Mr Barmüller on this one point is right – I do not want to spread on the other points, but on this one point he is right – that, as far as the new opportunities in the field of alternative energy production are concerned, you are obviously giving up more interest groups that are firmly in control of the entire electricity market in Austria, which have the heating market firmly under control of the whole energy market in a kind of monopoly. These groups have much more to say in your party, and obviously the Minister of Agriculture is more effective than those groups which, in my opinion, are writing excellent concepts in order to create new, better conditions for the rural population in agriculture. Ladies and gentlemen! I could have come to the speaker's house today and our energy concept, that of Sascha Van der Bellen, by Langthaler, by the clubman of the Vorarlberger Landtage, Christian Hörl, and others, can introduce, but there are enough – not only enough but excellent – concepts from your area, ladies and gentlemen. I'm just thinking about the great biomass program from your series. It mentions 30 000 new jobs, which contains a very, very sophisticated, differentiated approach in the energy sector, in the promotion area, as it refers to the major decision made in the Toronto Agreement. But reality looks completely different. You do not resolve this contradiction, but you give in to the lobbyists. And this is the great accusation you have to make, and that is the great mistake of the agricultural policy, Mr Minister for Agriculture. Read this. It recalls a best green programme that could be made in the energy sector: more employees, creating 30 000 permanent jobs, reducing CO2 emissions by 4.5 million tonnes, improving local air quality, reducing energy dependence, increasing self-sufficiency by 5 percent according to this programme, an improved international trade situation. Mr Schwarzböck! That's numbers. These are facts. Serial experts have worked on this – only science alone is not responsible for the implementation of these things, but you, Mr Schwarzböck, you, Minister Molterer. Barmüller's right. They're giving in to the lobbyist. The implementation of this concept would bring about a strengthening of the regional economic cycles, the security of living in agriculture and forestry, of course also in all downstream and downstream farms. And, of course, less public expenditure! Mr. Schwarzböck! The unemployment rate would be reduced. They know that we have 8 000 to 10 000 people each year in the agricultural sector. If we look at this as a company in which some deserve very good and some very bad, in which some have to work very much and others less, then we have to say: In this company, 8 000 to 10 000 jobs are lost each year. Now the question is: Is that why they are lost because they are rationalized? - That's the case, too. But essentially, the jobs are lost there because a myth has arisen – the myth of globalisation. It is obvious that one can now see one's own businesses, one's own businesses, one's own businesses in part – we're of course trying everything to catch up with subsidies or subsidies, but essentially we're allowing products to come from other regions of the world, from regions where other ecological conditions exist, where other social conditions in which these products are produced with a huge amount of chemical plant protection products, with a huge effort in transport, which at the same time means increased energy costs, increased CO2 emissions, and then we're thinking about how these people, whose disappearances from the agricultural plants of Austria we've allowed, can get another job somewhere else. And then we're talking about large job creation programmes. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! EU enlargement is of course a command of the hour. I think Mr Vergestnitsch has been told about this because he said: Take care of EU enlargement. – Of course, every new political step requires caution, the question is: Why be careful? If in the Eastern European countries an attempt is made to achieve the ecological and social standards we have in Austria, and at the same time we come to a common market, then this measure is not only useful, but also more than necessary, economic policy best, in the sense of real rationalization, reasonable and economically profoundly approved. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What is happening now, ladies and gentlemen, is that we still have a huge amount of subsidies, with which we are essentially promoting those areas that are natural, increasing the volume of transport that accelerate agricultural demigration and promote environmental destruction worldwide. Ladies and gentlemen! This scenario must be met, but in most political areas we still have the classical, traditional answers. Let us just think about the transport policy we discussed yesterday. What is the traditional answer? – If more traffic, then more roads. Yesterday, the shift from the road to the railways and to the sensible urban concepts, the meaningful local transport concepts, of course, were spoken of here and also from the government side, but if we look at the concrete budgets, where, in the end, hard work is being carried out and fed with money, it is those traditional areas in which the environmental destruction continues, in which motorway construction continues to be forced, individual transport continues to be promoted, and cost truth remains, of course, also in this sector, which, in turn, has disastrous effects on agriculture. For this form of agriculture, this form of large, destructive subsidisation on a European and worldwide basis, can only be carried out economically and economically usefully for individual entrepreneurs if the state continues to make such a huge promotion programme in a senseless transport transit. This is the problem you do not want to recognize, or as to which you are at least too weak to enforce those interests that should appear to you in the sense of an ecological economy. Ladies and gentlemen! We will, if we continue on this path, perhaps in the European sector have a very interesting spectrum of sustainable organic farmers on the one hand and large industrial farms on the other hand, which gain their great profits with biotechnology and genetic technology. A few sentences on genetic technology and biotechnology, ladies and gentlemen. I have nothing against it, in principle, if it is discussed, or if it is done, that medications will be melted off by the cows in the future or won by the pigs. It certainly makes sense if a farmer has a cow in his stable from which he can dry off antibiotics or other medicines every day, perhaps in a value that the litre brings not only 4 s but perhaps 40,000 s. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Every glass of milk is a medicine!]] But the question is, ladies and gentlemen, whether this decision... [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Every glass of milk is a medicine!]] Mr Khol – these calls! They are familiar with the planning economy, but not in this area. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: I'm just saying every glass of milk is a medicine!]] Of course, every food is a medicine, that's clear. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Where's the difference?]] Ladies and gentlemen! If the use of genetic technology and biotechnology in the agricultural sector is large-scale, this will speed up a structural process which we do not want to do, which I believe you too, Mr Schwarzböck, do not want, but which is already fully under way. Of course, plant breeding has been associated with animal breeding, an ever-increasing process of monopolization in the agricultural sector. The biodiversity throughout the cereals sector, biodiversity throughout the animal sector has been reduced. [[Live calls to the ÖVP.]] Yes, because breeding is also a form of intervention into the genetic-evolutionary program. The question is, my Ladies and gentlemen, whether you have actually wanted the acceleration that you are bringing about, you have actually wanted it politically. [[Several Salzburg MPs, clothed with blue sweatshirts, dressed with "Salzburg for Olympia!" are printed, enter the plenary session.]] – I think just now the collected blue team of fruit consumers comes in! [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: No, that's Olympia!]] Ah, these are the Salzburg Olympics. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Yes!]] So, after the successful performance of the Carinthian team, first of all... [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Not all of us, Mr Gaugg, are sorry. [[Lively cheerfulness.]] This would be a safe Olympic disaster. [[Cheerfulness and applause at SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Wabl and Gaugg!]] [[Further calls.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It would be nice if Mr Schwarzenberger and his party colleagues came next time with the peasant gwandl and with the Sense and with the Sichel to demonstrate how hard they are for the farmers. [[Abg. Dr. Fuhrmann: No, that would be too dangerous!]] But he always does. He always comes in in the Styrian combat suit, as did Mr Khol. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Andreas, the Liberals come with Sichel and Hammer!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Sichel and Hammer fit better for the Wabl!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: But not if he has a hairdresser!]] Ladies and gentlemen! That brought me a little bit from my speech concept. [[Call: Oh, you had a concept.]] I am not used to it, ladies and gentlemen, that I am being interrupted by such activistic deposits in my speeches. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Usually listening attentively here is applauded, some people are excited about my calls, I get calls for orders, but that happens that I am being brought out so much, that I am not used to it. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] Let me say another sentence...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e3763	Ladies and gentlemen! On the fourth day of a budget debate there are certain group-dynamic processes, but we will also end this day. [[Rejoicing]] – Mr Wabl, please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e3784	Thank you very much, Mr President. After you asked me: Now I'm done.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e3821	The next speaker is Mrs Katharina Horngacher. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e3853	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! The 1996 Green Report is not expected to be so good after two good years; we have lost 4.4 percent. This is a consequence of the loss of degressive compensatory payments. Our Minister has now responded with the improved OPUL programme in 1998. It is the follow-up programme which increases premiums for the Greenland and also makes them dependent on the animal population. As a result of this reorientation of green land production, our green farmers are now benefiting an additional amount of about 300 million schilling. But, of course, the fight for the base amount is essential, and if we have a fellow fighter in Parliament Wimmer, we should only be pleased. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Tegian.]] Another important measure to safeguard our miners is a modern transport development. It contributes significantly to the security of life and to the improvement of living conditions, especially those of our miners. [[Abg. Tegian: (keeping a graphic in height) But the promotion for it has failed lower!]] I would just like to say to Mr Reichhold: The farmers are not indifferent – of course he has not said that they are indifferent to us, but that someone has written to him that they are indifferent to us – because then we would be indifferent ourselves. We are the farmers and farmers! In my opinion, the program of the Freedom Party would be a ruin to the farmers. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: Why? Why would that be a ruin to the farmers?]] In the "trend", Member Dr. Haider said that he wanted to abolish the funding. [[Abg. Wenitsch: You cut short, not the haider!]] He is clearly asked whether he is also in favour of the abolition of farm promotions, and he says that he is for that. [[Abg. Wenitsch: The Haider has not shortened anything! The ÖVP has been cut short!]] He wants to compensate for this with taxes, probably because the compensation of the tenants is paid, and not the owner, and he has leased his agriculture. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to say to Mr Wabl: We will not be able to stop global development either, but our agricultural policy has taken a path towards a natural economy. You'll be clear. In this year's Green Report, for the first time, it is a part of the situation of farmers. The results are derived from a 1996 representative survey, which shows: The farmers most appreciate in their profession that they can care for their children and the nature association, at least they appreciate the development that they do not receive a fair price for their products and thus become more dependent on promotions and policies. The report also shows that business decisions are clearly made in partnership. And that is, I think, a great achievement, for that was not the case ten years ago. For years, the Austrian farmers' organisation has tried to raise the importance of the farmer through further training and community care. 40 000 farmers participated in our events in Tyrol alone last year. That means that this organization is very much in demand. The holiday behaviour has also improved slightly, but it is not yet very good, because 59 percent have never been on vacation. I think we need to pay attention to something else: Young farmers today have a different profession first. After that, they want to have the same security and the same opportunities, and they must also be offered to them. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] On Agenda 2000, I would like to say: Equalizing prices to the world market level would be a threat to our farmers' existence. We cannot compete with the big farms of Argentina, because we have the highest environmental standards, the sharpest animal welfare laws, and in our mountain areas we have the smallest structures. It is simply not possible to be competitive. I am very pleased that, as part of the decisions taken last week, we have been able to increase and valorize the amount of aid and the weekly allowance for farmers. There you can only say: Steter drop hollows the stone. This demand has always come from all of us, and I would like to thank all those who have worked for it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The rural tradition, the peasant family as a stable element in society – we have the lowest divorce rate and the largest number of children – the farm that offers the best conditions for our children to grow up to livelike people – all this is in danger if we cannot secure the existence if it is necessary to produce at world market prices, because it will not be possible to absorb it through compensation payments. I am convinced, however, that our Minister for Agriculture, Mr Molterer, will do everything possible to secure our lives.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e3963	The Federal Minister is speaking and I give him the floor. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e3984	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to use the budget debate on the agriculture and forestry chapter to address, from my point of view, some key points of development, some of which have arisen from the previous discussion. I note again that from the point of view of farmers, from the point of view of the Austrian agriculture and forestry, there was no alternative to accession to the European Union and there is no alternative. In the knowledge that it is a difficult path, which the farmers' representation, which the government has never concealed or embellished, is nevertheless clear – and this has shown for the first three years – that the Austrian farmers and farmers of this route are also alternativesless. For example, in these market situations, it would be possible not to have the opportunity to export cattle, to keep in mind what it would be like not to have the possibility of the European market, such as cereals or dairy products, in this market situation, but to keep in mind what it would have meant in these times to depend on indebted partners, for example in our former export countries, see former Soviet Union. Anyone who claims that this is not a good way does not say the truth, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, it was clear that with the 1994 Europe Convention, the Federal Government must ensure that the difficulties are manageable and manageable for agriculture. This Europe Agreement will be implemented on a point-by-point basis and is the basis of the feasible path for the Austrian farmers. On the basis of this Europe Agreement, budgeting has been made in the chapter on agriculture and forestry, and this Europe Agreement is the basis for the budgeting of this year and the coming year 1998. On this basis, some 20.5 billion schillings are available for the support of farmers and our rural family farms. The Federal Government and the federal states have also made provision in good time for a new one to be concluded after the end of this Europe Agreement, this solidarity package. Therefore, I can tell you that the agreement has been reached between the Federal Government and the countries that this 40-billion schilling package for Austrian agriculture will again be available as a guarantee of its basis for the years 1999 to 2002. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, this change has also led to an increase in the importance of direct payments for agricultural incomes – yes! And I would remind you on every occasion that there have also been groups in this House which, in times of non-membership, have called for agricultural policy to be extended to cover direct payments. I therefore do not understand this criticism. What are the priorities of direct payments? – From my point of view, they are in the area of market regulation measures, the promotion of businesses in less favoured areas, such as mining workers, and the environmental programme. I am proud of the fact that we have succeeded in rewording the environmental programme, with which ÖPUL 1998 has a perspective beyond the turn of the millennium, and in particular in setting new priorities for green areas. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Of course, the focus is on structural policy, regional policy, such as investment promotion. It would be wrong if I claimed from here that everything was done and positive. No, no, no, There are still open questions that have been raised today. I am thinking, for example, of the cost structure of Austrian agriculture and of the insufficient competitiveness of the processing sector. It is therefore clear that, in the next few years, everyone is called to give additional impetus to farming in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to take this opportunity to address some of the issues raised in the previous debate. Mr Reichhold, who is not present now, has quoted an article from the 'Salzburger Nachrichten', which bears the title 'The traitors of the peasants'. This article was written by Chief Editor Barazon. I would just like to quote a few passages from this: The major and decisive error of the Austrian agricultural policy was the defence, the glorification of the small units. The agricultural policy has been trying for decades to save every farm, and in the EU it also adheres to this principle. - Quote. Ladies and gentlemen! If that's the accusation that's made to me, then I'll be called a traitor. What does this "punishment" include – under quotation marks? – That our objective of the agricultural policy is to maintain a farm-structured agriculture. And that is a goal that we want to pursue in the future too! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Agenda 2000 was also addressed. Agenda 2000 does not agree with us in the existing form because it does not address these questions of farm-orientated agriculture enough. It will therefore be our common task to influence and shape the reform concepts in such a way that they actually guarantee the foundations for agricultural agriculture – for this multifunctional agriculture. Mr Reichhold said something that obviously went down, but I would like to correct it clearly: Every schilling of degressive compensation in the dairy sector is paid to farmers, ladies and gentlemen! The claim that money would have remained in the field of processing plants is simply and simply wrong! Every Schilling has arrived at the Austrian farmers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Barmüller! A discussion about your statements here would be worthwhile. I would just like to give you three answers to your questions. Yes, improved competitiveness of the Austrian processing companies is good for the farmers. Do you know why? – Because only competitive farms can ensure optimal prices for farmers. Anything else claimed is wrong. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The Ministry of Agriculture has given impetus to the food report, which has given great attention to the whole industry. In concrete terms, we are working in industry discussions with the groups concerned. Mr Barmüller! Of course, it is right that the framework conditions for the energy sector can be improved. But it is certainly – and this is also said to Mr Wabl – a right objective of the Federal Government that I, together with Minister Bartenstein, now offer this eco-promoting fund for biomass, with which a clear focus on biomass has been set. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Barmüller! I am very clearly opposed to one of Your choice of words: Promotions, compensatory payments in agriculture are by no means "social benefits". Compensation payments for farmers are a wage for their work, are a payment of benefits. [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] A farmer who performs a service in the environmental programme is not helped with a basic assurance as you outline it because he provides the service on every hectare of land. A farmer who works in the less-favoured area does so by maintaining the landscape there. A farmer, Mr deputies, who, for example, does something in the field of soil and water protection, is doing a job. That is why I am in favour of further developing the performance of compensation schemes, as we have done with the environmental programme. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Wimmer! I, of course, support your wish – because it is our common concern – that we introduce as quickly as possible the base amount for farms in less favoured areas, because it is clear to me that the area alone cannot be the criterion of funding if we also want to develop towards structural and structural policies. We must therefore also convince our colleagues in Europe. This is our common task, which we are working hard. Mr Wabl! The question of enlargement of the European Union is undoubtedly a necessary and ambitious political goal for Europe. There is no alternative to enlargement. However, I am in favour of the joint choice of a strategy so that enlargement can be made possible for all those involved on the one hand and beyond the previous borders for the Austrian farmers as well as for the farms in the regions of the applicant countries on the other. [[Abg. Wabl: But am I acting for something else?]] We therefore need models of transitional mechanisms to be able to develop these structures there as well. [[Abg. Wabl: Where is the contradiction?]] That is why we also need measures for our Austrian businesses. I can also say this from this point of view: It is the task of the East to enable it to be implemented in the way it is actually feasible for our agriculture and for our groups concerned. That is my political objective, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mrs Horngacher! I would like to thank you for emphasizing in particular the work of the farmers. We all know that, through structural development in agriculture, farmers take on a high level of corporate responsibility – and beyond the farms. We should use this opportunity today – I am doing it in this way – to thank the farmers for doing in a great way what we all expect from them, namely to maintain a farm-oriented agriculture and to produce high-quality products for all of us and every day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e4102	The next speaker is Mr Wenitsch. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e4123	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Minister, you have quoted from an article by Mr Barazon. To this end, I would like to say the following: Mr Barazon's opinion is mostly not in the opinion of the Freedom Party, but in one point Barazon is certainly right: They did not tell the farmers the truth before accession to the EU, in contrast to the liberals. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: The Barazone doesn't write that at all!]] Mr Horngacher! I'd like to write you a lot in the main book. Haider has never demanded that compensation or support be removed for farmers, he only spoke of subsidies. I would like to say something about this: It is not the liberals who have reduced promised money to farmers, but it has been done at the request of your Federal President Schwarzenberger. Together with the Social Democrats, the ÖVP has reduced the funds promised to the farmers in retrospect! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Minister! In the Agriculture Budget chapter, a further 3 billion schillings are saved. This has already been confirmed more or less by Mr Schwarzböck. But it is remarkable, Mr Schwarzböck, that expenditure on budget items relating to agricultural bureaucracy will be slightly higher next year than last year. I think it is worrying that, because of the internationalization of the presidential conference, an increase of over 6 million schillings is planned. For representation expenditure of the Presidential Conference of the Chambers of Agriculture, an additional 10 million Schilling are estimated under the EU Presidency. Staff costs for consulting are increasing sharply, by 16.7 million to 174.6 million schilling. However, this consultation is only necessary because of EU bureaucracy. We could also find another way to maintain our rural structure in the future. Minister! The budget headings for farmers are as follows: The market regulation measures alone – which are the direct payments you mentioned earlier – are saved in fruit, vegetables and wine 111 million schilling. It's in the budget here. Environmental measures have a minimum of 140 million schilling. So especially in the case of organic farming, for which all parties in Parliament are now committed, you are cutting by 140 million schilling. I believe that this is a step in the wrong direction. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! Especially from your side, before joining the EU, farmers were constantly informed of the importance of joining the EU for Austrian agriculture. Some aspects have been mentioned here, which would be so beneficial for farmers in the future. Among other things, the operating resources were also repeatedly addressed. It was clear that operating prices in Austria are simply too high in international competition. But what happens now? – As far as diesel diesel alone is concerned, we currently have the highest diesel price in Europe in Austria. The diesel price in Austria is about twice as high as in the EU average. That's worrying! This will take every opportunity for our farmers to compete freely. We cannot continue to allow that! Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! I am going to give you today the opportunity to improve your mistakes in public compensation in the field of agriculture. I would like to focus on operating resources in this context. Austrian agriculture pays the highest energy prices in Europe – and this in the case of declining producer prices. I have attached a supplement to the request I would like to make on the back side, on which you can understand closely the statistics of diesel prices within the EU. I should now like to make the request for reading: [[Quoted print version removed]] Minister! Drive this budget I believe that you are continuing to die. That's worrying! You have mentioned the structure you want to maintain in contrast to Mr Barazon. But I really wonder how it could happen that in 1995 10,000 jobs in agriculture and forestry and last year lost another 8,000. If we look more closely at this situation among these workers, it is obvious that particularly the self-employed are largely out of agriculture. In my view, it is particularly objectionable – because jobs are not in abundance especially in Austria – if today a farmer is forced to give up his operation. Then he also has to get a job, and the job situation is not easy anyway. I come from the wine district, where we are not just blessed with jobs. The situation may be somewhat easier in the industrial regions of the south of Lower Austria, but in the wine district we strive for a disaster. It is high time that the Federal Government dealt with the agricultural programme of the liberals: First of all, we are planning a follow-up to the level of membership contributions. We see that we are reducing this contribution and, with this money, more or less, we are pursuing our own agricultural policy in Austria. We want to introduce a base amount for the "farmer farm" job in Austria with regard to jobs. That is an important point, Mr Minister. If you really mean it so seriously with structural maintenance in agriculture, then You cannot oppose this model of the liberals. We demand that competitive disadvantages, such as in the absence of genetic engineering or in the absence of hormones, be compensated because otherwise we would not be able to cope with the rest of agriculture internationally. Another concern of the liberals would be the liberation of the peasants from bureaucracy and from a partly extruded chamber unsubsistence. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Minister! I would ask you, before condemning our agricultural programme, to take a close look at it again. I also believe that the Social Democrats are more likely to think in the direction – as are the liberals – that something needs to be done in this sector. I would like us to find a way here, in the interests of farmers, to maintain the rural structure in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e4221	The motion for a resolution referred to by Mr Wenitsch is in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Schwemmlein, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for Will a certain time be desired? [[Abg. Swimmling: Please, yes!]] And what? [[Abg. Swim: 6 minutes!]] - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e4266	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I think you will all understand that I am using my speech to draw attention to Salzburg's application for the Winter Olympics. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: For this you also have our beautiful body on!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me from this point of view to welcome three of Austria's most well-known and successful athletes, Trixi Schuba, Annemarie Moser-Pröll and David Zwoling. [[General condolences.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: This is the first chance that the little brother gets from me!]] Of course, I would rather draw the attention of the Federal Minister to the need for the 2006 Winter Olympics in Salzburg than to allow him to perform any ÖVP interventions. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] That is why, Minister of State, I am handing over to you a Salzburg information and a Mozart CD. [[Abg. Zweytick: Do you want a Mozart ball?]] On this CD is among other things a flute concerto; and here are also "mazart balls". [[The speaker turned to the government bank and handed over Federal Minister Mag. Molterer a CD as well as "Mozartkugeln".]] [[Federal Minister Mag. Molterer thanks.]] Support Please do not hesitate to submit our application! [[General condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would now like to raise some points about the budget chapter on agriculture. Federal Minister! I can clearly not only speak praise from this point of view, for the following reason: If we compare the income trends of farmers over several years, we must note that the volume of support and the way in which the support is distributed do not seem particularly useful. Let me introduce the following main result: The income from agriculture and forestry comes to more than two thirds from public funds. This seems to me to be a little problematic. And the second thing that bothers me a lot more is that there is much higher income in favors, but also a much higher share of public money. You, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, said earlier that you too are very interested and willing to go along with us in achieving greater social justice in the distribution of public funds. I experience this, however, so that you are willing to take a very great start with us – but we hardly arrive at the jump bar, slow down and are no longer ready to take the last necessary step. However, you should put up with this courage, Minister of State, so that there is more social justice in the distribution of public funds. Another essential point I would like to highlight – mining companies are ruling in my federal state of Salzburg: If we look at the income trends of mining plants, we must note that the decline in income is 7 percent compared to the federal average. At the same time, however, we can see that there were remarkable increases in agricultural favours, especially in the north-eastern lowlands and hills, in 1996. And I think that's not all right. There was an essential signal: In In the course of the public hearing in Brussels, it was agreed that national socialisation is possible – and that is why we should take this step here in Austria as soon as possible. I believe that you, Mr Federal Minister, would be of good service to Austrian farmers if you, together with us, took this step towards social staggering and the introduction of base amounts. Now a number of miners have joined us, just because of the zero zone. And what is the result? – These resources go back to the flatlands instead of the zones 3 or 4, where the most necessary would be. Mr Federal Minister, let us go this way together for the farmers, because you are taking a successful path with this! And support us Salzburger as far as the Olympic application is concerned. Then you'll be back at the successful ones – and you'll be taking an important step for the Austrian economy at the same time.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e4379	Mrs Gredler will speak next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e4400	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to replicate the words of Mr President: Not only are group dynamic processes taking place here, but they also take place in the absence of Members. And I'd like to apologize for my past failure. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: My God! Not necessarily!]] I am very glad that you are there, Mr Khol, because I will still address you during my debate if you allow me to do so. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: I'm glad!]] However, I do not do this at the outset, because I would like to speak to Commissioner Fischler right now. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: It's not nice for you to prefer the fisherman to me!]] I do so because I assume that Mr Fischler is a member of the Farmers' Federation. It is the reputation of Austria: Europe wishes a Commissioner for Agriculture! I assume that in Austrian rural areas it was a very special desire to entrust Mr Fischler with this function. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: A good man!]] Please welcome – it was certainly a right way for Mr Fischler. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: For Austrian agriculture!]] I note that you are the only one, Dr. Khol, who supports this path by Mr Fischler. I am sorry because he has already proved himself very well, I must say. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Good! Thank you!]] So: A very well-proven man in Brussels, who, as I believe, was allowed to take part in Agenda 2000 and who had not had to stand at the door. - You're going to give me a hand. . He has considered prospects for where European agriculture should go in its development, which is what makes sense. And then he said – this is a guest comment by Mr Fischler; Professor Lukesch, you're going to be right, you always have to quote the sources... [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Now comes the big knüller!]] So Fischler said: "The EU wants to achieve a higher competitiveness of European agricultural products with its proposals for the coming years, thus ensuring the long-term standard of living and income of the people active in agriculture." And on top of that: "Provided for a continuous reduction in institutional prices for cereals, beef and milk in order to become competitive on the world market." [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Right! Keep going!]] Fischler also wrote that "there would be an increase in compensation payments at the same time. The existing premiums for farming and livestock will be increased and a new cow premium will be introduced." - Quote. In this context, I have read a statement from the Austrian Mining Association, which, I assume, is not quite far from you. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: It's far! It's social-democratic!]] The Austrian Mining Association, i.e. an association which, I suppose, is to be taken seriously, says: [[Abg. Dr. Khol: But she's not close to us!]] ÖBV strongly rejects further EU orientation on the world market and price reductions. The reduction in prices and the unfair distribution of compensatory payments would further increase the pressure to grow or to change on farms. - Quote. Now I am in a twinkling mill, I have to say, and I want you to tell me, of course, where to go. – On the one hand, there is a Commissioner Fischler, who knows very well that the farmers in our society are necessary, who also wants it to go well for the farmers. – But on the other hand, we have a Federal Minister Molterer, who is no less talented, but who says he has a big problem with it. If we want to take enlargement seriously and create a Europe that does not end at our borders, but also includes our neighbours, I wonder how this should work differently than to encourage farmers directly and simply reduce or eliminate all intermediate services provided by the EU so far. That would be a sensible construction! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: This is not an unemployed income!]] While 47 percent of the EU budget is spent on the agricultural sector, only a fraction of the population is involved, it does not make much sense. I'm sure you'll be right in that. So you have to think about another system. Ladies and gentlemen! The other system would be to deal directly with the situation of farmers and to support them directly. This does not mean giving them alms – basic security is by far no alms! – but it is simply about taking away pressure from those who do not receive the services they provide. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Unemployed income!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: But the farmers are working for it!]] [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The farmers contribute to landscape care!]] Mr. Khol! I'll come back to you with this. You always want to put the liberals at an angle where they could not even be theoretical – you know, if you really were dealing with our documents. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: If you were really liberals, you couldn't stand there!]] Mr. Khol! They said, on several occasions and not only in the form of calls, that we wanted to overtake the Communists on the left. I'll give you a few recommendations. Contact Professor Laffer, Professor of Economics at the University of San Diego and economic advisor to President Reagan. He said that it would no longer be possible to overlook basic security, that it would be the right way in the context of a general financial, i.e. fiscal, changeover. Milton And Friedman won't be unknown to you either: Professor of Economy, Stanford University, Palo Alto – and a quite famous prizewinner! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Monetarist! Chicago boy!]] That's right! See, you know him. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Thank you, Mrs. Teacher!]] If you know him, you will also know that he wrote about the basic security. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: When?]] [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: When? Tell me when!]] I guess that's not unknown to you. What does it mean when? [[Abg. Dr. Khol: 1953!]] – I saw him three weeks ago, because he did not argue that this was the right way. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: In 1953! And he means a different basic security!]] I cannot judge whether he has developed differently between October 1997 and November 1997, but until October he was convinced that this was the right way. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Lukesch.]] In its opinion on the Government Summit on Employment Policy, the European Parliament is also concerned with basic income. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's not even the heath Schmidt.]] – If You call all these people Communists, then I have no difficulty with your accusation. Gentlemen of the ÖVP! I think it is reasonable to say that the European Parliament is made up of only communists. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: No one said that!]] Mr. Khol! Read the Christian social doctrine, it also talks about basic security. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Where? Nothing without work!]] I would highly recommend that you deal with the basic works of your ideology instead of withdrawing the heights of politics and not knowing where you are from. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: Khol must confess!]] [[Congratulations and bravorage at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: Christian-liberal!]] A word about the events surrounding the farmers' social security institution. I know that this is not the subject of the debate, but: I think it is impossible for Minister Molterer - whom I, of course, hate to interrupt - to insist that those decisions made by him in the Council of Ministers have been prepared by the Minister for Social Affairs. [[Federal Minister Mag. Molterer speaks to Members standing at the Intergovernmental Bank]] On the other hand, the Minister of Social Affairs says that this has brought Molterer in, and this has led to an unpleasant situation because a minister now intervenes in an existing contract without negotiating with those concerned. I think it is reasonable to say that this procedure was correct. Only: Just as it is now, it's gotten even worse.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e4823	The next speaker is Mr Johann Kurzbauer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e4847	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! In recent years, especially since accession to the European Union in 1995, Austrian agriculture has undergone a tremendous process of transformation. On the one hand, producer prices have been greatly reduced, on the other hand, compensation has been made to make farmers' incomes a little more tolerant. Our farmers, ladies and gentlemen, have accepted these challenges, and thanks to the support of the representation of interests, this conversion process has been better achieved than originally adopted. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Allow me to draw some attention to the 1998 budget. Structural changes, such as the disseminating of the Federal Forests – a very important area and a courageous step – contribute to the disseminating of experimental economies or the retiring of pension funds by the AMA in order to relieve the budget on the side of the budget. Dear ladies and gentlemen! However, I would like to point out another important area, namely savings in administration, and especially the officials and staff of the Ministry for this courageous structural change, thank you. Another goal for 1998 is to exploit EU payments, i.e. that no big, no schilling should remain in Brussels. [[Abg. Meisinger: This is conscious deception!]] Reorientation and further development in insurance issues is another structural priority. In this context, I would point out that in addition to hail insurance for agricultural crops in the future, there will also be the possibility to insure the crops "sugar beet" and "wine" against frost damage. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Meisinger.]] As a third priority, I would like to mention the environmental programme. Austria's farmers are well known for their ecological economics throughout Europe. In the 1998 environmental programme, more important steps have been taken in an ecological way. The 1998 budget also refers in particular to the promotion of producer communities and sectoral plans. It is estimated to increase from 160 million schilling to 565 million schilling, which will support around 200 projects. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This allocation of 1.39 billion schilling also makes it possible to make the budget more flexible and gives the Minister the financial margin to support unforeseen tasks. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! In order to enable our farmers to join the EU, a solidarity package of 40 billion schillings was agreed before accession to the EU. We have already heard from Minister Molterer that this 40 billion schilling has been planned for the future until the year 2002. Thank you to our Minister for this! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In conclusion, I would like to point out that it will be necessary, in the medium to long term, to enforce the cost of agriculture by increasing agricultural producer prices and thereby reducing compensation payments. It should also be possible to carry out an assessment of the farmers' benefits in relation to the maintenance of our cultural landscape. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Courageous reform steps have been taken for the 1998 budget. We will, of course, give our approval to this budget. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e4916	The next speaker is Mr Salzl. The clock is set to 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e4940	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In recent years, the agricultural debates here in the High House have always followed the same pattern of knitting: The representatives of the government parties, especially the black peasants, vehemently defend the agricultural policy of recent years, and they are often more important to party discipline and coalitions than the well-being of the farmers. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If it does not fit in with them, ideas on how to improve the economic and social situation in agriculture and maintain a comprehensive agriculture will be rejected from the outset, even made worse. Experts often ignore opinions as well as ideas and concepts of opposition parties. It obviously counts only the opinion of the Black-Böcks, and these so-called farmers' representatives are more important in maintaining party power than the welfare of our farmers. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! People like Schwarzenberger, Schwarzböck and Co have attracted our farmers to the EU and are obviously still proud of it, according to newspaper reports. A press article entitled "EU, Euro and Agriculture" says: With great pride, a Mr. Schwarzböck, who plays the boss in the Chamber of Farmers, recently explained in an interview with the pink paper "Standard" that he could claim the honour of having given the farmers the consent to join the European Union before the EU election. – Dear ladies and gentlemen! It says here: to have been introduced. I quote: And then the fine gentleman also pretended to be very lucky for farmers, even though even the squats from the roof of the farmhouses are ringing, that the rural population is suffering badly from the EU conditions and that their pain is getting even greater, because the originally promised EU funding is further reduced. - Quote. Ladies and gentlemen! There is probably no reason to be proud that agricultural income has fallen enormously since EU accession. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Zweytick.]] If in 1995 income losses could still be compensated for by increased subsidies, they fell by around 10 percent in 1996, namely from agricultural production. Farmers rank on average just in front of those in need. That should give you some of the ÖVP to think! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Poverty, especially among women, has become a social and social problem. In the "Förderungsdienst", whose editor is the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, it is said about poverty in rural areas – I quote –: Almost half of those at risk of poverty live in rural communities of less than 20,000 inhabitants. The risk rate for poverty reached 29 percent in rural communities. The highest risk rate is given in Burgenland at 29 percent, in Styria at 25 percent, in Lower Austria at 23 percent. – And, on the other hand, it says: In Austria, 30.6 percent of agricultural households are at risk of poverty. - Quote. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! If you do not think so, especially that the women are mostly affected, then it would be time for you to wake up at last! The reason for this poverty in rural areas is the decline in agricultural prices, the inadequate or poorly designed support and the lack of prospects for the future, namely the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. [[Abg. Zweytick: Why does Haider then reject the subsidies for agriculture? You partyobmann!]] Mr Zweytick! You can talk about it after that. I only have 4 minutes. Please don't talk until you're on it. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Zweytick.]] Ladies and gentlemen! These missing prospects lead to resignation and frustration – and more than 10,000 people leave agriculture each year! In conclusion, I would like to say in general to this government's policy: Our farmers were taken a lot of hope and great prospects for the future. The agricultural policy must therefore be clear, clear and transparent in the future – and we shall be free to do so. It must be forward-looking, and this dishonest and doubling policy of the government parties must finally have an end. We liberals will ensure that, on the one hand, this dual policy is brought to the attention of agricultural holdings in Austria and, on the other hand, that farmers are protected from further damage.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e5008	Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his excellent report. Please, honourable Member, you have the floor. Start with the facts you want to correct!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e5032	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I have three actual corrections to Mr Salzl's winery and insecure contribution. [[Contradict with the liberals.]] First: Farmers are not suffering from the EU, but from your sudel campaign. You've been thinking about the new situation for a long time and you're doing well. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: This is not a correction! This is a debate!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meisinger.]] Secondly, Schwarzböck and Schwarzenberger have not lured the farmers into the EU, but have correctly explained it – at a time when you have done nothing but slander from the FPÖ – and the farmers themselves have decided. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: That's not a correction, that's a debate contribution!]] Thirdly, Farmers may also be at risk of poverty because there are too high tariffs for veterinarians and in other areas. [[Abg. Dr. Salzl: Especially with the social security contribution!]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e5108	Deputies! I would like to say once again: This was just a classic example of a debate contribution that did not correspond to an actual correction. However, since such cases have grown in recent days, I believe that President Fischer announced yesterday that we will have a debate on this once again in the presidency. Mr. Dr. Salzl, what do you want? [[Abg. Dr. Salzl: A personal response!]] Please, come out and explain why you are personally affected by this finding. [[Abg. Dr. Salzl: As a vet!]] Deputies! A general criticism of the veterinarians is not a reason for personal response. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Please, Mr President.]] No, the personal response does not take place! I call Mr Achs as the next speaker. – Ladies and gentlemen, I will set the clock at 6 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e5167	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The 1998 agricultural budget shows what changes Austrian agriculture has made in recent years. The path from the protected market to the common agricultural policy of the European Union was certainly not easy. Many changes were required. But, as we have already mentioned, we have done well for accession. The agricultural budgets of recent years have contributed to this, which must also be said. It was record budgets. But not just that. The Austrian farmers have recognized where their chances for the future lie. This shows the large number of farms that have participated in the environmental programme. Today, Austrian agriculture is working more ecologically, but also more quality-oriented than ever, and the opportunities for our agriculture can only be in quality. In addition to the operation of the mass segment, strong brands must be built up. The example of Denmark shows that a small country can also compete in international competition. Addressing the enlargement of the EU, a Danish farmer recently said that he was not afraid of the threatening low-cost competition: on the one hand, because Danish agriculture has opened large markets in exports, on the other hand, because it does not see its quality products in competition with the mass products. Ladies and gentlemen! There is also an area in which this market philosophy is already being practised skillfully in Austrian agriculture. In recent years, our wine industry has experienced an unexpected high-speed flight. EU accession was a driving force for a new export offensive. Two-digit growth rates in exports lead us back to where we stood in the mid-1980s. The success of local winegrowers is built on three pillars: production, finishing, but also marketing. Much has been done and changed in the field of marketing in recent years. Ladies and gentlemen! Many top-ranking winemakers today are putting themselves on the plane to present their most noble wines in the USA or the Far East, and this must be said with great success. The numerous international awards and awards contribute to the overall achievement of a higher reputation of local wine. Ladies and gentlemen! This is also particularly noticeable on the domestic market. Nothing has become out of the flood of the domestic market with cheap wines after accession to the EU, because the Austrians have remained faithful to the local wine. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] However, this good development cannot conceal the fact that we are again in a difficult situation in the year ahead: Although there is talk of a "yearly wine", it is to be feared that about 20 percent will be lost on the domestic market due to the low harvest. Nevertheless, I do not believe that there is reason for resignation. In the past, the Austrian winegrowers have repeatedly proved that they are dealing with difficult situations. The Austrian wine industry has shown in recent years where the opportunities lie in the agricultural sector. Not mass, but class leads to success in an industry characterized by its small structures. Sustainability and quality are known to be two key concepts for the future of Austrian agriculture. Ladies and gentlemen! I am therefore confident that the Austrian farmers will be well aware of this future.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e5225	Mr Koller is now on the floor. – Ladies and gentlemen, I will set the clock at 4 minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e5246	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Minister Molterer's health reduction programme continues. In 1995, the agricultural budget was still 33 billion, and in 1998 it fell to 24 billion. Within three years a minus of 27 percent! No other resort has speculated as much as the agricultural resort. The farmers are severely saved. Not to be saved, but to the agricultural bureaucracy. The number of farmers is becoming less and less, the bureaucracy is increasing. Farmers' revenue fell by 8 percent in 1996 according to Wifo. They all know that degressive compensatory payments are declining; they are reduced to zero in 1999. Ladies and gentlemen! In July this year, the European Commission presented Agenda 2000. The first part deals with the reform of the common agricultural policy, the second with enlargement and the third with the financial framework for the years 2000 to 2006. What now brings Agenda 2000? – A 30 per cent reduction in cattle, 10 per cent reduction in milk, and 20 per cent reduction in the intervention price in the cereals sector. It also reduces the compensation for oilseeds from currently 6 904 s per hectare to 4 772 p. Silomais is no longer promoted as part of the crop balance. 100 000 hectares are grown in Austria. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In the position of the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry on Agenda 2000, it is stated literally: The continuation of the existing calf regime would be necessary in order to control the market balance. – I ask you now, Minister: Do you continue to hold on to the perverted Herodic premium? [[Federal Minister Mag. Molterer: who we don't have!]] [[Cheerfulness with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Friend: There is no such thing in Austria, Mr. Colleague! Minister Molterer put it through! There is no Herodic premium in Austria!]] The durum wheat area is 3 000 hectares below the actual area before accession to the EU. Here, Mr Minister, you have clearly failed during the negotiations. Ladies and gentlemen! The loss of co-insurance of spouses represents a financial burden for many rural families. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] People who have previously been insured must now pay their own insurance contributions to the farmers' social security institution. 40 000 farmers are affected by this. There's going to be enough hardness here. To sum up, I note: more money for bureaucracy, less money for farmers, additional burden on rural families by the Social Rights Amendment Act, reductions in Agenda 2000; these cuts will amount to about 1.6 billion schilling for farmers each year. In addition, your If and But to the Easter enlargement. After prost, meal! There's still a lot of bad things ahead of the farmers. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Finally, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e5334	The motion for a resolution, which Mr Koller has just tabled, is sufficiently supported, has been presented and is included in the negotiations. I now give the floor to Mr Schwarzenberger for an actual correction. [[Abg. Dolinschek: He doesn't have a sacco!]] [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to pay attention in the future: Actual corrections are the mention of the facts which one wants to correct and the comparison of the corrected version. That's all. Excuse me, Mr Deputies. I don't need to teach you. You know long enough what "real correction" means. You have the floor for this. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e5386	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In response to the question raised by the Federal Minister, Mr Koller: "Did you stick to the Herodic premium?", gives the impression that there is a Herodic premium in Austria. There is no Herodic premium in Austria, although the liberals always claim the opposite.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e5422	The next speaker is Mr Deputie's friend. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e5443	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! "Fastly 600 000 jobs depend on agriculture." This statement comes from the statistical service of the Upper Austrian state government. I am convinced that it is true that we are constantly making these investments, these compensatory payments to our farmers. [[Abg. Aumayr: Those are getting less and less!]] Our farmers invest 40 billion schilling every year in industrial areas and also in industry, because they are bought there. Agriculture is therefore a huge economic factor in our Republic. As various speakers repeatedly call into question the compensatory payments: We from the ÖVP are in favour of these compensation payments, because we are interested in maintaining the rural family farms. In this connection, I would like to quote the liberals, because also Haider mentions the fact that agricultural subsidies should be removed. The fact that he is not at all interested in the debate on agriculture is again evident today: I haven't seen him in the hall for a minute, while agriculture is being discussed. In the October issue of the "trend" Dr. Haider answered the question: Around 60 percent of EU subsidies are spent on agriculture. Do you think that this division is modern and fair to small and medium-sized enterprises? as follows: The FPÖ is basically against subsidies and in return for low taxes. This will promote the medium-sized economy evenly. Where fair competition exists, the economy does not need subsidies. He is therefore clearly opposed to these compensatory payments, and I believe that the wrong course would be followed if we followed them. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I have already pointed out the importance of agriculture as a means of securing thousands of jobs, especially in the rural area. That is why we must give this area the greatest attention. I would also like to thank Mr Federal Minister Molterer, who was once again able to stand up in different areas, also within the EU. It has led the public in 1998 to a realization. He has agreed with the Minister for Finance through a 40-billion package to secure compensation payments by 2002. This is particularly important because it also contributes to the stability and security of our farmers because they can rely on the fact that these low prices will continue to be offset by direct payments in the future. And I would also like to thank you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for having been able to enforce the re-adjustment for disadvantaged areas in the EU. In Upper Austria more than 1,700 farms are affected. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I have already said that it is very important that we have these compensation payments not only from Austria but also from the EU. And if the Agenda 2000 has already been mentioned today: I too am grateful to the Minister for not saying immediately: Yes, that is exactly the concept for us!, but it is very reserved for this Agenda 2000 that he states that we must look at it very carefully, what is still to be regulated and what last fits our region. In this context, I do not at all agree that we want to reduce prices at world market level, and I do not at all agree with the fact that we are bringing the Structural Funds together. I would like to point out that more than 100 million schillings have flown for these projects under the 5b area support scheme in the Innviertel. There have been over 180 projects in our region, and I am really proud that in this context we have been able to get a lot of money from the EU. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would also like to thank the fact that our attitude towards America has been so clearly expressed in Austria that we do not want hormone meat – and not in Europe either. I would like to thank the Minister for his clear position on this. [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] In this sense, ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that, with this agricultural budget, we can put Austrian agriculture on a solid basis over the next two years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e5505	Mr Ing. Reichhold. Please, honourable Member, you have the floor. I would like to remind you of the statements I made before the actual correction of Mr Schwarzenberger.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e5529	High house! Mr President. My previous speaker, honourable Member, said that Dr. Haider said that the agricultural subsidies should be reduced, and he also quoted it here. [[Abg. Horngacher: In the "trend" it says!]] With no word, no, with no word has Dr. Jörg Haiderdie made a demand to cut agricultural subsidies. [[Abg. Friend keeps the paper quoted by him high]] It's not in here. You read the text. That's not a word in there! On the contrary. The text released by Dr. Haider for this newspaper, quoted by you, has been shortened by his main requirement, namely that agricultural subsidies should be secured on the basis of a constitutional provision. This paper, quoted by you, will clarify in the next issue of this interview and print the full text released by Dr. Jörg Haider. I call on you to finally take note that these untruths which you are spreading here do not have any basis.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e5574	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Schreiner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e5601	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr Schwarzböck! Before you completely echo, I would like to make a brief comment in your direction. You said in your comments today that it would be like this in the economy: 17 Moldries in Lower Austria must be locked, one remains. That would just be so common in the economy. [[Abg. Schwarzböck: You haven't locked up! You went together, Mr Schreiner!]] What would happen? Are you saying that – we are supposed to have a wave of founders in Europe – when 200 installers lock up and only ten remain in Lower Austria? What if 200 builders were to lock up and only ten would be left? Is this, for example, an economic policy for the agricultural sector? [[Abg. Meisinger: This is plan economy!]] It's a witness to poverty. The Raiffeisen would turn around five times in the grave! That can't be a philosophy! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Schwarzböck: There he laughs, the farmer's representative!]] Mr Schwarzböck, do you know what you still do not understand? The agricultural production of the farmers, combined with reasonable income in the area of processing, is the only guarantee to ensure the survival of the farm. And you don't. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They simply say so loosely that the farmers should supply their grain, their milk, their wine to cooperatives. But these cooperatives do not: They do not return their profits to farmers in the form of profit distributions, but they invest in participations in the second and third stages in Germany and abroad. We have all this black and white in a report. A situation report from a Raiffeisenlandesbank shows that more than 1 billion already went to a sugar factory in Hungary in 1991, to a hotel in Prague – you can read it all – or to a spray factory in Hungary. These 1 billion would belong to primary cooperatives, and these primary cooperatives could pour them out to farmers. Then they would have a second stand, and with this second stand they could secure their survival. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Schwarzböck: You haven't even heard of cooperatives!]] But you're just watching. They have literally said: 17 dairies shut up, restructuring, one remains. Okay. The social plan applies to the workers concerned. In Waidhofen an der Thaya a private cheesemaker has taken over the dairy there and is now making sheep and goat cheese. The Waidhofen dairy farm has for decades been unable to secure the survival of farmers in such a way that the milk is processed in such a way that it also achieves a profit. The dairy has had to lock. The cheese maker now makes the profits as a private person, and the 110 farmers have such a decent yield. That would be a reasonable way. But, Mr Schwarzböck, I'm clear. We have discussed the cooperative revision law in this House. There has been a motion for a resolution to change the cooperative law of the last century. The Federal Minister, not for Agriculture and Forestry, but for Justice, has said that there has been negotiations for five years and unfortunately there is no agreement with those concerned. I realize why there is no agreement. A modern cooperative law would mean: Strengthen primary cooperatives, strengthen owners, control instruments, and all that you don't want. [[Abg. Wenitsch: They don't want that!]] Of course you don't want to. They want to pass on the profits written there to the second and third levels and leave the farmers in the rain. That's the reality! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That's the reality! Farmers must simply have a second stand next to their original production. And that's what you're refusing to do. [[Abg. Schwarzböck: You want primary cooperatives to lose 90 percent!]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: He doesn't understand that! No herb has grown against stupidity!]] Mr Schwarzböck! I would like to invite you once to make a private body in cooperative law. Then I'll be You might understand. At the moment, your statement proves that you really don't understand that.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e5761	The next speaker is Mrs Hagenhofer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e5783	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I would like to welcome our visitors today, especially the many young people in the gallery, but also all other visitors, from this point of view – and I believe that this is in the interests of all Members. I would like to thank both the teacher and the students for seeing, if they are in Vienna, the opportunity to come to the High House. I think it is very important and necessary for young people and adults to start dealing with direct democracy as early as possible. Welcome! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP as well as visitors to the gallery.]] Federal Minister! With us in Upper Austria – but I think that's what it is all over Austria – we say: The best – or the best – comes into export. And if I look at what you have drawn from the general budget of agricultural resources, I think that this proverb applies to you. Despite declining budget figures, they have raised a high percentage of the total federal funds for agriculture. I think the Farmers' Federation has known why it has "exported" you from Upper Austria to Vienna, so that the best can be done here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is one thing to mention in this chapter as positive. I would like to point out another positive point, namely that it is very important that the resources of the environmental support programme be channelled to farmers after social measures. This means that there is a lot of money going to be spent where the environment is being managed. Minister! So far everything is very positive. I would ask you, however, to reconsider the agricultural support system. The current system is mainly handled by acres and by number of livestock. That is, the more acres or the more pieces of cattle a farmer has, the more money he can spend. As a result, many areas, especially mountain areas, are disadvantaged. Areas with green land management are also affected. Mrs Horngacher said: The mountain areas have the smallest structures. That's quite right, Mrs. Colleague. But if that is the case, then, Mr Minister, we must do everything we can to ensure that the resources are relatively high in this area. We must ensure that the smallest structures, precisely because we are trying to preserve them, benefit from the appropriate resources. In the future, our support system must look so that the labour force will be paid for – for example, a lot of workers are linked to the land use of land – and not the arable land. Federal Minister! It will be necessary to keep in mind the slogan: Promote people, not acres! [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: But behind every acre is a human being!]] Of course! But You know very well that if you are a farmer of green land, you have to work much more labor-intensive and time-intensive than if you are working on large arable areas. Mrs. Colleague! We don't need to deal with that. I come from the Inn district and I know what green land management means. At the same time, I see the labour force working on large arable land. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: You can't make grassland management everywhere!]] Retirement reform. Federal Minister! I think it is very positive that the farmer's health insurance fund has been linked to the local health insurance fund, so to speak. I think that is very positive. It is also true that the peasantry must contribute more self-sufficiency – 250 million schilling more. That's necessary. Minister! We have thus reached a point in which we believe by the SPÖ that the introduction of the funds is not fairly distributed. We have to look again at who is actually bringing in most of the funds. I spoke yesterday to our farmers' representatives, and they told me that the minimum unit value used to determine the level of contribution was increased to 50 000 s. So farmers who have so far had a single value of 20 000 s have always paid for 40 000 s, and now this basic amount has been increased to 50 000 s. But all those above which have a uniform value of more than 50 000 S or 51 000 S no longer contribute, with them the contributions remain the same. Minister! It can't be! "Let living and living" must be our common motto. Then, too, all farmers, as I mean, have a job at their farm and can work there calmly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e5853	The next speaker is Mr Zweytick. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e5882	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Jörg Haider! Before I talk about wine – by the way, I would rather recommend to everyone, all Austrians, including you, to drink a little more of it and to talk less about it – I would like to thank our Styrian fruit farmers on behalf of my group. Today the "Day of Apple", and the Styrian fruit farmers have therefore donated us healthy "fresh-steiric" juicy apples. A warm thank you for that! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] A supplement to this: There is a record harvest in domestic fruit making this year. 170 000 tonnes of apples have been harvested. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, despite the duty-free markets in Europe, I would like to draw your attention to: We need to eat a biterl more apples! Apples are healthy, we need to eat more of them – right, just like the colleague Reichhold. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold takes hold of the apple in front of him, bites heartily in and keeps him in height]] We have a bit too much in the camps, and it's up to us to cut it off. If we all eat one biterl more apples, for example not only one but two per day, then we can secure the guaranteed paragraph. The situation is not quite easy for us. Because of such a good harvest, there is simply such a large quantity that we have certain difficulties in cutting them off. But above all, it is up to us and also to you, for example, to call on you to eat apples on the occasion of the "Day of Apple" and to emphasize how healthy this domestic apple is. Mr Reichhold asked earlier: What about the fine food shop in Europe, where are the Austrian products? – I would like to answer that: The Austrian cheese is a very good example of this because it is currently practically present in all German shops. The idea of the food shop is coming up, Mr Reichhold! To ensure competition, which Mr Barmüller referred to. – He's not here now, just like the greens. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: Yes, but!]] So he's here. – Competition is already necessary, Mr colleague, because this is price assurance, and price assurance is for us farmers the guarantee of existence. This safeguarding of competition is, after all, the environment and the environment in this European Union. But what else can we say to our agricultural philosopher of the Liberals? – You need a bit longer until you get it. In addition, you would prefer to see the negative sides in our agriculture. There's a lot of things you can take out and show and especially make bad. But to make things bad is certainly not the right way to the future, but we need to talk positively about our products and the achievements of our farmers! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We are rightly talking positively about this. This is also guaranteed in the Europe Agreement for 1998 by the 20.5 billion Schilling package for our Austrian farmers. Mr. Barmüller! You do not know the important services of our farmers for our country at all, otherwise you would not talk about social support, but about charges for services that benefit our whole society. Nevertheless, there is still a lot to be done. It has been said a lot, which is not at all true. Mr Wenitsch! You yourself said: Haider is against subsidies in agriculture. Today, a few minutes ago, in your speech, you said that. At the same time, however, you are bringing forward a motion for a resolution for support in agriculture, Mr Diesel. [[Abg. Wenitsch: These are not subsidies!]] – Once you want to abolish the subsidies and once you demand support. That goes back and forth, it's a zigzag course, but we don't go on in this country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] While you, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, are only criticizing and yelling as loud as possible so that you can stand in the media, we take care of solving the real problems of our farmers. As a winegrower, I know what I'm talking about, and I can bring in my experience as a practitioner. Why do we in Austria currently have too little wine, and not only today, because we had frost yesterday, but already in recent years? – I can tell you: Because the wine is so good and because we market it with professional marketing! We have the following interesting situation today: While we had a wine lake in Austria many years ago and did not know where to deal with this structural problem with redundancies, we are now faced with the gratifying situation that some farmers say: Please find a solution, find a way that I can return the grubbing-up premium and replant wine. – There is such demand for Austrian wine on the European market and on the world market! This has not yet led us into a country in Europe, not even the French, even though they are very successful in the Asian market. We see what our Minister for Agriculture has achieved with this structural adjustment or structural solution at the time: a complete turnaround! Now there is again a great demand and a great opportunity for the future of Austrian wine. During the last years, we have managed to position our country, which really produces the highest wine quality, very well. Today we are an internationally recognized manufacturer of branded products. This should be due, on the one hand, to the intensive structural adjustment and, on the other hand, to the promotion of new paths in wine marketing. The revision of the hail insurance law is a very important measure for us wine growers, as it will no longer have an existence-threatening character for our wine-growing farms in the future. Although this demand has long been presented by the farmers' representatives, it has only been possible to achieve it with the support of the ÖVP. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Böhacker.]] Our Minister of Agriculture was able to secure the ÖPUL programme and thus the proven Austrian agricultural strategy through his commitment to the negotiations in Brussels. It is important to preserve Austrian agriculture, as farmers not only secure their own jobs, but at least as many jobs are created in the sub- and downstream areas. In particular, with regard to the 1998 OPUL programme, our Minister of Agriculture has succeeded in enabling farms which have fallen out of the programme to re-enter. He has succeeded in providing businesses that have not yet been able to get started with the possibility of re-entry. It will also allow for a changeover within the ÖPUL programme. All of this was achieved by our Minister of Agriculture Molterer for the next year. This brings our farmers Austrian revenues of 400 million schilling. We must also take note of this! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The OPUL programme will secure the environmental programme up to the next millennium. Farmers integrated in the current environmental programme will be able to participate in the environmental programme for a total of eight years. Protection of the environment is still a major requirement. But nothing happens by itself. There is also a need to do something about it. While you're just talking about the opposition, we'll solve the problems. Finally, I wish our Austrian agriculture a good future and our Minister of Agriculture much success. In the future, I wish you better insights and insights from the opposition so that you can speak positively about Austrian agriculture with you. Don't just talk bad about it, because that doesn't mean you're doing a good job for our agriculture!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e5987	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Barmüller. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e6008	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Zweytick! I would like to believe that the Federal Minister is committed to agriculture at European level. I would remind you that we had here in the house a five-party resolution request concerning the abolition of the mass cage holding of chickens. There should have been initiatives at European level, but we have not heard of them. That does not mean that nothing has happened, but at least we have not heard anything about it here in the house. However, I am quite thinkingful – therefore, I would like to make a later motion for a resolution – that the Austrian Ministry of Agriculture at European level appears to be trying to get the animal welfare agents out of COREPER I and to bring them into the SAL and negotiate them there. I do not assume that this is done without the knowledge of the Federal Minister. It appears that at European level, a matter in which there is also consensus here in the House that this area – animal welfare – is not only concerned with agriculture, but is essentially continuing to draw this chapter out of the Council's Permanent Representatives Committee and move it to the market area. That is why I am saying this because, because it has happened many times, I suspect that, if a decision has been taken at European level, we will come to Austria and say: Well, we can't do anything. We can't handle this so strictly. [[Abg. Zweytick: That's a presumption!]] No, that's not a presumption. I have received such information, which reads that today the British representative in COREPER has reported under "various" that the Austrian Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry has approached the British Ministry of Agriculture and Agriculture with the intention of negotiating the dossiers on animal welfare during the British Presidency rather than at COREPER in the SAL. This has caused some irritation in the other countries, because it is agreed among the other delegations that this matter – animal welfare – goes far beyond the agricultural sector. It therefore does not belong to the market sector, but must stay where it is in the COREPER. It is also clear here that the Presidency has concluded this debate, bearing in mind the decision to set up the SAL in 1962, which it has to deal with questions of market regulation. Animal welfare is probably not covered. In addition, it is not up to the Presidency to decide which dossiers should be dealt with in COREPER and which should be dealt with in the SAL. There are precisely defined rules to be complied with by all. Obviously, however, this is not yet known to all Member States. Thus, the Austrian Ministry of Agriculture at European level tried to take out a subject from the area in which it belongs without knowledge of the people's representation here in the country and to move to another in which it does not belong, namely in that area of interest, in which, of course, there can be no such tough rules as in the area in which it is in truth to remain after the division of competence between COREPER and SAL. [[Abg. Zweytick: That's a presumption! Not justified at all!]] Wait a minute, Hannes! That's not a presumption, it's so! Although you believe that this chapter should remain in the area of COREPER, because it is a concern beyond the agricultural field, I would ask you to accept the following request, which reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] My colleague, Mr Motter, and I did not expressly say in this motion for a resolution that we are asking for or doing something in this way, but we expressly expressed the request of the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs to do so. That's not supposed to mean anything. I say what my interpretation is, but this formulation should be a majority – if we really want to have rules on animal welfare, which are established at European level and in line with what is necessary, and if we do not want to make an interest-led policy here, which has been claimed by several today and which has always been disputed by your side. There is obviously evidence here that the Austrian population simply wants to be misled by action at European level. I would therefore ask that this motion for a resolution be approved. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e6092	The one by the honourable Member Mag. Barmüller's motion for a resolution which has just been tabled has been submitted by business regulation, is sufficiently supported and is included in the negotiations. Mrs Sophie Bauer has now come to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e6120	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! On the 1998 Federal estimates, I would like to address the infrastructure measures in the agricultural sector. If we look at expenditure in this area, we see that the amount of schilling in 1997 has increased from 391 million to 486 million schilling for 1998. We see that the preservation of agricultural holdings in Austria is still a major concern. However, it is also clear that agriculture and forestry are a workman. Agriculture and forestry is an integral part of a country's economy. Ladies and gentlemen! Investment in the purchase of machinery and road construction will create and maintain many jobs. Of course, the areas close to agriculture, such as milk, meat and wood processing, are also very important. As a result of the further processing of agricultural products, thousands more jobs are created. However, I also know that there have been closures from agricultural holdings. However, I do not think that this is just a financial problem. In my opinion, the profession of the farmer or the farmer is more than just the material. It is certainly crucial whether from childhood it is possible to awaken the joy of work, of dealing with livestock or of farming as a whole, so that the urge away from the parental court does not become too great. Therefore, it cannot be decisive whether one gets a thousand more or less for pig farming or cattle production, but the necessary framework conditions need to be created, and I believe that this begins in the parental field. The number of auxiliary farmers continues to increase compared to the number of full-time farmers in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! Just last week, a number of measures were adopted which have a very positive impact on farmers' social security. I only remember the higher weekly allowance for farmers and the better billing of child rearing times. Finally, this will have a positive effect on pensions. I am aware of the importance of maintaining jobs in agriculture. That is why we advocate social democrats for social staggering and a base amount for the distribution of existing funds. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Because the money is supposed to reach the smaller and financially weaker farmers, but not the large farmer who can manage the fields more easily with his machine park. It also shows that the money is unjustly distributed. It can be seen, however, that the grant of the Federal Government to the miners is only 170 000 s, whereas for the maize farmers 330 000 S. Ladies and gentlemen! We Socialists are also following the path of social staggering because this will ensure the opportunity for the additional workers, the farm farm, as well as for job security.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e6186	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Molterer reported. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e6207	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to calm down Mr Barmüller. It is true that the British representative in COREPER has referred to the transfer of this competence from COREPER to SAL. It is not right for Austria to support this attitude. The Austrian representative at the SAL stated that Austria still considers that the COREPER should be the advisory and preparatory body on the issue of animal husbandry and animal welfare and that, on the basis of these preparations, the Council of Agriculture Ministers will continue to be the decision-making body. Therefore, the Austrian position is that everything should remain unchanged.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e6238	The next speaker is Mr Sauer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e6259	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! In his opinion, the Federal Minister mentioned that environmental services should be particularly highlighted in the case of green farmers in particular and that it is therefore natural to receive a corresponding fee for these services. In this debate I would like to deal with my very own production process, the cattle industry and cattle farming. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Greenland care – I claim – goes exclusively or almost exclusively via the beef stomach. If we get the cattle farmers in good shape, we get the cultural landscape and the countryside at the same time. We are constantly talking about subsidies and compensatory payments – I have heard it today in many debates. In particular, the Federal Minister has pointed out that these payments to Austrian farmers are not social benefits but a payment of benefits. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, we use this service fee. I have not yet heard of anyone in the public service who says that he receives a "subsidisation" when he receives his salary at the end of the month or at the end of the month. On the contrary: That's a bill for his performance. We also see farmers: We provide a service with the preservation of the landscape. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The Austrian farmers also issue certain guarantees for this remuneration. They guarantee the Austrian population that it has sufficient daily fresh and high-quality food available. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! This too is not a matter of course, but a part of our performance. The Austrian farmers maintain the cultural landscape, and the Austrian tourism industry lives in a good part of it. I would like to give you an example. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The city of Salzburg has around 15, 17 hectares of green land on Mönchsberg. This country was leased to a farmer until some time ago. Because there is also a certain restructuring in the agricultural society, that farmer has given up this green land area. The city of Salzburg then said in this matter: We will look for another farmer who manages this country. - No one's found it anymore. But the city fathers knew exactly: If this country is not maintained, the guests who like to come to us will no longer visit Mönchsberg. They therefore made a call for tender. If I tell you now that this call for tender by the low-cost bidders for the maintenance of the countryside in the year has been very close to the 200 000 S, you can see this example of what cultural landscape care is worth, ladies and gentlemen. I think you should also consider these achievements. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Not only landscape care is part of our area, but also quality assurance. I therefore come to an issue on which we have worked from the point of view that, particularly in connection with the BSE situation in Europe, we must refer particularly to our products and label the animals accordingly, so that we can be sure that from the birth of an animal to the consumer, where it comes from. This is, of course, a guarantee for our consumers, ladies and gentlemen, but at the same time the guarantee – we want it so – that we can provide high-quality animals for the Austrian market. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Federal Minister! I would like to make one more point: the performance test, which Austrian cattle farming needs particularly. It needs, above all, the funds available for this. If we have the performance audit and if we want it – and of course also a corresponding factor in sales – then we need this bill of performance audit in the future. Until a few years ago, a solidarity contribution per litre of milk was withdrawn. It was the political will to abolish this contribution. Since then, we have always had problems with the fact that we do not receive sufficient compensation for this performance test. The farmers pay more than a third themselves to this performance check, and of course we need a certain guarantee in the future that we will receive these funds. Federal Minister! I hope and I know you have an open ear for it. I also hope that you will have the necessary funds to do so. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e6336	Mrs Klara Motter asked for an actual correction. Madam Member, you have the floor. Please start with the claim you want to correct.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e6364	Mr President. I'm actually correcting: The Federal Minister has declared that the British Ministry of Foreign Affairs has approached the Austrian Ministry of Agriculture instead of treating animal welfare in the COREPER during the British Presidency in the SAL. That's not right! [[Abg. Auer: He didn't explain that! That's not true!]] I quote from a telefax depeche of 7. November: The British representative reported today, under various circumstances, that the Austrian Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry has approached the British Ministry of Agriculture with the intention to have the dossiers of animal welfare treated during the British Presidency rather than at COREPER in SAL I. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on Green MEPs.]] Federal Minister! I don't know what depees you have, we have the right one anyway.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e6399	Mr Dr. Doppelmüller is now speaking. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e6421	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I would also like to comment on the chapter on agriculture as an environmental speaker of the SPÖ, since a large part of the environmental policy, namely the whole of water protection, falls within the field of this ministry. I should like to make the following comment: I prefer to work with Minister Molterer in his capacity as Minister for the Environment rather than with the actual Minister for the Environment, at least as far as cooperation is concerned. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to refer to the 1996 Water Protection Report. He shows that we have been very successful in this area. All Austrian lakes have bathing water quality, three-quarters of the river basins have quality class II or have even better quality, but it must not be overlooked that some smaller streams and rivers have regional deterioration. However, the success of the renovation is clearly visible in the biological quality images. Waste water treatment and collection could also be significantly expanded. More than three quarters of the population today have a connection to public cleaning facilities. These successes are certainly due to the intensive implementation of the 1990 legislation on water law. Minister! I would remind you that at the time this law on water law was rejected by the FPÖ because it was too rigid for her; later she found it too strict. This innovation has been implemented with significant public investment in reality. I would remind you that more than 60 billion schillings have been used for this between 1990 and today. A weak point is still the groundwater protection. I believe that in the future we will have to rework the funds in the urban water industry. The problems we have with groundwater are largely related to agriculture. However, I would like to be fair and add that this is only partly the case that these problems are undoubtedly also related to old loads, narrow channels and other areas. We know about it relatively well. The groundwater monitoring of the Federal Environment Agency shows us how high the nitrate loads and the loads with pesticide residues are. Federal Minister! We have already established a precise mechanism for setting up rehabilitation areas under the Water Law Act 1990. In fact, relatively little has happened in this respect so far. Two rehabilitation areas in Upper Austria have been identified, but the competent Council of State has firmly refused to adopt the necessary measures. We have made it easier for him to do so with the last water law novel – it was also your proposal – by deleting the 20 percent retention. Unfortunately, I have to say that nothing has yet to happen. – But we know that from the FPÖ councils: They are more concerned with opposition policy than with their concrete work. Federal Minister! Finally, I would like to congratulate you and your employees on the excellent reports we receive from your department. In particular, I have noticed that we have only received our own, easy-to-read and well-explained brochure on the budget from your department. I would like to suggest that this is also introduced in the other areas. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Minister! In the environmental field, we are very pleased with the cooperation with you and we hope for further good cooperation in the coming years.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e6478	The next speaker is Mr Schwarzenberger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e6499	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! [[Intervocations with the liberals, whereby some MEPs point to the sweatshirt with the impression "Salzburg für Olympia" which the speaker wears.]] The model of the Austrian agricultural policy remains a comprehensive agriculture and forestry based on the rural family farms. We have succeeded in maintaining 250 000 farms in Austria. In these 250,000 farms, nearly a million people live, not all of whom work in agriculture but are part of the family circle of rural people. In Switzerland, on the other hand, there are only 80 000 farmers. The Austrian farmers are able to ensure 110 percent of the Austrian diet. We are next to European champions in environmentally sound agriculture. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am pleased that negotiations with the EU have already succeeded in converting the 1995 OPUL programme into a 1998 OPUL programme, which means that environmental support is guaranteed for another five years, for the period 1998 to 2002. We can say: The people's table has never been covered in such a lush manner and in as high quality as it is at present. Ladies and gentlemen! What is the cost of food security and the conservation of the cultural landscape? – It is falsely repeatedly given the impression that the pan-European budget would only consist of the EU budget. Justifiably, if we want to calculate the pan-European share of agriculture, we must combine all national budgets and EU budgets and then divide them by groups. However, Europe's agriculture is estimated to reach just under 2%. This is certainly justified for food security in Europe and for environmental performance. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The question is asked again and again, especially by the liberals: Subsidies or compensatory payments? Dr. Haider! How many faces do you have? . I take the minutes of the budget debate on 21 January. According to Dr Jörg Haidergesagen, Mr Jörg Haiderges said: "Second point: A country which is committed to spending 54 billion schilling alone at the federal level in 1995 for subsidies must ask itself whether there would be no potential for savings that would prevent citizens from being taken into the bag on the other hand." However, all EU payments from Brussels are included in these 54 billion schillings. There's all the subsidies again. The magazine "trend" says: Around 60 percent of EU subsidies are spent on agriculture. Haider is then asked by the magazine "trend": Do you think that this division is modern and fair to small and medium-sized enterprises? Dr. Haider said: The FPÖ is basically against subsidies and in return for low taxes. – So there will be very little of this for small and medium-sized enterprises. We must look for an agricultural programme of the liberals for a long time. I have made the effort to find out the FPÖ programme decided by it on its last federal meeting in October 1997. There are only three very general articles, and with regard to one of these articles, Member Franz Koller has tabled a request for amendment. To this end, it says: Federal Party Board of Directors: It is recommended that you do not. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We from the Austrian People's Party will continue to fight for the livelihood of farmers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Minister Molterer has shown that he is a lawyer of the Austrian farmers in Europe. However, I would also like to take this opportunity to thank both the Minister and the Austrian farmers for their services for the entire economy of Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e6578	Mrs Aumayr has now come to speak. I'll set the clock to 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e6599	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr Schwarzenberger! They have just quoted a request made by Mr Koller to the FPÖ Federal Congress in Linz. But as always, you know only half the truth. As always, Mr Schwarzenberger! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The rejection of Mr Koller's request has therefore been recommended because I have tabled a similar request. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] And this request has been accepted. There is no point in accepting two equilateral requests, Mr President. – Half-truths, as always! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: Weak!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Mr Schwarzenberger! I stand by, and the Freedom Party says: We want to free the farmers from the subsidies, from your promotions, which you are constantly shortening. We want farmers to get a fair income and that this income is constitutionally secured. That distinguishes us from you! [[New condolences with the liberals.]] Another thing: Mr Schwarzenberger and Mr Schwarzböck, and you, Mr Federal Minister, also gave negative opinions on Agenda 2000. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Mr Schwarzenberger! You have made negative comments on Agenda 2000 with Mr Schwarzböck and Mr Molterer. This is also found in the position paper of the SPÖ club. ==References====External links== Adopted on 12 October. It noted that you gave different negative opinions. At the same time, it was called upon to pay particular attention to the fact that there is no watering-up of Agenda 2000 or the prevention of agricultural lobbies in Austria and other Member States. In other words, you can say what you want, the SPÖ Club has decided that Agenda 2000 will come as it has been decided. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: This is a discussion plan!]] Farmers pay for Easter enlargement. That is the only reason why there is this Agenda 2000! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Now to you, Minister of State. Just as your predecessor, Fischler, has performed as an "EU whipper" that has brought farmers to the EU line, you are now acting. They're the biggest "Euro-Peitscher"! They are brainwashing with the farmers – just as the Federal Government does. As the main argument for the euro, Mr Federal Minister, you argue that only with the introduction of the euro our agricultural products are kept price-stabilised. – Quote from the "Agrarian Notes", "Blick to the Land", September 1997. I have to ask you, Minister of State: What prices you want to keep stable do you mean? Do you think the prices that farmers receive now? – These are already 50 percent lower than before EU accession. These prices and their EIA policies have led to more than 8 000 jobs being destroyed in agriculture in a single year. Do you want to keep these prices stable with the euro, Mr. Federal Minister? [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Or, Mr Federal Minister, do you want to keep the euro stable those prices that your party colleague Fischler is now demanding in his Agenda 2000? Do you want to keep the prices, which, according to Fischler's Agenda 2000, are reduced by 10, 20 or 30 percent, stable with the euro? I tell you one thing, Minister of State: All currency fluctuations over the last 50 years have not done nearly such a damage as your agricultural policy! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! This agricultural policy has led to the destruction of 160 000 jobs at farms in 30 years' time. And with your Euro propaganda – it was not too stupid for you to give it to yourself even in committee – you are doing nothing but cheap farming! Where does this EIA's agricultural policy lead? – From one measure to another, the farmers are entitled: from full acquisition to acquisition, from acquisition to acquisition, finally to self-marketing. Again and again, the farmers get into a measure, and when the farmers arrive at the end, they come up with it: They actually speculated, actually they only paid for it. This agricultural policy has nothing but raiffeisen, because there the farmers are guilty, there they have their loans. They were happy to be given them. Farmers were the best debtors, they liked to be taken because they were held with land and land. But now nothing is to be earned to the farmers, now they are delivered to the knife, now their land and land are auctioned! I am inexplicable that you still have the word "genosity" in your mouth. Really unexplained! I have to tell you that! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] For decades you have exploited the farmers, you have abused the idea of raiffeisen. [[Call to the ÖVP: A miracle that there are still the farmers!]] They have taken the shares of the farmers, they have not paid them back, they have not secured them, with a multiple of the shares the farmers have held and still are liable today. Who are the winners? – There you only need to look at Upper Austria. What does the Raiffeisen Central Bank buy up everything there, at totally excessive prices? – The hypo – with it Mr Leitl reorganises his budget – the Efko, the Raiffeisen travel world. You bought everything. They're all farmers' money! They have financed everything with farmers' money, and the farmers are now economically in the end. It is not only the farms that block it, but also the small cooperatives everywhere. In view of this, you still want to go here and say: This agricultural policy is forward-looking, and this agricultural policy is such that young people want to take over the courts again.Unknown term type: "%s".? You are breaking all promises, Mr Schwarzböck! Mr Schwarzböck! They demand in your newspapers that there be no social burden. – Yes, what have you decided now? The co-insurance has fallen. I called you half a year ago, Mr Schwarzböck, and asked you: [[Calls of astonishment at the ÖVP]] Is there something about the subsidiarity of co-insurance with farmers? Mr Schwarzböck! You know what? You told me? You answered me, you put your hand in the fire that this will not come in the near future. – You have already burned yourself, Mr Schwarzböck!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e6731	The next speaker is Mr Auer. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e6753	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is probably indisputable that this 1998 agricultural budget is ultimately safeguarded by the measures taken by the Government and, in particular, by the Federal Minister for Agriculture and represents a reasonable, good agricultural budget for the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The individual measures or projects have been presented by my previous speakers from my group and also from the coalition partner, I think, fairly and openly. They were critically honoured by the opposition – now I say it that way. Ladies and gentlemen! It is obviously the game of government and opposition that the government is positive in its efforts and that the opposition critically examines these projects. That should also be the case in the future. I have actually expected the Freedom Party to present its agricultural programme today so that we can deal seriously with this supposedly so important and so positive programme. I am still waiting for this agricultural programme. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: There's no one!]] Obviously, you're not quite sure which one to take. Is it the Huber plan? This one, I hear, is no longer modern. Or are these applications made at the Federal Party Conference? I would like to say with regret, Mr Koller: Your applications are not valid! You're not worth anything! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Aumayr.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The Huber fell into displeasure!]] The Huber fell into displeasure, I hear. But it may also be that there is another agricultural programme. Since I have undertaken to deal critically with the programmes of the opposition today, I have seen the freedom of the program "complete agricultural policy for consumers and farmers" of the head of state Dr. Jörg Haider. For I suppose that what your federal party says is true. He is, in most cases, the one who sets out the subjects that give the pace and that sets out the reforms. [[Abg. May. Stadler: The ÖVP can never keep up with!]] That is why I have dealt with this programme, ladies and gentlemen. That's where I learned fantastically. I read with astonishment: The farmer must accept the promotion directives with the entire holding, including the leased land. - Ah, look here! A holding that does not hold a large livestock unit, therefore, does not manage anything, receives the highest acres rate. - That's right here! That is to be read, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Haider.]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] I have heard today with amazement that Mr Reichhold has been evocative about the marketing contributions. That's where I read: Marketing contribution. Of course! A cost contribution for the managing director of the Vertriebs-GesmbH must be made by the farmers. Ladies and gentlemen! There were still many other things to show, such as the abandonment of mineral nitrogen fertilizers and other more. [[Abg. Dr. Schwimmer: Whose program is that?]] But something particularly interesting I have heard today, namely that "fearable" Easter enlargement is the problem of the future. But there is literally written: Trade and industry expect additional legitimate sales opportunities to be expected from the very pleasant opening of borders to our eastern neighbours. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Who writes this?]] [[Abg. Aumayr: So what?]] – So there are obviously two tongues in this regard. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Can you give me the paper?]] Ladies and gentlemen! The cooperatives have been addressed here today. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Mr Auer! Give me the paper! Have you manufactured this paper yourself?]] That Ing. Reichhold and Collaborator Schreiner of the cooperatives did not understand, that was known to me. I was only surprised that Mr Prinzhorn, whom I really want to confirm economic and business knowledge, was among those colleagues. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Give me the paper! I'd like to check if you made this yourself!]] For I can only say to what was given by myself today regarding the cooperatives: There are some who have not used their heads to think, but only to put up hats, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Give me the paper once!]] If I read here in this paper that the Raiffeisen-Landesbank provides Upper Austria with strong financial injections for the RWA, I must say: This is clearly wrong, ladies and gentlemen. If I read here that the AMF has 7 billion schilling debts, I also have to say: This is clearly wrong, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Can you give me the paper? Did you invent that yourself?]] There would be a lot to say here. It is true that the current cooperative law clearly and clearly regulates the liability and the provisions for the Management Board and Supervisory Board and the possibilities for the members. The cooperative is the legal form in which the members have the most participation. And to this form of cooperative we confess ourselves. In conclusion, I would like to say: We are pleased that Mr Molterer has presented a positive agricultural budget for 1998.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e6975	As the last speaker in this debate, Mrs Petrovic has been reported. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e6997	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It's strange what's going on here. In itself, the Federal Estimate for the year 1998 is for discussion. I was of the opinion that this was presented by the Federal Government and therefore must be discussed by this House. If it is now more or less the line of the ÖVP to say that there are in their eyes much more unbearable papers from the side of the liberals or, I don't know, from the side of the opposition, then I really wonder: [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler]] What are we debating here? Is it really the line of the ÖVP to say to the agricultural budget: But please the liberals have made a worse paper? To this end, I must say: What is meant by this in connection with the responsibility of the Minister? I do not see a free Minister of Agriculture, nor do I see a green or a liberal Minister of Agriculture, but I see only a Minister of Agriculture who has a high responsibility which he does not fulfil, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Dr. Kier.]] There are more and more people in Austria and also at European level: What is actually going on in the agricultural sector? . I think there is a broad social consensus that we want to secure jobs in agriculture, there is a broad social consensus that this requires solidarity among society as a whole. However, I wonder: What are the rulers doing? What is our government doing, our Minister of Agriculture? The death of small and medium-sized farmers continues to progress. This means that the workplace situation is not secured. Concentration processes continue to progress. And neither the interests of consumers nor the interests of environmental protection are truly represented. I would like to make this clear on the basis of two examples, in particular with regard to the processing and respect of two agricultural-related peoples' desires in this House. First area: Genetic engineering. Ladies and gentlemen! If a Federal Minister says, in the light of a million people's desire, that the question of the use of genetically engineered plants, seeds and so on regarding the promotion decision is not relevant to him, I really ask: Who does he represent? The ÖVP has obviously been instigated and instigated with some of its representatives in the run-up to popular desire there, but now the established ÖVP policy wants to know nothing about the protection of consumers, of the protection of organic farmers. It's on the side of the genetic engineering lobby. That's quite clear! Second area: Animal welfare. As far as this is concerned, we have just become witnesses to a renewed mood between the government parties in this House, and I am really wondering about the foreign office in Vienna in the face of these derisions: How does Austria act, how does this Federal Government act in Brussels? Federal Minister! You have distanced yourself from it before, but I really ask you in every form. This cannot be a mistake – or we are represented with confused people in Brussels – if someone in several paragraphs makes a very clear statement, namely that the Austrian Ministry of Agriculture has tried to bring out the large and broad Causa animal welfare from the Committee of Permanent Representatives and to bring it into the Special Committee on Agriculture. Why are other states, even the United Kingdom, defending themselves when they say: Animal welfare goes far beyond the agricultural sector!Unknown term type: "%s".? That can't be a coincidence! Or is this the expression of will of people who no longer know what they are saying when it says here: What is more, the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, for dossiers for which it is not within the national competence to relocate competence in its favour via Brussels? – So I can’t believe that the description of a matter, minutely and in several paragraphs, is the work of a confused person, a work that has nothing to do with reality at all, and I think that the ÖVP has a huge need for explanation here! [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] What happens if the whole matter of animal welfare is only negotiated by the agricultural lobbyists in the small circle? What comes out of it, we know, is just as much as at the first start of the negotiations on the Austrian Animal Transport Law Street, which were shipped until they could finally be completed in the Transport Committee. That is why it is so important not to leave the cross-sectional matter of animal welfare alone in the field of agricultural representations, because what is happening there is quite clear: There is the animal production agent, there is the animal goods, there the animals are treated or are dealt with with with – and we have seen the films, we have the pictures in front of our eyes – as if there were tree trunks or any non-pain-sensitive matter! This is a European cultural shame, and that must be stopped. [[In the case of the Greens and the Liberal Forum as well as the Abg. Tegian.]] Of course, we will therefore support this clarification request made by the Liberal Forum that the matter of animal welfare should not remain in the SAL Council group but in COREPER, and I shall also make a motion for a resolution on the urgent need for repair of the Austrian animal transport law. It is important to ensure that not only the small employees, the drivers of trucks, but also the directors of the board who order such transports, if they break the Austrian legal order and if the head office of the leading company is abroad, will nevertheless receive their fair punishment, as does any Austrian transporter. I submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I put forward a second motion for a resolution. I mean, especially in times of savings packages, especially in view of the poverty of people in many rural farms, it would be more necessary to promote jobs in agriculture rather than to throw the money out of the window or even to invest in cruelty and brutality. We need a new funding system, which reduces overall costs, i.e. significantly reduces the need for excessive funding, while at the same time preserving labour in agriculture and leaving the promotion of huge areas and large livestock stocks. We can definitely take one step at a time: If this were to be done, Mr Federal Minister, in the Austrian population, then you would be more than 90 percent – I guarantee you – of the majority. This is only prevented by the walls of the ÖVP! In this House too, we have a large two-thirds majority for it, only: They do not allow them because you have a coalition agreement with the SPÖ, but social democracy has not dared to risk a coalition conflict from this occasion. I think, however, that the Austrian population will no longer accept this in the future, and I also expressly thank those officials who give us such information. Without these courageous voices, the ÖVP's game of putting everything under the carpet and creating complete facts behind closed doors could go up. I express my thanks to these officials. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Objection to the ÖVP.]] I submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Schwarzenberger, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! You still have a significant influence on the agricultural bodies, and you have to ask yourself, above all, the question: Where is the development of Austrian agriculture going? There will be no more conventional medium-sized enterprises in 10 to 15 years. There will hopefully be a large organic sector, organic farming, and there will be industrial plants. For Austria, this last branch has no chance due to many circumstances! – Because of your promotion policy, Mrs. Tichy-Schreder! [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: What is this statement based on?]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The Minister of Agriculture has repeatedly said that we cannot completely change the principles with the Agenda 2000, because we have to stay with the area and livestock, and we are creating a bio-segment. Although this is much bigger in Austria than elsewhere – thank God!, I say – but what you do is ultimately niche policy. However, on the grounds of environmental protection, animal welfare and consumer protection, we do not want good organic products to remain in a small niche for high-cost consumers, but we want to open organic farming and valuable food for all of Europe and for all consumers. You must ensure that with your promotion policy!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e7117	Both motions for resolutions, tabled by Mrs Petrovic, have been submitted in accordance with the rules of procedure, have been sufficiently supported and are under negotiation. I have two words left now. Mr. Dr. Haider has reported an actual correction. – Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e7148	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Member of the European Parliament Auer has presented an agricultural programme by Mr Haider as a free agricultural programme. That's wrong! – This is an agricultural programme of the then agricultural reference, which had to be represented in a coalition of FPÖ and ÖVP of this agricultural programme.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e7175	The last word comes from Mr Ing. Reichhold. – Ladies and gentlemen, this is your second speech. You would have a speaking time of 10 minutes at your disposal, but you would like to have two minutes off.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e7196	Mr President. High house! I would just like to say once to the honourable Member. Auer strongly recommend our new, very modern agricultural concept. I will have a personal dedication and give it to Federal Minister Molterer – he is your party friend – where you can pick it up. On the agricultural programme that Dr. Haider developed in Carinthia together with the ÖVP: You know, young man, there's a very important difference... [[General hustle and bustle.]] That was a compliment! There is a very important difference: This agricultural programme was based on voluntaryness. Farmers could have volunteered to participate in this agricultural programme, and they would have voluntarily paid the managing director in our farm company. The difference to you is that you are making a forced policy that you are making compulsory contributions. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The gag, the dependent and the oppression of the peasants, that is your mentality – and not that of the free and free farmers!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e7244	There is no more word message. The debate is closed. A final word is not requested by the Special Rapporteur. I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to take the places because we are voting. We are now voting on the Advisory Group VIII of the Federal Proposal for 1998. This advisory group comprises Chapter 60 of the Federal Proposal, together with the corresponding parts of the economic compensatory estimate in 841 of the Supplements as amended by the Special Report in 910 of the Supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to this advisory group to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. This advisory group has been adopted by a majority. Ladies and gentlemen! Five motions for resolutions were tabled in the course of the debate on this advisory group. Taking into account a general wish of the clubs, it is applied § 55 para. 4 – that is actually the normal case – the vote of these five motions for resolutions will take place after the third reading on this point. Advisory Group XIII Chapter 18: Environment Chapter 19: Youth and family
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e7299	We continue on the agenda and come to the negotiation of the Advisory Group XIII: Environment, youth and family. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. Mr Magistrate has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Schweitzer. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e7326	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The 1997 budget debate once again provides an opportunity to take stock of Austria's environmental location. I would like to start with the habe page once to take up the work of colleagues head. Although the haben-side has hardly changed for years, there are certainly respectable successes that are already older dates, for example in terms of reducing SO2 emissions as regards the reduction in nitrogen oxides and carbon monoxide, and there is also a partial success in water conservation – which has already been addressed by the colleague Doppelmüller. Federal Minister! The reorganisation of the Water Economic Fund has been successful, and there has been an incompetent development of environmental support by the ÖKK since then. An extension of the mandate was quite all right from this point of view. Also, this repair of the problems at that time, which had been in the past for a long time, is to be booked on the haben-page. Federal Minister! However, we are clearly in the field of CO2 reduction. Year after year, we continue to remove ourselves from the Toronto target, and I am curious about how we should actually achieve this reduction that you have announced, which instruments are to be used for it, especially in view of the fact that, as we are now experiencing in the run-up to Kyoto, you are again being put under pressure from your own side – and that is your problem. Thus, the Austrian Chamber of Economics sends a letter in which it pleads for more realism in Austrian climate policy and says that Austria's promised reduction targets are far too high. Bartenstein, says the Austrian Chamber of Commerce. It draws the responsibility of lecturer Dr. Stephan Schwarzer. He says literally: The crash scenario, which results from this, comes from the economy, comes to the country very expensive to stand. Federal Minister! I would be very interested to learn how you will deal with it and what you will say to your party friends in this context before you go to Kyoto. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! The energy tax introduced at the time – and you yourself have announced this with a public survey – has not brought any environmental steering effects. In most countries, there has been a foreign use to stop budget holes. And the new regulation of the General Agreement, as you yourself know and have already admitted by active repentance, is a blow to the face of those who want to benefit from renewable energy sources in the future. Less than 50 sizes per kilowatt hour is disgraceful, Minister! You know that, and that is why you have also responded with the proposed investment fund, but this is a maximum sign of good will, but not really a change in the direction of renewable energy use. Federal Minister! What is completely lacking is an energy organisation law that meets ecological objectives and prevents the sale of the Austrian energy industry. We are already under time pressure, there is no solution. Federal Minister! What's going to be In this context, do you propose to your colleague, Mr Farnleitner? What are your ideas regarding energy organisation law that should prevent this sale of Austria? How far, Mr. Federal Minister – another question – are you preparing the comprehensive environmental tax reform that you have announced? Is there an interim report? If so, how does it look? I know that much of what I am talking about here does not fall to a hundred percent in your competence. The problem is that environmental policy is a cross-cutting matter, that you have to negotiate with your fellow ministers from the Ministry of Agriculture and the Minister for Economic Affairs Farnleitner, and that you also have to reach a consensus with Mr Prammer. I know you're a tearer, but I'd be interested: What are you doing to reach positive conclusions with your fellow ministers on these questions that I have raised? Federal Minister! A very big problem has still not been solved, that is the area of waste management. The new packaging regulation has not solved any of our prophetic problems, the new packaging regulation is economically and ecologically completely unsatisfying. Although the Austrian population is burdened with around 2.5 billion schilling on license fees, this waste management policy is in a catastrophic dead end. The ARA whistles out of the last hole, AGR stands before the compensation, as you know, probably is a connection bankruptcy, and the ÖKK sits on huge plastic mountains, although the payments for disposal have long been made. And especially in these areas, environmental crime has recently inundated, with illegal exports at the expense of the Austrians. In spite of this, Mr Federal Minister, the renewal of the packaging regulation did not allow for the anchoring of the prevention targets required by us, it did not allow for multi-way quotas, and it continued to adhere to the not very meaningful objective of the collection. Federal Minister! How badly it is ordered about the dangerous waste, this always leads us in the aid calls Ruggenthaler from the EBS in front of our eyes. Ruggenthaler has just recently claimed that every year in Austria a new fishing dump is created somewhere, because, as well as in plastic disposal, there is a huge surveillance gap. As soon as, Mr Kopf, collecting waste, it is considered to be disposed of in Austria. This opens the door to business making up to environmental crime. New, increasingly dangerous old loads arise, and our groundwater is under acute threat. This is also evidenced in the environmental report. But we are not even able to clean up the already known old loads. We all know that the existing resources are far from sufficient, even because we do not get under control the tax evasion of the old burden recovery contribution. Hundreds of millions of schillings in tax evasion are still being detected. We just don't get this under control! I mean, I was able to show by a few examples that there is also a lack of control which is so dynamic in Austria's environmental problems. That is why I do not consider the idea of decommissioning the Federal Environment Agency or of partial disseminating. I simply can't share the ideas that have been introduced by the ÖVP. This distribution concept, which is obviously also desired by German Chancellor Klima – and I would expect an answer from SPÖ, which SPÖ really wants in terms of the Federal Environment Agency – is not useful. This cannot be in the sense of environmental movements! UBA Vice-President Peter is right when he says: If you deregulate everywhere, which is good, you can't deregulate control too. The situation of Bartenstein's projects – I would like to mention this once – is extremely problematic for me by the ÖVP project. To the original tasks of the UBA – Karlheinz Kopf, to refresh memory! – include monitoring of the environment and its changes in environmental pollution, in particular through emission and emission measurements, preparation of comments on complaints and suggestions, preparation of reports and technical basis for advertisements in the field of environmental pollution, toxicological investigations, evaluations, provision and documentation of essential work results, in particular for the management of environmental and radiation catastrophes and for the water management disaster. [[Abg. Head: Stay untouched, the tasks!]] [[Abg. Head: Keep everything alive!]] Who will do all these works when the whole thing is privatized? [[Abg. Head: The UBA!]] The UBA laboratories, for example, cannot adhere to market principles about water. They do not make routine samples, but usually highly complicated special samples that are not required on the free market. They are used exclusively by public audit bodies. Who is to demand this on the free market? Who's to pay for it? There's no such thing as that. The opinion of the Ministry of Finance on the project of dissemination states: The economic significance of this project is more than doubtful. – How can this view be achieved if there are no arguments against this exclusion? The UBA Chief Wolfgang Struwe has found that the establishment of an environmental analysis and consulting GmbH will only lead to increased costs, i.e. the opposite of what Minister Bartenstein and the ÖVP expect. Therefore, in this context, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Federal Minister! Environmental control is not to be privatized without loss of quality. It would be more useful to develop the Federal Environment Agency in order to be able to combat the growth sector number one, environmental crime, as I have mentioned, more effectively.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e7421	The one by the honourable Member Mag. Schweitzer's motion for a resolution just presented has been submitted in accordance with the rules of procedure, is sufficiently supported and is included in the negotiations. The next speaker is Mr Deputies' head. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e7451	How did you get that idea? Mr President. [[Abg. May. Stadler: The request of the Constitutional Court is already being made! I've already got him!]] Federal Minister! Mr Stadler, you know that applications are not yet decisions. You know that as a lawyer probably better than I do. [[Complementary of the Abg. Tichy Schreiter.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: But the Constitutional Court...!]] Now let me come to the essentials. [[Abg. May. Stadler: We told you, and now it comes!]] I know that this makes you all a little nervous to go back to the previous debate. It makes you nervous when you are caught, that you change your hat several times within a few years, just as the agricultural representative of the country of Carinthia, ex-land chief Dr. Jörg Haider, who has issued agricultural policy principles, of which he doesn't want to know any more at all, trying to argue that at the time he had a common position as head of state. But that's ridiculous! It says: Dr. Jörg Haider. Is he not on his papers he's publishing? [[Abg. May. Stadler: Karlheinz, that's what the Farmers' Federation asked!]] That's more than embarrassing! There it says: Chief of State Dr. Jörg Haider, and not: Georg Schwarzenberger. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's where the coalition stands! But the ÖVP does not agree with the coalition, that has always been the case! That's why she's also the crash party!]] There it says: Dr. Jörg Haider, and no other name. But I'm sorry about the time, ladies and gentlemen. I don't have so much time at my disposal. I refer to the decreasing air pollution, as confirmed by the Federal Environment Agency in the Environmental Control Report, a pioneering role in water protection and air pollution, confirmed by the OECD report, a leading position in the reduction of SO2 emissions by 85 percent within 15 years. I have thus reached your statement, Mr Schweitzer, that we are removing CO2 emissions from the Toronto target when it comes to reducing CO2 emissions. We are actually removing ourselves from the Toronto target when it comes to reducing CO2 emissions, but we are also removing ourselves from GDP development. We are not satisfied with this, but we are at least removing ourselves from the development of GDP with those of CO2 emissions that do not rise similarly or equally. In fact, energy use does not increase to the same extent. These are already desirable distances. I think we can confirm this positively. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Schweitzer! You also referred to waste management. The OECD has also confirmed a leading point in recycling recyclable material. Austria is in the tip of OECD countries in the recycling of waste paper and waste glass. It is clear that the volume of domestic waste landed on landfills could be reduced by 40 percent from 1990 to 1995. – I can already imagine that you don’t like it. This is a success story of Austrian ÖVP Environment Minister, who, of course, lets out some oppositionists. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] How have our Environment Ministers and we, who have decided on these measures, achieved this? – First of all, environmental budgets – primarily funding budgets – that aim to increase environmental needs in a wide range of directions, and that they will be increased again next year – are planned to increase again in the following year – promotions for national parks, which will at least amount to 148 million schilling next year, so-called special tranches, together with the normal tranche in the urban water industry of a total of 2.9 billion schilling, which will also produce an employment effect in our economy, such as in civil engineering, canal construction, an employment effect that can be seen. The 1998 budget will rise by 800 million Schilling, and the 1999 budget will again be around 700 million Schilling. These are respectable, very remarkable successes of our Environment Minister in the budgetary negotiations with the Minister for Finance, to which you, Mr Minister, can only be congratulated and thanked very much. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In the past, of course, we have also put in place a number of regulatory measures. However, I believe that we have put a large part of the regulatory instruments to an end. We have used our national scope for action well and to the full. The OECD confirms in its report that we have not always achieved these great successes with the lowest possible effort. It was worth it for us, we have to hold it very clearly, but we are certainly at borders. If Austria is counted among the 20 industrialized countries with the highest degree of state influence in the Economic Freedom Index, we must already think about that. That is, among other things, the price for our pioneering role, which we have taken over in environmental policy and which I also stand at. But we must also see that the world economy is becoming more global. The industry is and remains the engine of our economy for foreseeable time. Although we recognize that industrial relations are changing towards service, so to speak, towards a transformation into the next generation, the industry remains the engine of our economy for a foreseeable period of time. If I say that we are encountering the boundaries of regulatory possibilities, I think that – and you, Minister for the Environment, have already made an international advance to this – the job of the Minister for the Environment is changing to an environmental foreign minister, who is not only trying to meet the maximum level of protection and precautions in the national field: It is now also time to get the others into the boat. "Pearder" can't mean we're all riding from it and they don't follow it. We are so far ahead that the others can continue to recognize us as an example, but always try to keep the distance so that they can also come along, because, in many environmental policy areas, national alone can achieve results, but globally, they do not bring the desirable development if the others do not take along. Again: I believe that the possibility of regulatory intervention has been extended in many areas. We come to a point where you really have to say with Cicero: A good morale is sometimes better than a good law. And I believe that this good morale will not only appeal to the Foreign Minister of the Environment in other countries, but it will also produce them, and I am absolutely convinced of that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] One, ladies and gentlemen, surprised me earlier in the debate on agriculture, namely you, Thomas Barmüller, in connection with agriculture and energy policy. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: Don't be mean, I'll come after you!]] You have described the agricultural activity as one that is currently cost-effective, and the promotion, so to speak, is called the income of the farmers. I am opposed to this differentiation and to this division. Promotion is always an incentive for us. Support in the agricultural sector is an incentive to carry out farming activity in a very specific way, in this case sustainable, environmental landscape. This is, of course, not optimal in terms of microeconomics, and then you have to support it. But for us, the agricultural income, i.e. the agricultural market income and the means of support, is a unit that cannot be divided between: here cost coverage and income only through subsidies. We wish the farmers a certain behaviour in their activities, and because this is not just micro-economically optimal, we must compensate for it. Please do not divide this, but see it as a unity! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What are the challenges for environmental policy in the future? – There are primarily two areas facing challenges and challenges: These are soil protection and climate protection. In the field of soil protection, especially as regards agriculture, very, very much, also again by means of incentives – the ÖPUL programme, for example – and our Austrian farmers accept this to an extent, as rarely happens in other countries. We are far ahead, also thanks to members of the government such as our Minister of Agriculture and our Minister for the Environment, who have not decreed everything and every regulatory policy, but who have created incentives for a particular behavior, so instead of a law or a regulatory measure, have transformed this previous morale towards ecological behavior. In the field of climate protection, things are in demand, which Austria alone will be difficult to implement, only difficult to implement meaningfully – for example, environmental tax reform. That's the hour's commandment, not a question at all. But it does not make sense to go beyond the national scope of action, and we would overrun it, Mrs Langthaler! [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: Go, go!]] However, I am moving – at the last conference in Berlin, Environment Ministers and Finance Ministers have also become an initiative – and we have brought Austrians with our Mr. Environment Minister significantly into this area. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Hans Helmut Moser: What direction?]] Finally, on the environment chapter, I note in the budget debate: Our Minister for the Environment has managed to achieve a decisive increase in the budget for environmental promotion in the negotiations with the Minister for Finance. That is not a matter of course in times like this, that is a great achievement. I am also convinced that, over the next few months and years, our Minister for the Environment will have a very strong role to play as a pioneer for us, namely to take the others in Schlepptau, especially in the spirit of a future Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e7654	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Barmüller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e7675	Mr President. Federal Minister! I would like to return to the statements made by my predecessor. You know, my colleague, head, how the place of movement is: If you're in motion, you don't notice. You only notice it if you get accelerated or stopped abruptly. – I am afraid the latter is the case in some areas of environmental policy. This movement you are right now, namely, that everything remains so right and you realize, now it really is no longer going on: the last movement. [[Abg. Head: That's not movement!]] I can prove it, too. If it is said that the ecological tax reform is something that would overrun our national scope of action, I must say that I can well remember that the same thing was said last year or two years ago with regard to energy taxation. [[Abg. Head: That was done!]] Wait a minute! The same argument is applied to the energy tax: We can't do that, which would limit competitiveness too much. – Last but not least, Mr Bartenstein, Minister of State Molterer and then Minister of Science Busek – the study did not finish at the time of his term of office – commissioned a study of what national areas of play in the field of environmental tax reform – energy taxation – look like. And, look, it's come out that there's a national margin. It was interesting to have blocked all the time, as long as this was under the ecological variant, but when the price of 10 sizes per kilowatt hour of electricity plus VAT was introduced, it was possible at once – however, for budget renovation, not for environmental reasons. The fact that this measure has been implemented exclusively for the purpose of budget adjustment is seen only from the fact that renewable energy sources have not yet been excluded from the electricity tax. That's why I'm saying: That too is a claim of protection. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: He can't do it!]] No, that's not true. There is a principle of unanimity in the government, and it is therefore the case that any reform must be carried by all the ministers in the government, whether male or female. I would just like to point out what seems to be the premise: If we want to do something for ecological reasons, there's no room. But if we do it for budget recovery, then there is him very well. It is known that in promoting renewable energy sources we would be much more advanced with a large amount per kilowatt hour than with what we have done so far. I would also like to say in this debate that it was not least Mr Bartenstein, together with Mr Molterer, who, after a reorganisation in the field of electricity, had not been possible to the extent that it would have been compatible with renewable energy sources, said: Okay, then we'll make our own pot with 300 million schilling. That's good. That's something that's positive. But it is not what we need in order to restructure our energy system. There has been a failure on the part of the national energy suppliers, which, I would like to say in this debate, are firmly in the hands of the ÖVP. The "black" national leaders are those who are the owners there. And we know what did to Lambach in Upper Austria, for example, the head of state Pühringer. [[In the case of the Liberal Forum as well as the Abg. Ing. Langthaler.]] [[Abg. Head: Ownership of the countries! We're elected by the people there!]] – This is theoretically true, this view will be accepted by every lawyer. It is true, however, that there is a real political component of party membership and admissibility behind it. To this end, I think you can really say: The environmental budget is business as usual. What has always been done has been further written, because the funding for environmental measures, for the restoration of old-age and the settlement water industry, will amount to 3.4 billion schilling this year too. This is the big pieces of the total budget – rounded up 3.9 billion – and there is not much going on. [[Abg. Head: This moves a lot!]] The conversion of urban water support to annuity subsidies has brought about something at the beginning, because expenditure has fallen, but this margin is no longer legible for 1998. Staff costs now increase by 5 percent, which is not excessive. It is already true that the debate which is currently taking place in the UBA, Mr Federal Minister, may be based on a different level of information. I would be very pleased if you once had an authentic information for the political groups about what is planned in this area, because otherwise you will always depend on what is in newspapers, what you get in rumors or what you can get out of other sources to interpret and merge. Finally, one must also respond to this information before the things are definitely finished, otherwise it is too late. I would therefore be very pleased if, for all political groups – I would definitely like it to be for the Liberals – there was an information which contained in concrete terms what your last position on this matter is and what you think you must do in this matter. Unfortunately, I have to limit my remarks on the environmental budget, since I have had to use a good part of my speaking time in the debate on agriculture to ensure that the EIA does not remove the animal welfare agents from the committee itself at European level and enter into the market order. I am not only missing — I say this again — on individual legislative proposals, but also on this budget, that what is stated in the Government's agreement, namely that the environmental guidelines of the National Environmental Plan must be implemented, will be implemented. [[Abg. Head: But in all subjects!]] That is right, but that must also be found in it. And especially in the field of environmental tax reform, for example, as regards the cost-truth that has been raised, it is not there. I believe that we still need a great deal of rethinking, and we will also note this through our voting on this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e7787	Next word: Mr Brix. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e7808	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me first to replicate a milestone in Austrian environmental policy, which is very closely linked to today's budget, namely the Federal Environment Agency, which was founded in 1985 by the then Minister of State Steyrer and the then State Secretary and expert Ferrari-Brunnenfeld. Today, this Federal Environment Agency is still fulfilling those tasks that allow Austrians such a high environmental standard. The tasks carried out by the UBA are done by women and men who are independent, ineffective and objective. However, since it is also financially independent, reports and opinions can be prepared there, so that we can make environmental policy and force people into a reasonable environmental policy. [[Abg. Head: They will continue to be able to do so!]] [[Abg. Head: We're making politics! They're preparing!]] Very right, Mr Head, we are doing the policy, but we are being supplied with the documents – I have said this before – from the Federal Environment Agency. [[Abg. Head: To make this clear!]] These documents are decent and neat. The Federal Environment Agency therefore needs the protection of all those who want to make or have a decent environmental policy in Austria. Federal Minister! Their first proposal for a so-called partial breakdown was the destruction of the Federal Environment Agency, because this would no longer have the independence and objectivity it currently has. There was also nothing in the budget – that people from the Court of Auditors have found – but would probably even bring higher personnel costs in the future. [[Abg. Head: Otherwise it gets more expensive!]] I therefore believe that the proposal of the Social Democrats, namely an overall breakdown, as Mr Schweitzer has already suggested, would certainly be more favourable and better, because a Federal Environment Agency, Mr Langthaler, could act independently, objectively and with a decent basic financial equipment, as it now operates. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Full distribution!]] [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: What does that bring?]] This would have an advantage: because of its objectivity it could still earn the butter on the bread by not only fulfilling all the public contracts but also moving on the market and providing additional services there. Federal Minister! We'll be negotiating about it in the next time, and I'm convinced that... [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: That means the funding remains as before!]] Basic funding must be available, yes. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Valorized or not?]] [[Abg. Head: We abolished the Valorizations!]] Federal Minister! We will certainly have a decent outcome in the negotiations with you. That is why we cannot support your request, Mr Schweitzer, to the FPÖ's request at the moment. We simply cannot agree with this because we believe that a total distribution – the self-employment and with its own financial resources – is better. It must be ensured that this Federal Environment Agency continues to provide Parliament with its environmental report and that it must continue to take action everywhere, and that it is intended to bring objective environmental reporting. Therefore, once again: We are opposed to partial exclusion, but we can take a common approach with you, Mr Federal Minister, if you receive the Federal Environment Agency as a sovereign, objective body of this Republic within the framework of an overall distribution.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e7955	Mrs Ing. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Langthaler. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e7976	Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning of my remarks, I would like to deal with the Federal Environment Agency immediately in response to the statements made by my predecessor, and to reject the following: We Greens believe that it is necessary not only to preserve the Federal Environment Agency as a control body but also to develop its rights and to expand its possibilities. One should not discuss reducing the resources, but consider how to ensure and develop environmental control in this country, what one can do, both in terms of personnel, in terms of existing infrastructure, and in terms of financial resources, in order to further develop the Federal Environment Agency. We have always been very much opposed to partial exclusion, especially because we fear – we have similar fears – that this will create a dependence on the orders of those institutions that the Federal Environment Agency should examine. We have always compared this with a partial privatisation of the Court of Auditors, where it would then be the case that the Court of Auditors should examine in the morning those companies from which it should acquire the projects and the corresponding orders in the afternoon. I can't. A compatibility is impossible. Someone who exercises control cannot get orders on the market and control those companies for which he then works as objectively as he used to. It must at the same time serve these companies as employees. However, the advantage of full exclusion is still not conclusive for me. I can't understand what it's supposed to be doing on the budget either. Mr Brix said that the Federal Environment Agency could, as it were, earn the butter on bread. I understood him in such a way that it should be possible to go further outside and get orders on the market. – But why should the Federal Environment Agency actually get into the situation of getting orders on the market? [[Abg. Brix: In addition, colleague Langthaler!]] I mean, it's a public task to carry out environmental control. It must be worth it to us – and we have the budgetary authority here – to decide on an environmental budget which ensures long-term control of environmental legislation and allows the Federal Environment Agency to produce the reports as before, without the need to acquire additional money on the free market. [[Abg. Brix: Not "soll", the "may" and "can" and thus has the opportunity to provide the knowledge to others!]] The possibility is to be created, well, then you have to look at it in detail. I am glad that there is, however, a majority opinion here in the House that the Federal Environment Agency should, in general, be left as it is at present, so that it is really safe and, for example, for the laboratory units, it is not necessary to get orders from companies that should actually control it objectively. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Head.]] We will observe very closely the negotiations which are obviously being conducted by the government parties in this regard and we would also ask that the opposition parties be involved in any form. The Federal Environment Agency is working not only for the SPÖ and ÖVP groups in this House, but for all parliamentary groups and for the Federal Government. We therefore very much hope that we will not only be confronted with a proposal in committee, but we will be involved in the negotiations which Mr Brix mentioned in time. [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] Now, in concrete terms, on the environmental debate on the budget chapter of the environment. Member's head! What I regret about the budget debates we are having here and which are, in general, a ritual, is that, when it comes to playing a major theatre for the public, the representatives of the government parties are unable to have a certain critical distance to their ministers. This does not mean that everything that the Minister for the Environment is trying or doing is to be condemned in Bausch and Arche, but it should at least be partially successful to see where there are still serious problems in the environment. It is absurd to say here in every environmental debate that Austria is a great pioneer country and that the Minister for the Environment is at all the best and does everything to maintain this pioneering position, and that we cannot do anything in the field of eco-tax, because there is no national scope in this area and everything is already exhausted; and then "place one more movement". – honourable Member's head! That's so absurd! No one in Europe or elsewhere believes that Austria is the great pioneer in environmental policy. It is true that we are in the incredibly happy situation, which is partly geographically dependent, and partly historically, that we actually have a very good environment. [[Abg. Head: You can't seriously mean that!]] [[Abg. Brix: I remember that we were the first country to run lake-cleaning!]] I admit – before They are even more excited – that in the field of the anti-atomic movement and in the context of Hainburg we have in a sense taken a pioneering role, but it was taken by the Austrian population, and the government then had to go after it, because the Austrian population had an incredible mood of departure, an incredible awareness of it – it was also true of the genetic engineering people's desire. [[Abg. Head: But we did it, unlike other countries!]] But that was the population that tried to drive the government in a more ecological direction, not the government! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Head: Don't divide that!]] To put himself here always, Mr Deputies' Head, and to say: We're so great, and the Environment Minister is world champion at all, is simply absurd. [[Abg. Head: Yes, if it is!]] – It is not so, and I would like to illustrate this by an example, namely the current example of climate protection and energy policy, where Austria is a grandma – forgive me for this expression, but it is simply so. The Minister for the Environment says on every occasion, whether in Austria or at European level: We commit ourselves to reducing CO2 emissions, minus 25 percent by 2010. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein.]] I think it's great that he says that. I hope that we will also comply with the Toronto target, minus 20 percent by 2005. From the point of view of the objective, this is, in any case, to be very supportive, and for that he should also be praised. [[Abg. Head: He is not just praised for it!]] But what is not worthy of praise to him and what one has to show is that these words do not follow. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We in Austria are still faced with the situation that we have rising CO2 values and not falling CO2 values. [[Abg. Head: Karl Schweitzer has already bothered that he has defined only the goal!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] You will now tell me again that this is not true, although the CO2 values for 1996 are not yet available. We may agree that in Austria we undoubtedly have a stabilisation at an extremely high level and are miles away from achieving the so-called Toronto target. We simply make our way by step, if at every international conference, including in Kyoto or before, or after that, we believe that we are the world champions of the environment, and we promise a reduction of 25 percent in CO2, but do not follow it. I support this objective and am very glad to see the Federal Government holding to this objective, but then we must also take measures in the area of thermal insulation, measures in the field of countries where Article 15a is concerned – which have been in the drawer for two years – and measures to ecologize the tax system – and I emphasize that there is a large national margin! – measures in the transport sector, measures to promote alternative energies far stronger; many areas which unfortunately do not fall within the competence of the Minister for the Environment. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: He would want it!]] What I miss, therefore, in every environmental debate, especially by the Minister for the Environment himself, but also by your remarks, Mr Head, is that one finally realizes that environmental protection must be treated in an interdisciplinary manner, that other partners must be convinced that one must fight for his ideas and beliefs. You have in your party Mr Farnleitner, Minister of Economic Affairs, who does nothing in this direction. Nor do I see any relevant transport concepts from the Minister of Transport. [[Abg. Head: He's not yet at the ÖVP!]] – Right, that concerns the Social Democrats, but that does not matter in this context. There is a great national environmental plan, which unfortunately disappeared in the drawer after it was discussed here, but which contains a lot of good ideas and concepts. It would be necessary for the Minister for the Environment to finally pursue these objectives of the National Environmental Plan in the Federal Government. But that's not happening! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Umweltminister! The biggest accusation to you is that it cannot be recognized that you are fighting for precisely these goals in the Federal Government. You would have any support from Members who are working for environmental protection, you would have any support from the environmental movement if you were finally trying to win the Minister of Energy, the Minister of Transport and also the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, who here spoke of a large investment programme in the field of thermal insulation, for environmental measures. To this day, this has not happened. [[Abg. Head: The Minister of Finance has voted in favour of ecologizing the tax system, which is progress!]] The so-called climate protection billions that we are supposed to decide here today are not used by the countries in accordance. For example, the state of Vienna has openly admitted, in an answer to a question from us, that it simply does not use the funds it receives from the so-called small energy tax for climate protection measures. – Minister for the Environment! I hope that you will not only look at this, but at last draw the consequence of it and have these "climate protection billions" – under quotations – with a commitment of purpose and coordination with the Minister of Finance. Finally, on the area of old loads, for which the funds have been missing for years, because money is largely withdrawn. I quote from an article in the "Salzburger Nachrichten" of 4. November: "Every year, the federal government goes through three-digit million amounts of landfill charges. The communities are also dizzying. In Graz alone, it's about 8 million schilling a year." - Quote. The city of Graz does not deliver old-age contributions on the brink of illegality – I would call it that – but rather defines this depository property as a support measure for a landfill and thus dwindles around the old load contribution. We're missing millions of amounts for old-age rehabilitation. I do not see sufficient control in this area by you, Mr Environment Minister. I do not see that you are really addressing this problem consistently. The fishing landfill is still not rehabilitated – it is only one of many old loads, so to speak, the paradealt load of Austria, but there are many small fishing landfills that are simply not rehabilitated, because partly the funds are missing. That is what you are responsible for, Mr Environment Minister. They are not responsible for much, but they are. There's a lack of commitment. At any rate, the public does not see that you are really committed to doing so. Environmental policy is finally to be seen in an interdisciplinary way! You must fight with your colleagues for it, you must take the National Environmental Plan seriously, and you must understand that it is important to win a Minister of Economic Affairs, a Minister of Finance and a Minister for Transport and your proposals, otherwise you can promise in Kyoto what you want, you will simply never achieve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e8215	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e8236	Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the House! It is not as Mr Barmüller said, namely that the environmental budget represents nothing but business as usual. The figures alone prove the opposite: The budget chapter 18: In 1998, the environment showed an increase of no less than 800 million schilling from 3.1 billion schilling to 3.9 billion schilling. Although much results from the liquidity calculation of the settlement water industry, Mr Barmüller, I should like to point out that we had a record year of environmental promotion in 1997. 7.4 billion schilling have gone into the urban water industry, the old-age renovation, the general environmental promotion. So it was an absolute record year. These measures also had a major impact on employment in the regions. Ladies and gentlemen! Nor should it be forgotten that the increase in the budget for our national parks from 106 million schilling to 148 million schilling from 1997 to 1998 naturally has to do with the fact that we are setting up and opening new national parks: Last year alone, we have opened three, namely the Kalkalpen National Park, the Thayatal National Park, and it is only just over a year since we were able to implement the Danube Auen National Park by means of a state agreement, by means of Article 15a of the Treaty. So there are very certain accents in the field of environmental policy, there are priorities, and "business as usual" is certainly not. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mrs Langthaler! They spoke of the "Environmental Grandmother" Austria. [[Abg. Head: (in the direction of Deputies Ing. Langthaler) That was a promise!]] I wrote this down before you said it in the debate. A few weeks ago, you said this very media-effectively at a press conference. On the other hand, during the United Nations Special General Assembly in June in New York, a leading foreign-political commentator from Austria spoke of the "Environmental Major Power" of Austria. [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: Diplomats are always very polite!]] Who is right: Mrs Langthaler with the "environmental grandma" or a leading commentator with the "environmental magnificence"? – I would rather stick to the leading foreign policy commentator. This can also be demonstrated by figures. Mrs Langthaler! I believe that our climate policy can also be demonstrated by figures. It is certainly only a first partial success, but nevertheless a partial success that we have been able to stabilise CO2 emissions since 1990. Some other countries could not. It is certainly very remarkable internationally that, although we do not have nuclear power plants in Austria, we only have a per capita CO2 emission of over seven tonnes. The Americans are almost 20 tonnes per year, and in the EU section, the industrialized countries comparable to Austria are 10 tonnes and above. It can therefore be proved from figures that we are already very good in international comparison, although I acknowledge to you that further efforts will be necessary to achieve the Toronto target. But for the sake of good order, I would also like to say: They spoke of 25 percent of CO2 emissions by 2010. No, it's 25 percent minus greenhouse gases. This is important because CO2 is 80 percent – but only 80 percent – of which. It is also important because this objective, which I have brought into our EU position after corresponding coordination at government level, is exactly that which is already defined with the Toronto target in 2005. It is not I, as someone said yesterday, who is speaking ahead, but it is the commitment of Austria to the Toronto target in the 1993 energy report, so at a time when I was not an environmental minister for a long time. This energy report was then taken note of by a large majority of this House. I do nothing else and no more and no less than meet these requirements, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: This must be said to the stupid!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! There will be a great effort to achieve a somewhat tangible success in Kyoto at the very important climate change conference. I am very concerned, having heard yesterday from the United States official, that President Clinton, as the position of the Americans, indicated stabilisation between 2008 and 2012, and that this position in Kyoto is absolutely unnegotiable. I am therefore concerned because negotiations in a major conference, where a very essential side says that their position is not negotiable, do not promise anything good. It was therefore important that I made use of the last days – it was yesterday evening in Vienna – with my German colleague Merkel and with my French colleague Dominique Voynet, at a bilateral level, to make it clear that the European Union remains there consistently and offensively and that we did so on 3 March. This year, the Environment Council decided on the objective and commitment to achieve a 15 percent reduction in greenhouse gases by 2010, to consistently bring it into Kyoto and to negotiate with the Americans. I am glad that the Austrian delegation, among other things, will also consist of environmental speakers from the political groups in this House. This will make us strong, and this will significantly improve Austria's position in Kyoto. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! I should also like to comment briefly on the next subject, the Federal Environment Agency. I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Brix, for the will of the Social Democrats to reform the Federal Environment Agency in a sensible way, which should lead to a strengthening of the Federal Environment Agency, which should not doubt the independence of the Federal Environment Agency. But that your proposal has been to go towards full exclusion – you have indirectly said that it would have been against my will – is not true, Mr Brix! I spoke of participation in the sense of being present, including in the direction of our coalition partner, and I assumed it, but both, both partial and full distribution, are feasible and sensible. You do not have to persuade me, ladies and gentlemen Brix, who I have been dealing with this issue for many months. We can work together in this way. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Now on the last subject I would like to make a brief comment – I can speak later in the debate as a family minister – on the question of: What does the Environment Agency do for Alternative Energys? Ladies and gentlemen! I mean, it's not that bad when my colleague, Mr Willi Molterer, and I set up an eco-energy fund and teach with 300 million schillings. 150 million of these are dedicated to energy, heat energy, as well as electricity from biomass and biogas. Half of this comes from the environment and half from the agricultural sector. We will promote all other alternative energies from the second part, which only finances the environment. These are 150 million schilling for wind energy, for photovoltaics, but also for power-heat coupling and more. I think it's useful. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] I would have been happier if, Mr Schweitzer, I could have succeeded in establishing a contract with the E-Economics, which would have guaranteed import tariffs which would satisfy what I had proposed, at least a customs tariff clearly above that of the union. I myself, or the environment, cannot possibly promote or support feed-in tariffs, which is purely technical. But the second best solution is the EcoEnergy Fund. He has been taught in an altitude far beyond what happened in the summer as part of the so-called General Agreement between the E-Economy and the Ministry of Energy. [[As a result of this, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the European Parliament. Barmüller and Ing. Langthaler.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If it is now going in the direction that an electrical organisation law – that is, I think, quite correctly – should soon come as a government template, I say quite clearly: One of the most important aspects of the preliminary discussions and preliminary review was that a clear ecological objective is set in this law, namely that the share of electricity coming from renewable energy sources – which is once not meant by hydropower, although of course also renewable; but we speak of alternative renewable energy sources – is to be measured by 3 per cent by 2003 and that it would be desirable for other incentives, other incentives, in the direction of ecologicalisation, to be given to electricity generation. I recognise – and this is what we all do together – that the production of electricity in our country, after the absence of nuclear power, by far more than two thirds – partly 70 percent – of electricity from hydropower is an ecological one, at least in the international comparison. But those who are good should try to get even better, and we want to do so in this context. [[Congratulation with ÖVP and SPÖ as well as the Abg. May. Barmüller.]] A second last point, to which I would also like to say something – I ask you to allow me, ladies and gentlemen of the House – is the question of old-age rehabilitation. It is not true that there have been three-digit millions of evasions and that environmental and financial ministers have looked forward to the inaction. In particular, the House has given me an instrument through a modern old-age recovery law, which makes it much easier for us to bring in – let me say this – these contributions, and that already works. We have already reached the level of contribution this September, which we recorded throughout the year 1996, and I am optimistic that in 1997 we will at least be able to reach over 400 million schillings. As I see it, there is a positive trend that will continue in the coming years, as well as in the budget. Nevertheless, I say quite openly: I am glad that I am not financially responsible for the fishing landfill, as it is a replacement measure. The billions for the fishing deposit and the Berger deposit would not have been found in our budgets. We should have received extraordinary resources for this, as well as for the interior. A final request to you, honourable Member Schweitzer: Joint efforts have been made to enable Altglas Recycling Austria not to have to apply for compensation but to carry out the operation. I am far from being able to understand what you have said, namely that there is likely to be a failure to connect. . I would ask you, honourable Member, since I do not believe that your knowledge in this regard is much better than mine, to be careful with such statements. There people are busy, there are jobs, and in the end it is also a question of putting the old glass recycling in Austria, in cooperation between industry, collectors and municipalities et cetera, on new, also financially sustainable legs. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: That would be good!]] I thank you, Mr President, for giving the word.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e8347	Thank you very much, Minister of State. The next speech is by Mrs Moser. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e8371	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Not only the position of power in the environment, but also the position in the family policy area is already being conquered by you. . I would like to congratulate and speak on the budget situation in general and on the Family Advisory Act Novelle. Point one: We have a positive development in the FLAF. That's why we're paying back our debts. We all know how they came about. In 1999, however, something special will happen, something in conformity with the law, something that has not been daily since 1991: In the sense of § 40 para. 2 we will meet the law requirements in the FLAF again. § 40 para. 2 calls for a third of the total expenditure in the reserve fund to be saved. This did not always succeed in a whole third until 1991, but we will be able to comply with this law from 1999 onwards. On the Family Advisory Act-Novelle: In the face of all the pressure to be economical, the Federal Minister has been very active. There will be 10 million schilling more for the necessary use and for the focus in the family advisory services. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] The family counsellors have great importance for the low-tension and preventive psychosocial care of families. They are often the only realistically accessible advice service for families with problems, especially in the rural area. There have been them since 1974, currently there are around 300 jobs throughout the country. They offer a proven, comprehensive consultation offer. There, fantastic work is being done – the acceptance of the family advisory services increased and increased – but not only there, but also for many years in the family ministry and especially in the responsible section of the family and in the special section with Dr. Janda. Thank you all! [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] But everything comes into the years, and so we now have a family advisory law novelle. This opposite novel is intended to respond to changes in the practical nature of the consultation and to allow for a more appropriate promotion of the advisory bodies. The following changes are planned: The withdrawal of the maximum amount of funding, free advice, which should continue to be given, will only be possible in the future. The obligation of confidentiality should be improved, and the doctor should be consulted if necessary. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Only if necessary!]] I am totally incomprehensible about opinions such as the serious question of the continuation of family advisory services in their current form by means of the proposed legislative measures. If our doctors were to make such a diagnosis, then the funeral institutes would probably have a high level of economy. The Novelle Family Advisory Act was adopted in 1974 as a follow-up to the deadline solution, with the primary intention of offering free and anonymous advice to pregnant women on personal and financial difficulties and in addition to providing advice on family planning. The novelle thus contains extremely positive intentions; it takes into account reality. For example, if it is said that the maximum amount of support should not be paid, I must say: This is particularly positive if this makes it possible to set all the priorities that have been addressed. Prior priorities, such as those taking place in the preventive area, are recognised and forced, which can be described as a gain for family advice as a whole. In the sense of the multifunctional centers, the disappearance of the ceiling is seen very positively. I would like to ask you a request from the many consultative bodies: they will find out at an early stage what amount they can expect. In order to ensure the continuous and stable advice of people in difficult and stressful situations, a carrier needs stable financial conditions. The focus education, such as sect and drug advice, assistance against violence and mediation, is without exception excellent. For free advice: It is not intended to evade free time, nor to remove silence and anonymity. There is also no need to contribute to additional administrative burden, but it is thought of a voluntary, anonymous cost contribution, as it is often asked and done by the client. So the family advisory services will by no means become a profit organization with economic constraints. No one wants to raise the economic performance of the clients, no one wants to lead payment guarantees. The received financial resources are directly to the benefit of the Family Advisory Office. So offers can be extended, economic thinking is promoted. They all know that jobs are well known to be created by successful companies and not by public authorities. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] By means of the additional funds, we increase the amount of space available, allow further work to be done in the family advisory services, and thus respond to the need for real life. The subsidy of the federal government is not shortened by these donations. The latter offer the family advisory services only a larger scope. On point three, the obligation to keep secret: It is now based on the Medical Law and should be based on the Psychotherapy Act in the future. This ensures real silence. Fourth: The doctor may be taken optional in the future. While the doctor’s chamber and the ministry of women were not affected by the limited possibility, in the family counsellors themselves the demand actually shows voids of the doctors present there. One last thing: Psychotherapists want to be included in the Family Advisory Act as a professional group. They were annoyed by statements from the Ministry of Health. Ladies and gentlemen! This is now – let me say this openly – a gratification: Where does advice stop, where does therapy begin? – Therapeutic measures, psychoanalysis and the like cannot take place in the family advisory services for financial reasons. My thanks to all the teams of the family advisory services!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e8432	Mrs Haller has now come to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 9 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e8453	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! We are talking about the budget, and I really want to do so, because my predecessor, Mrs Moser, seems to have overlooked the fact that last week we adopted the Family Advisory Act with the votes of the liberals. It is also possible, however, that it is not so familiar when reading a budget. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Objection to the ÖVP.]] No, you didn't say anything about the budget, Mrs. Family Spokesman of the ÖVP! Apparently it doesn't tell you either! Well, the budget is a statement of revenue and expenditure, in which, unlike the economic result of an enterprise, wealth status is missing. That the whole budget was a very difficult matter, it is clear all of Austria. A proof of this is also that the success or deficit data are not in line with the government's budget programme from 1996 to 2000 and that budget tricks have been applied. Budget trick number one: simply accept the key dates at any time; that is as safe as the Amen in prayer. The Minister for Family Affairs admittedly has a rather narrow scope in his area, but there too there has been the possibility for creative accounting. Above all, the family budget is a strong proof that there has been a large number of "expenditure reduction packages" in Austria, which the families in particular have met. Federal Minister! This budget is also proof that you once again carried out budget recovery at the expense of the Austrian families and that you are seamlessly continuing the practice of systematic elimination of the FLAF in favour of other budgets. I really address this accusation to you, Mr Federal Minister, that you do not stand up to this trend for many years. How else could it be explained that the reorganisation of the FLAF has total silence on its part? How else could it be explained that in the field of self-employment – in the light of these huge savings measures on the back of the families – gifts continue to be made annually to the federal government and countries in an order of 1.5 billion schilling? – They do not oppose it. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] How else can it be explained, Mr Federal Minister, that you have failed to see how 500 million schillings do not come to families about a week's money, but, once again, to the budget of the Social Minister? How else could it be explained that the reduction in expenditure by the reduction in the number of leaves of 2.5 billion Schilling is the only way to benefit the Minister of Social Affairs? – Mrs Colleague, you had the opportunity to say something about this earlier. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Sonja Moser.]] Or: The recovery of the increased carnage money from the fathers of immoral children, which seems to have collected from the Minister of Finance, and the Minister of Family has not even taken care of the amount of inputs. Federal Minister! I have to tell you: Your answer to my question in the Committee on Budgets with regard to the abolition of self-employment was very significant. They have literally said: The construction of the financial compensation is a very sensitive one, and it is therefore to be added, and no measures are planned. – You have literally said that. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein.]] Federal Minister! We are not satisfied with this. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We require you to make more use of it, even with regard to the cases of hardness by the removal of the home travel aid. Please do not always talk about your coalition partner and that no funds are available in the FLAF. They themselves have said in the Committee on Budgets that the surplus there is already 2.2 billion schilling this year, will be 3.8 billion schilling in 1998 and will increase to 9.1 billion shilling by the year 2000 under the current conditions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Sonja Moser.]] However, this would be even more beneficial, Mrs Family Spokesman of the ÖVP, if one introduced a better distribution in the field of karenz money, or if one finally confessed to the abolition of self-employment. There would be 4 billion more schilling in every year! Federal Minister! However, we also expect to be more committed to improving the handling of the Family Hard-Equation Fund. We expect a better commitment to the fact that, at last, like other transfers, family aid will be valued, practically as compensation, as a solidarity balance between young and old; Pensions have always been valorized. Federal Minister! We also expect your commitment to a concern that is particularly important to us liberals: the childcare check. In the foreseeable future, a study by the ÖIF is expected to be positive, which I believe will be regarded as positive to the other people as well. I ask you to definitely include the child care check in the ÖVP's family programme, that you do not go to glue the left defamation campaigns currently being carried out in all the Austrian states and that you do not give up again small! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] – Perhaps you do not know because you have never taken care of families, Mr Parnigoni! That is why I also make two requests, Mr Federal Minister, and I expect you to take them seriously. The first application concerns the valorisation of family aid. It says: [[Quoted print version removed]] The second request concerns child care check. [[Quoted print version removed]] If you're serious about this, you could join this request. Now fast to family taxation. Federal Minister! Yesterday, the association of Austrian taxpayers listed the family division as one of the measures that conform to knowledge, and it has not been established since today. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We liberals have been our model for years. It is still compliant with knowledge, and it would even be in conformity with knowledge if we were to reduce the factor from 0.6 to 0.5 – which would amount to an approval of between 5 and 6 billion schilling. Federal Minister! Under these conditions, I think it would be appropriate for you to include the model of freedom in the Commission's considerations, because both Their model, as well as that of the Ministry of Finance, is not in accordance with the current implementation, while the model of the Ministry of Finance still has further errors in the calculation, as is the case with the Ministry of Finance in the matter of family taxation for years. I would therefore ask you to: You should really think about including the largest opposition party in this Commission in the considerations of this Commission so that this infinite history of family taxation will be brought to an end as soon as possible. I could imagine that the complainants would also be inclined to agree to a compromise. Finally, because my speaking time is coming to an end: Mr. Family Minister! Mistakes happen everywhere. In your issue to the budget of 30. In October it announced that 10.5 billion would have to be charged for the recovery aid. – That’s not true; it’s 10.5 million.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e8648	The two selected motions for resolutions have been properly submitted, duly supported and are therefore under negotiation. Mrs Dr. Mertel. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e8672	Mr President. Minister! High house! The Family Allowance Fund is often referred to as the core of family support, and I can only agree with that, because 55.6 billion Schilling, which is planned for 1998, are an essential part of the mix of money, property and insurance for our families. I am going to stick to my speech concept relatively strictly, as I have a voluntary agreement with my colleagues from the Socialist Group, and most of the time I hold to it. [[Abg. Gaugg: Mostly! Not always! That's interesting!]] – With my colleagues on the left! Of course, it would mean to carry owls to Athens, but I still say it: We must not overlook the fact that FLAF finances family allowances, free movement of students, schoolbooks, which are guaranteed in the budget. The FLAF, i.e. the family compensation fund, also finances maintenance advances, mother-child passport examinations, pension contributions on leave, care for nurses, part of the care allowance, the weekly allowance, which is now increased from 250 to 300 s for mothers who work in the industrial economy or independently in agriculture. I think that the family advisory services would also be worth a word, but we have already heard a broad legend in several continuations of Mrs Moser's report, so I do not need to comment on it anymore. A comment on Mrs Haller's comments, which have been relatively hard again, this time to the honourable Member Moser. Mrs. Haller, you have made two requests. On the one hand, I would like to say that, of course, that is the main task, the surplus of the Fund, which will undoubtedly be present, must be paid back once to the budget which has covered the previous deficits. In spite of the lack of time, however, I must say a sentence to Mrs Moser: They have found that successful jobs are only created by private hands and not by public authorities. But that's why I wonder why you're pushing into the public hand. [[==References====External links== Ing. Langthaler.]] Back to family support. I believe that our system has proved itself in principle. We also took the path of consolidation at FLAF. In the end, high deficits in the fund would not have helped families, they were remunerated from the general tax resources. But one thing we should already ask: whether the individual savings measures can lead to a loss of family policy, but also educational objectives, in certain areas. I mean, in concrete terms, the departure of home travel aid, which affects students in rural areas. I believe, and I hope, Mr Minister, that you will agree with me, as soon as there is a financial room in the FLAF, we should quickly bring about a solution for this group of persons. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Another point that I would like to address is the family hard work, which is only worth 15 million schilling in the 1998 budget. I know that the funds for 1997 for 25 million schillings have only been used up by 12 million schillings, but I would also like to make these directives more and more unbureaucratic in order to help families who have temporarily become financially indebted. This would ensure more efficient and targeted use of the funds. However, I am also convinced that it is necessary to consider how we are rethinking the financial resources of the FLAF, so that we can make a change in the medium term, which also takes account of economic circumstances, for example a broadening of the fund's funding base, a departure from the contributions dependent on wages. Minister! I am pleased that you face this proposal openly – at least you have indicated this in the budget negotiations – that: You think he is worthy of discussion, and I also believe that it is positive that this proposal should also be adopted by the economy. Minister! However, I also look forward with interest to your written answers from the Committee on Budgets, which I agree to say here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e8724	Next word: Mrs Motter. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e8745	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Youth and Family chapter of the draft budget provides that more resources are available to the Family Advisory Offices in 1998 – an old demand from us liberals; we welcome these additional resources. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] What we cannot understand, however, is what these resources are used for. It is not clear to us that the family advisory services should be more and more concerned with the consultation of the sects and that in each federal state a separate advisory body should be set up exclusively for the purposes of sects. Apart from that, we believe that there is a sect consultation as you imagine it, Mr Federal Minister, both in terms of content and method, more than in dispute, and the idea of bringing sect victims to an advisory centre has already been recognized as pointless in England. After this knowledge, a documentation centre for new religious associations was set up to provide potential and active sect members with objective information material and information on risks and risks without social pressure. I think that would also be an incentive, Mr Minister, to deal with. But what it is about me is that money is to be invested that we need in more urgent cases to consult. Mrs. Family Spokesman of the ÖVP! Just as rosy as you are representing the family advisory services as they work, I don't see that! They could work if they had more resources. I think that must be said quite openly. We need resources because we know that cases of child abuse, violence in the family or problems in the separation of partners keep increasing the need for advice and care. Ladies and gentlemen! We know that only the annual number of abuses of children is estimated at 24,000. That is, every third girl and every tenth boy would have become victims of sexual abuse sometime in his childhood. I hope we are all aware that any help must be offered to the victims and to the perpetrators. Nevertheless, the advisory bodies must at present fight for their survival, as there are massive financial problems. Even today, we have to wait two weeks for a conversation and even one to two months for a treatment site. Minister! I therefore call on you to reconsider your failure to consult with the sects and to consider whether there are no more urgent problems in the field of advisory services. I would also like to talk about the situation of childcare. As you know from the 283 applications which have been submitted so far, the offer is particularly low for those under the age of three, namely in all the federal states, with an East-West gap being reported; in the west there are still fewer places to care. It is also interesting in this context that the grants granted go mainly to public kindergartens. Private kindergartens, day-mothers or day-fathers or other institutions are hardly supported. Ladies and gentlemen! As long as the partnership family work is not yet established by social policy – and we want rapid progress to be made here – we need childcare facilities that meet the absolute minimum requirements so that women can also pursue employment. In contrast to some other political groups here in the House, we Liberals acknowledge that women who want to work should also have the opportunity to do so and that the necessary framework conditions need to be created. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] However, it must be a matter of course that single parents who have to contribute to the necessary living will be able to choose from widened offers in the future. These include flexible care periods, day-and-night care and hourly care. In order to enable this to happen, it will be necessary for private initiatives to be promoted more and more in the future, because they bring up a lot of commitment and imagination in order to offer as flexible care places as possible. Mrs Mertel! I hope so. Their agreement to promote kindergartens not only as before, but also to take greater account of private initiatives. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, let me refer to the so-called childcare check. Mrs Haller! I am opposed to the "left campaign in the federal states". We have already expressed our own opinion on this, and I repeat here that we clearly reject this check. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haller.]] We shall therefore not accede to your motion for a resolution. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Minister! We are excited about the feasibility study you commissioned from the Institute of Family Research and are waiting for the result. Then you will certainly discuss it – for you did not want to talk about it so far – and hopefully also address counter-arguments. Another point is the free ride. I would like to make a clear statement or repeat an old demand of the Liberals: The budget for school leavers must be placed in the autonomous administration of schools, for in the sense of self-responsibilities, it is best to decide in schools how to organize the most cost-effective and timetables for school leavers. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] It is also necessary to act quickly on home aid for students in rural areas, as these pupils are severely disadvantaged. It is also unacceptable and therefore quick to remove the 10 percent self-maintainment of the parents in the school books. The current system of self retention is in three ways bad: It is socially unbalanced, it is complicated to administer and it offers no reason to save. Also, the planned introduction of bookshops in schools with the principle of maintaining the current system of schoolbook production cannot work. Workbooks and history and geography books, whose value is in actuality, are certainly not suitable for transmission. Paradox is also the case that books that have been bought by parents, even by their self-serving, should then go to the property of schools. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to address the most up-to-date issue of family policy, the recognition of the Constitutional Court on Family Taxation, very briefly today in this debate, since we had enough opportunity to deal with it in detail last week. We are primarily concerned with the redesign of family promotion, and I can only repeat: The focus of this redesign is on the child! There must be an environment in both financial and social terms where there are as many opportunities as possible for the best possible development. Ladies and gentlemen! Our family transfer model is a suitable concept for the restructuring of family support, and I appeal once again to the government groups to discuss our model in the course of the discussions on the implementation of the Constitutional Court's judgment! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Finally, I would like to expressly mention that the amendment tabled by Mr Mühlbachler and Mr Novotny, which seeks to remove 3 million schillings from the family compensation fund for the mother-child passport, will not give our consent. We are of the opinion that millions of totals should be spent on complex information campaigns, especially in areas where it is a matter of course that one should act on its own responsibility, and the mother-child passport examination should be regarded as a matter of course, especially as it does not cause any costs. We shall vote in favour of the Committee's statement on the increase in the daily allowance for operating aid, a kind of care allowance for self-employed women. However, I would like to stress that these women are still disadvantaged to women employed.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e8884	Mrs Rosemarie Bauer is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e8906	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The last budget debate on the subject of family was very emotional, and there was a fierce debate about it – which was pityd by the opposition parties – that it was not to the family billion, but only 600 million schillings were made available for the expansion of childcare facilities. I am therefore very surprised that this budget debate, except for Mr Haller, has not referred to it in committee or here and has questioned the use of this 600 million schilling. But one is populism and the other is the real interest in reality! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Main: I asked!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I was very interested in how this amount was used in my federal state. The country of Lower Austria has applied for 72.5 million schilling. In order to re-explain prejudices such as Mrs Motter's now saying that childcare facilities are missing and nothing is happening, I can tell you: 50 million schillings are provided in Lower Austria from these funds for the new construction of kindergartens, meaning 6 000 new kindergartens. On the argument with the public kindergartens: It flows a lot of money into actions of day mothers, not into the organization, but into training. We have also provided 20 million schilling for a completely new project on children with special problems: People are volunteered to accompany these children and to take care of the school, school difficulties, and vocational training. There are 743,000 S available for children’s caregivers. I have not yet mentioned the entire sum, but unfortunately I only have a very short speaking time. I believe it is important to note that, if you can use your know-how and, of course, the right semantics, it is very likely to achieve an efficient family promotion. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! What Coudenhove-Kalergi writes and is always said that according to statistics there are so many children and so there are so many places that are not present, not necessarily right! In Lower Austria, the rate of children visiting a kindergarten is already 98 percent. There are already very, very many three-year-old children in the kindergarten. Nevertheless, 50 percent of the care of the three-year-olds is also due to day-parents and father-in-laws. We use a lot of money in Lower Austria for this kind of care! With us there are almost 400 million Schilling funding for family aid! – This family assistance is nothing but what is theoretically and almost phantomically always spoken of here: the care check, socially staggered, next to the mother’s professional activity possible and, of course, socially staggered, which benefits socially weak families. It is likely that we will have reached the level of the karenz money by the year 2000 and can thus allow families to continue paying the karenz money until they enter the kindergarten. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Not to be forgotten are also the 30 Flying Nannies in Lower Austria. These are not yet available throughout Austria. These are dayparents who offer a special care that comes into the house, such as when the children are sick or the mother is sick. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haller.]] With these examples, I would like to confirm that what I said to the Federal Minister last week is important: We need a broad network of good and efficient offers. At the federal level we are the top, and the country of Lower Austria is also the top in this regard in its complementary family support. There too, Mrs Haller, the means of self-financing will be invested, and I believe that they will be used much better on the ground in this case than if they are generally spread widely. Where the family needs the means, she should get them!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e8961	Mr Oellinger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e8983	Mr President. Minister! - He's not here. [[Abg. May. Main: He's coming right now!]] I'm still trying to get up very slowly. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Madam President, Mr Bauer has now done quite a bit of work. But the pace at which she made her comments does not necessarily mean that the content is correct. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: Take a look at this in the federal states! You can check it out!]] Mrs Bauer! I'll start with the family compensation fund. We have already heard that this fund has a surplus of 2.2 billion this year, and this increases to over 9 billion Schilling by 1999. At the same time, however, debt must also be deducted. Federal Minister! You and I, and all those who sit in the committee, know that the debt could have been repaid before if you had not turned back to the feeder screws for the fund, so that the inflows from the federal budget, which were clearly regulated, flow slightly less. [[Abg. Haller: That's the budget trick number one!]] It is true, as I believe, that this is a short billion, and this could become even more so in 1998/99, depending on how revenue is developing in the area from which these inflows come. Well, or rather I should say: bad, because I do not think that this development of the policy of the family compensation fund is good: Over the last decades, the contribution has been reduced and a few changes have been made to the small parking screws, so the fund is less disincentive. In addition, as has already been noted in the debate, a number of changes have been made to the outflows from the budget, and there has again been the eternal dispute about the division between the social pot and the family pot, who pays what charges for the karenz money et cetera. Minister! Regardless of what I think we would have to ask a few questions in this context, for example: What are the priorities of family policy here in this country if it is to be implemented at the federal level? – The answer, Mr Minister, has been your fault in the past debates! You can't answer that either. They continue the family policy of the ÖVP according to the motto "a great deal of incense, little content" by explaining to all of us that the family needs to be raised up again in heaven, but at the same time actually pursue a policy in which it is said: less family aid, the abolition of birth aid and so on. And then, Mr Minister, together with your EIA members, you complain of the state of family policy, of how terrible and horrendous it is, and demand that we finally do more for the families. Mrs Bauer is very proud that the country of Lower Austria is doing such excellent family work. – I wonder, in what area? I do not see it as the task of a federal state to compensate, for example, the country of Lower Austria, for the loss of family support through a grant for family aid. This is not the task of a country, but it is the task of the federal government to provide family aid in such a way that it has a corresponding level, which is also in line with our common political principles. If the country of Lower Austria believes it is necessary to grant a grant of 100 S for family aid, then that is wrong! This is the country of Lower Austria – with leave – very, very little! That's the task of the federal government! The country of Lower Austria, like all other federal states, has the task of promoting the expansion of childcare facilities. Mrs Bauer is not here at the moment, but I would like to make a comment to her address: I would like her to explain more precisely the figures she has mentioned to us. Because there are also other answers: For example, the Minister of Finance says that these 600 million children's playgrounds are created throughout Austria. It would be surprising for me that there are only 6,000 places in Lower Austria. I would like to know this a little more precisely! I also do not believe that the country of Lower Austria, although some of it has happened there, is absolutely exemplary, for example as regards infants and infants up to 3 years old. I also know a lot about the country of Lower Austria, and there are very large deficits there too. I also knew more about the 98 percent expansion of the childcare facilities that the country of Lower Austria wanted to operate. It is obviously only the facilities for the ten-year-olds, for I do not think that Lower Austria is already that far in the three- to six-year-olds. – If that were the case, we would no longer need to talk about Lower Austria. But there are still all the other federal states: Vienna may be an exception, but there are also deficits visible here, and especially in the EIA countries one still refuses to expand the childcare facilities in such a way that they can be operated all day long. I am particularly concerned about the country of Vorarlberg and the country of Tyrol. Ladies and gentlemen! I am now at the central point of family policy in the federal states: Childcare facilities need to be expanded, and there has been a long-standing change between the federal government and the countries, whether this is done or not. There are and have been attempts to implement the financial compensation or the kindergarten billions, which are then reduced to 600 million, and there are statements by the federal politicians. Recently, the Minister for Women said that this is actually the responsibility of the countries. The problem is, ladies and gentlemen, that the people concerned remain on the road, especially the women who need these care facilities. A total of 140 000 care places are missing in Austria. You should all give an answer here in the House and not just practice in the swirling of incense! [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If you stop giving incense in family policy, you will also notice that there is something more behind the care checks than just incense. I am convinced that this conservative approach to family policy – and you, Mr Minister, did not deny that – if it might be implemented, and we once formulated a careful request to you in this direction, would mean that the countries, the municipalities, would have to reduce their support for childcare facilities which you are currently providing, and that prices for childcare facilities would rise by the lower subsidies by the state or by the countries or communities. The people concerned would be the poorer families, who are still in this concept in the same way as they are in general with the ÖVP family policy. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: Distance yourself from these prejudices! They take no note at all!]] Mrs Bauer! Let me give you the answer to this question or this presumption by myself to someone else! In any event, the Minister for Family Affairs was unable to dissociate this acceptance from us at the present hour, but he was very likely to think that subsidies might have to be withdrawn. – Child care check is a conservative answer to the problems of childcare that are addressed against women, and therefore we will not agree to such a solution because it is not a progress, but that women should be brought back to their homes and to their flocks. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] So I'm on the next question, family taxation: In a reply to Mr Kostelka's statements in a "standard" article, Mr Khol asked the rhetorical question: Is every child worth the same tax value to the state? – Mr Khol, Member of the Commission. They know as well as I do that the Constitutional Court did not answer that each child should be equal in tax terms, but that the Constitutional Court clearly states: Whoever has to make a higher effort for children, because he belongs to a higher level of income, must also receive more tax compensation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rosemarie Bauer.]] Of course! If you do not know, you have not read this judgment, Mrs Bauer! That is the answer of the Constitutional Court. However, the problem is not the recognition of the Constitutional Court, but the lack of maintenance law in this area. For a long time, this has been the case as a judge, in which the social answers have already been given. According to this right of maintenance, it is clear that there is more funding for high-income children first and, secondly, more support for older children than for younger ones. As a result, a good part of the Austrians, who are young, are excluded from these tax incentives, because a good part of the young Austrians are employed at 15, 16 or 17 years of age and do not have the opportunity to obtain the tax allowance until 27. To enjoy a lifetime. Mr Khol! That is why it must also be clear to you that it would be necessary to provide quite different answers to these questions. Therefore you refuse the answer to this question or can only ask the rhetorical question you have asked in the "standard": Is each child worth the same tax value? But you cannot answer that, otherwise you would have to say honestly: We want each child not to be equal in tax terms because we want to comply with the Constitutional Court's knowledge in the proposed form. But you know exactly that you cannot give this answer to the public, and you may, because you would then have to take up a public debate, in which you will probably not get out very well! You wouldn't get out as well as if you were just asking a rhetorical question. For there is no question of equality for you, which you neither mean nor intend. And because you know that, you only ask rhetorical questions and try to reach a compromise that in no way – this also applies to your model, Mr. Minister! – is suitable for this and cannot also be suitable to comply with the Constitutional Court's knowledge! If you do not change anything, you can reach the maximum that a new model with deposits and family allowances will be reintroduced here to Parliament, which will be sued again in two or three years' time. You'd have to risk that. That's not enough, that's not an honest and clean answer! We need a new right of maintenance. Taxation should be used for vertical redistribution. I stand to do so – and it was also said by everyone here in this House: The children should be of equal value to the state, but not tax!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e9087	Mr Dr. Doppelmüller has also been reported on the floor. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e9108	Mr President. Minister for the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. High house! I now take the opportunity, as it were, to interrupt the family block and return to the environment. I have already had the opportunity to deal with one of the ministers for the environment in the agriculture chapter, and I am delighted to be able to do so in part with the Minister for the Environment. I have to comment positively: The capacity of our Minister for the Environment is remarkable: He is the Minister for the Environment, the Minister for the Environment, the Minister for the Environment, the Chief Negotiator of the ÖVP, and it is nevertheless clear that we have already achieved some considerable success in environmental policy during the current legislative period. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: He's just a good man! Thank you for the praise!]] This also applies, of course, to the Minister for Environment, Mr Molterer, whom I mentioned before, because there has also been a great deal of progress in the area of water law. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: That was a big throw!]] But also in the field of Minister Bartenstein, the novelle on the Environmental Promotion Act, the new Immissions Protection Act and the preparation of the National Environmental Plan are quite tangible successes. Another Minister for the Environment, Minister Farnleitner, has also provided us with a new commercial law novel at least half-way. Unfortunately, I have only relatively little time and therefore I would like to address only a few key points from the point of view of the Social Democrats, which are also important to us in future work. There will be an innovation in waste management. The present proposal is currently in preparation or review. We're going to be very strong here. In particular, we are concerned with the cost-effectiveness of waste management and with the reform of the ARA system. Federal Minister! They have also promised that in autumn and after a year we will get a report on how the new packaging regulation has developed and takes effect. We're already excited! We are committed to providing sufficient thermal treatment facilities. We must be very careful, however, because I have some problems in this regard. I find that for instance a Dutch capital of Vienna, at dumping prices, wants to take over into its landfill. We must be very careful that we can actually comply with the 2004 date. I also have problems with construction protection in connection with the renewal of mountain rights. Now I am addressing my colleague from Upper Austria directly. In this area, we should step up our efforts to use actually recycled demolition material and bout. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: That's what we're doing!]] At present, the construction project is only 5 percent, colleague Fekter! This should be called for directly, especially in the public sector, because we should leave the good gravel in the ground! We also have considerable opportunities in agriculture to win excellent gravel through the so-called land exchange. There are interesting developments in Lower Austria. We could talk about that once. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Agricultural by-products!]] Yes, that can be a farming industry! There is still a lot to be done in this area. We also have problems with car disposal. There are voluntary agreements in this area, and they are always worrying. Of 195,000 old cars, only 105 000 were recycled. I believe that we also have problems in the field of waste management, which is a favorite topic of Mr Schweitzer. But he's not quite wrong. There is also a need for more control in the collection of the old load recovery contributions. A second point, which is very important to us, concerns the problem of drinking water and groundwater protection. I have been able to highlight these briefly today in the debate on agriculture. For us no less important – that has already been said by Mr Brix today – is the Federal Environment Agency. Minister! I think we still have a few different views in this area. I'm not quite sure: They have already argued in this direction today that control and credibility should be preserved absolutely. If this is your opinion, we will certainly be able to reach a very positive agreement. But we'll be very careful. – As far as the Federal Environment Agency, which we will certainly have to deal with, is concerned. Environmental professions are an important key point, in addition to the problems of chlorine chemistry and PVC and, of course, international environmental policy, especially in connection with Kyoto. I believe that in this area we can be more united not only in Kyoto, but also in the context of the EU, when we have the presidency. Federal Minister! In this sense, of course, we Socialists agree with this budget and wish you much success for Kyoto. We will, however, take a very critical look at your further work in the environmental field, in particular in the Federal Environment Agency.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e9192	The next speech is by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann before. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e9210	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I shall refer to the budget for the eco-funds which will be allocated between the environment and agriculture. Federal Minister! They have said that in the field of eco electricity, the objective is to increase the share of electric energy from 1 to 3 per cent. This is certainly a desirable goal. In total, however, I believe that efforts to use renewable energy to the same extent, to increase its share, to be very tough and very sluggish, not to say that they are almost continuously experiencing a disability, as is the case with the reorganisation of the E-E-Economics mentioned by you or with the General Agreement. This general agreement, as I mean, is not a particularly successful child. I have told your colleague Mr Farnleitner that if these are the measures in the sense of renewable energy, he will eventually be associated with the reorganisation of the e-business, which does not take place which is left to itself, nor will he enter history as the graves of renewable energy. I really believe, Minister, that there is a huge opportunity to make thousands of jobs and additional jobs useful, combined with a reduction in the import of fossil fuels, combined with a reduction in foreign dependence, which we have through this import. We must insist on an increased use of domestic renewable energy sources. Renewable energy sources, Mr. Federal Minister, are known to be domestic, local energy sources and would have a positive impact on the labour market, in particular in rural areas, provided that they are implemented accordingly. Federal Minister! As regards the Climate Alliance, the Toronto objective, CO2 emissions, there is a very clearly defined objective of achieving a reduction of 20 percent in CO2 by 2005 – with the base value of 1988. If we follow the actual development, it can be seen that the value which has increased after 1988 is about 60 million tonnes of CO2 and that the objective has not yet been achieved and that the direction is not recognizable. At least one does not move to this goal, but away from that goal. There are minor annual fluctuations. Although we are approaching the objective in time but certainly not in ecological terms. Federal Minister! I would like to draw your attention to a symposium that took place about two weeks ago, a symposium on renewable energy, in which Professor Schneider also presented one of his studies, to which Mr Molterer and Mrs Sozialminister Hostasch were present. The subtitles were: Should energy from wood and sun bring 50 000 new jobs and solve the CO2 problem? One should take a closer look at this study by Professor Schneider. It speaks of some 42 000 jobs which would be created in addition in the first year following the adoption of the corresponding measures, and it speaks of 51 000 jobs in the seventh year when this programme is implemented. It is important to note that this will result in a savings, a reduction in CO2 emissions of 1.4 million tonnes in the first year and about 6.8 million tonnes of CO2 in the seventh year. If I compare this value with our current emissions, Mr Federal Minister, I note that this would be more than 10 percent of the current annual CO2 emissions. We know, Minister of State, that there are costs for these CO2 emissions. There are different approaches. Hiezu there are studies, for example one of the Fraunhofer Institutes, xxx coll.BE which counts an emitted tonne of CO2 with costs of around 6,000 S. I find a lot of positive things in Professor Schneider's study, but unfortunately I had to say to God that, in order to give the kick, the start-kick, he comes up with this impulse, to implement this program that he has presented, to speak on a steering charge that should amount to 125 S per tonne of CO2. At least that would be 7.5 billion schilling revenue annually. However, in his study he has not noticed that the tonne CO2, if it is not emitted, also saves costs. If you now take these 6,000 s per tonne of CO2 from the Fraunhofer Institute, then it is in the first year at least 8.4 billion schilling, and in the seventh year it would be 40.8 billion schilling. We liberals reject this steering charge, which, in turn, would only be an additional burden on the citizen, but believe that in this area, as Professor Schneider pointed out, a lot of jobs would be created. In this panel discussion, Mrs Social Minister Hostasch referred to what measures she intends to take within the government, which initiatives she will take, and she also expressed one, as I believe, threat. It has said that it will inform the working group on tax reform, which is to become effective in the year 2000. I think this is indeed a threat, because the job situation and the number of unemployed people are required to act today and now, and not to make a shift by the year 2000 and to do nothing at all. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We now have the unemployed, and there is a growing trend here. I therefore allow myself to make the following request, Mr Federal Minister: [[Quoted print version removed]] Federal Minister! I can ask you to become active here and not to wait for an equivalent within the EU or an international equation. Even becoming an initiative is the exchange rate, especially if it is possible to save costs and create additional jobs and get a little closer to the Toronto target.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e9297	The motion for a resolution which has just been read was properly tabled, duly supported and is therefore under negotiation. The next speech is by Mr Schuster. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e9322	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Every state, every government, does well to set priorities. This Austrian Federal Government, with it the Federal Minister for Youth and Family, has set priorities, and for this I am grateful to you, Mr Federal Minister. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In order for families to be able to fulfil the socially indispensable tasks, more than ever, there is a need for a value-oriented social policy that puts human, ideal and social values in the foreground. We must therefore create framework conditions that allow every woman and every man to unite work and family without affecting the children. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Whatever the future may bring, despite fax devices and Internet connections in our apartments, despite mobile phones in our briefcases, we need more solidarity for the morning and the day after tomorrow than ever for our families. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The result of the Constitutional Court's examination is available to us, which has been quoted several times today and which calls on the Federal Government to draw up a model for this purpose by next year. – The Federal Government will do so in the sense of the families. I would like to thank you now, Mr Federal Minister, for having put forward a proposal to the public in the run-up to this discussion, namely the tax-free minimum for children of at least 4 800 p. We know, however, that despite a good family policy, poverty in Austria has not become less, especially among the multi-child families. Family policy must therefore achieve that people are not relatively impoverished because of the fact that they live family life. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Federal Minister! I now come to my request, which I would like to raise today in this budget debate: From my point of view, Austria needs a family compatibility check. It is necessary to introduce a family impact assessment in the area of family policy, but not as in environmental law, where the environmental impact assessment becomes a prevention test, but in the sense of a future-oriented family policy, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In summary, I would like to inform you of four guidelines for an efficient family policy for next year and perhaps for the next few years. First: Family policy must enable, protect and promote family life, its importance in a free democratic society. Secondly, We in politics, all of us sitting here, must allow... [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: Who is a family?]] Mrs. Colleague! Their call for call gives me the opportunity to define family in this way, and I recognize this definition. An Upper Austrian writes: Before the birthday of the little daughter, a working couple went to a toy store and explained to the seller: We're away from home all day, we need something that pleases the little one, she's busy for a long time, and she takes the feeling of being alone. - I'm sorry, the salesman smiled, parents we don't lead. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Federal Minister! The third guideline refers to the work of husband and wife for the family, which must be recognised as an important social and economic contribution to the Community and state. Fourth: The women must be guaranteed, under the same conditions, the practical possibility of access to all levels of training and political and cultural life. High house! Federal Minister! I would like to thank you for your great agility in the area of family policy, but I would also like to thank your employees, who manage the ministry well, so that we can make the most of family policy.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e9396	Mrs Mag. Mag. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Moser. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I would like to point out to you that the request for a deadline comes at 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e9418	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to make a specific contribution to the family impact assessment in the form of a motion for a resolution. My colleague, Mr Oellinger, highlighted the need for child care, and I would like to make the following point: [[Quoted print version removed]] Children are our future, you say. The future, however, is also in a healthy environment, you say in particular, Mr Minister, on an international parquet. If you face these predictions, these wishes, these visions, these demands, these lip confessions, then you come to a very bipolar assessment. On the one hand, Austria is regarded as a model country – you present it so – and on the other hand, every observer of the Austrian environmental policy notes that we are currently experiencing a standstill, if not even a decline. Two statements – the sample on the example: Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Go to the street, visit shopping centres or go shopping. In these two everyday activities alone, you will be able to find out whether we are a model country or whether we are on the spot and there is not even a decline. Very concrete: Go on the road! They will notice that there is more traffic. You know: More traffic means more pollutants. The forecasts for the year 2010 are terrifying. The German Institute for Economic Research has found that in 2010 we will have 100 percent more freight transport, 25 percent more vehicles and 21 percent more kilometers. This means that we will have massive increases in nitrogen oxides, CO2. – These are gases, which are very likely to affect our Earth atmosphere, our climate and which, above all, are very questionable about the future of our children. They know that the main issuer is traffic with the nitrogen oxides. You also know that CO2 emissions account for 30 per cent of transport, and you know that although we feel obliged to reduce our emissions, we have an above-average increase in emissions in the European comparison, i.e. 1.5 per cent. It's the same thing that Most of this is due to traffic, and it is precisely the traffic that always counter-carries air reconditioning in the field of nitrogen oxides and CO2. The traffic behaviour of the people is also being counter-cared. Due to the lack of laws on spatial planning and the lack of local funding, the hundreds of thousands of people in Austria are driven away from the environmentally compatible modes of transport to the passenger car year after year, otherwise they will no longer be able to meet their daily needs. Year after year, hundreds of thousands of people in Austria are on the wrong track, in a train that can lead to a climate disaster that will result in a climate disaster. This is a very good place for taxing in the country itself and not only internationally. – I now come back to my example: Go on the road and check the result of your environmental policy! [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein.]] The second example concerns shopping. Look into the shelves, you're in front of a flood of packaging. What was once offered in the glass is now mostly offered in PET. Here we have rapid increase rates of up to 20 percent. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: Is that worse?]] The problem is that very few PET shares are recycled. That's the problem. Its advantage is that it is easy, but the restraints increase. Although beer still exists primarily in the bottle, the aludos make the bottle pretty much body. We have seen an increase in the range of aluminium, and this is very worrying in terms of the environment. The background is: You yourself and your predecessor have also worked on the packaging regulation. The aim was to avoid burdening producers, thereby forcing the changeover. The load was carried out at a height, the conversion to the opposite direction. We now have more alu, that is, the packaging regulation has gone into the bins in this area. The steering effect was completely counterproductive. – Homemade counterproductive, I would like to stress! Finally, a small note: The dilemma of old-age recovery funds has already been addressed by my colleague, Langthaler. As long as you allow the amount for the contribution of the landfills in the old load fund to be fixed by the BH in agreement with the landfill operators, your deposits will not be filled. They didn't fill up either! They are below the expectations of 50 percent. You took 50 percent less than you had. [[Federal Minister Dr Bartenstein: That is not true, Mrs Colleague!]] – This has been said to me by experts! Since the time is running and the treatment of the deadline request is so to speak, I would like to briefly highlight a scenario which is, unfortunately, not only in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e9489	Mrs. Colleague! Time is getting a little short now. It's 3:00.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e9504	This scenario is the reality in New Zealand. [[The speaker keeps an image up to date.]] On this picture you can see no milka cows, but cows that can only feed on the meadow because they wear a plastic protection against ozone. I ask you: Is this the vision for the Austrian tourist country? - They're heading for it.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e9540	The motion for a resolution previously read is properly tabled, duly supported and is under negotiation. I am now interrupting the negotiations on the XIII Consultative Group on the implementation of a short debate. Short debate on a deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e9565	This debate concerns the request of Mr Petrovic and Mr Comrades, the Constitutional Committee for the Reporting of People's Desire to create a Federal Animal Protection Act, a period of until 9. In December 1997, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and After the end of this debate, the vote on the motion for a resolution will take place. We are now going into this debate. According to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, speaking time per speaker shall be 5 minutes, except for first speakers: 10 minutes. The applicant, Dr Petrovic, is now the first speaker to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e9599	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, it is not gratifying that, in the context of this budget debate, a number of important concerns must be raised by means of deadlines, although it would be a matter of course, in my view and also in the Austrian legal order, that these materials should be treated with emphasis. But it is not only a matter of course for you, but it has become so commonplace with those materials that are important to the people to whom the people have started and successfully completed excessive popular desires that you no longer see the citizens. Hundreds of thousands of people can stand up for an important concern, there can also be deadlines of half a year or a year, but these materials do not come to a decision, and that seems no longer to affect the coalition parties. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] I therefore propose that the Constitutional Committee have a time limit of 9. to report on the matter of a uniform animal welfare law throughout the country. – As you know, this was the central point of successful animal protection popular desire. It is to be said that four parties support this matter in principle – and nothing happens anyway. In the spring of 1996, this popular desire, borne and financed by private individuals, took place. And I believe, at least, that these citizens, who are even more interested in it, will have a lot more to do with it every day, are entitled to make a decision in this House. I call on the Socialist Group, above all, to support this in principle, because it has itself put in a draft law on this matter, to ensure that it is finally voted on. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We are already used to the opposition that our applications to the long-term bank are being pushed or shubbled. To do this, you can say: Well, these parties do not represent the majority in this country. But in this case the population itself has initiated something. And the obstacle of direct democracy is high enough in Austria. It is not easy to create 100 000 signatures. The popular desire for animal protection has even received much more signatures, and if we repeat it today, I do not doubt that the success would be even greater, because anger and disappointment are growing in the population. What's happened since then? – The unfair system of agricultural support, head premiums, is progressing. Nothing happened in terms of consumer protection. We don't have a binding declaration. This is also the case with the Minister for the Environment, but he prefers not to listen to this debate. There is no mention of a federal uniform scheme – with strict minimum standards for the protection of animals – far and wide. Every day – these incidents are also reported to you – we hear about scandalous events. These are still available in the huge farm-animal area, but also – and ÖVP always talks about it – in pet farming and in animal trafficking. There are still terrible conditions in non-controlled farms. – You only think of the terrible fur breeding, the circuses and the showrooms, where wild animals are infested under pitiful conditions. When it comes to imposing penalties, the same thing happens in Austria: In the moment when, after many advances in the animal welfare movement, any authority – for example, because there is an active animal protection officer, a animal protection worker – finally becomes active after many advances, the company or this circus, this migration circus moves its seat, its location to the nearest federal state, and the carousel starts from anew. The investigations of the authority in the first federal state are going empty because no one is there anymore, and in the second federal state all this – the work of conviction, the statement of facts, the involvement of experts and so on – has to start again. In reality, this is a matter in which the government structurally and institutionally ensures that animal welfare is not feasible in Austria. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Especially in the light of today's debate, which we had in the budget chapter on agriculture, it is double regrettable, with what double vision the EIA is working on. That's really remarkable! In Austria, with a legal Fleckerlöppiech, which has very, very large differences between the federal states, one ensures that matter is incomprehensible, but at international level, in the EU field, one wants to monopolize the decisions – in addition to the agricultural authorities, in the agricultural lobby. – Animal protection from the meat carcass! That's obvious. Your aspect of animal welfare. The animal is considered to be a commodity, the marketing is in the foreground and not the living being, the fellow animal. And this is just for a party that once claimed to be a Christian, a bottomless scandal! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: They now let the whales patent!]] In addition, the chairman of the subcommittee on genetic engineering, Mrs Rauch-Kallat, now knows before the Committee has come to an end in its deliberations that it is for the patenting of living beings. That's like a mosaic stone on the other. All advances – smaller, larger – in terms of animal protection are blocked by you. They make the wall for a now brutal and no longer compassionate lobby for the exploitation of animals. But you also know very well – and you go along with it – that animals lose the last respect, the last value as creatures, and then you appear as patent numbers in a European patent register. – Far from it has brought a Christian-social party! I'm really wondering: How long will it take the majority in this House to go before it finally says: We want to discuss this matter at least!? – Then you can still decide whether to vote with a yes or no. But I'm looking for you: Please agree with this deadline and allow this matter to be after a year and a half – a popular desire! – is finally concluded and negotiated here in this House!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e9667	The speaking times of the other Members in this debate are 5 minutes. Mrs Ludmilla Perfuss. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e9691	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I can agree with my predecessor in almost every point, only in one, and if she says that the coalition is abandoning the citizens with their concerns. [[Abg. Wabl: Then who?]] We have done a great deal in terms of animal welfare. I would now like to list some activities in this debate. But before I start, I want to make some personal comments. I am in myself a very positive person – I believe it is also noted – and I thought, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, that you have an interest in animal welfare, since you have a Christian world view – which the colleague of the Greens has also pointed out. But the position of your Federal Minister Molterer in Brussels, where he intervened for a shift of competence in the British Presidency,... [[Abg. Smoking Callat: Don't lie to better knowledge!]] That's not a lie! I have this information very well. [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: order call!]] [[Further calls to the Greens.]] It is true what the Green Group has written in the issue: Molterer wants to move animal welfare into the agricultural sector. That's completely absurd! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That would be just as much, Mrs. Colleague, you were a teacher, as if the students themselves could or should give themselves the grades! Dear ladies and gentlemen! In order to progress on matters: It is indeed a long way that this Federal Animal Protection Act has. I know that a requirement for a politician is that one should remain very vehement in one thing and that one should also take a longer path and not depart from it. I should like to remind you once again, especially in view of the fact that we will be watching and also looking very closely, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, what you will then say: Successful animal welfare in the spring of 1996 – I am just saying that – the treatment of popular desire in the Constitutional Committee in July. There has then been a public hearing on the subject of animal welfare on our farm or on our clubman Dr. Kostelka, in which the majority of the experts and the majority in this House have advocated a federal animal welfare law. Professor Festetics and other prominent animal protectionists, including organic farmers, are trying all the time to convince you that a federal animal welfare law is in the sense of animal welfare! The 460 000 signatures of the Austrians have also spoken a clear language. What happened in this house? . There have already been two subcommittees of the Constitutional Committee in which the requests have been discussed, and our very comprehensive request has been confirmed on both sides that it is a good basis for discussion. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mr. Klubobmann Khol! You know it very well: Your own voters write to you personally and say: Please, agree, otherwise we'll leave the ÖVP! - You should not overlook that. This is, I mean, the last signal that can give one of the voters. So vote Please! You have the opportunity to do so. Also the Austrian Federal Chamber of Veterinarians – this one is not red! – the ÖVP has tried to convince of the need for uniform national animal protection. Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! We have tried everything, and in order to maintain a constructive dialogue, there have been internal discussions, work talks, in which – I just want to say this by now – the date-setting has been very popular and quite difficult. There has been a mutual exchange of views. We have incorporated in our request, which is very comprehensive, the opinions of the experts. The last welcome from our side to our coalition partner, whom we would like to meet seriously, was the agreement to convene a meeting in January next year, with the EIA proposing that the countries present solutions. I hope that this is not a delaying tactic. In conclusion: We cannot accept this request for a deadline insofar as we extend the deadline. I firmly believe that there will be this debate in January, which the Greens are already calling for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e9771	The next speaker is Mrs Rauch-Kallat. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e9792	Mr President. High house! Let me briefly make a correct statement at the beginning of my remarks, as there are no actual corrections now. Mr Molterer, President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his excellent report. I can show you that. [[Abg. Wabl: (keeping a paper in height) What is that?]] [[Further calls to the Greens.]] This is a misinformation from Mrs. Dr. Prayersroither, who was already correct two days ago about the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, was also discussed directly with Mrs. Dr. Prayersroither and was also recommended to contact the Ministry concerned directly in the event of such information. [[Abg. Wabl: A misinformation?- Oh, my God!]] It is therefore incredible that the Green Group speaks through press releases of fraud and the like – in the knowledge of the actual facts! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Wabl: You said Mrs Perfuss is lying! You said Mrs Perfuss lied!]] I give you the opinion of the Ministry of Agriculture to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which took place two days ago in direct debate. But let me come briefly to your request for deadlines. [[Abg. Wabl: Where is it written that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has erred? Where's that in writing? The Depesche of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs?]] Dr. Prayersroither was wrong! This was clarified very clearly with Mrs. Dr. Prayersroither. You're welcome to call. [[Abg. Wabl: Where's the doctor?]] But now let me come to your request for a deadline. [[Abg. Wabl: Here is an authentic fax from Brussels to the foreign office!]] I should now like to say that I cannot defend the impression that it is far more important for some Members here in the House or some political groups where there is a situation of competence than for the fact that animals actually do, and whether the animals also benefit from the protection you wish. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the Greens]] [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: You don't believe that!]] - Yes, I believe so! I should like to draw your attention to the fact that those who have so far only required federal competence have not yet contributed to the fact that something has actually been improved. Those who have contributed to this were the Austrian federal states, for example, which have established a single national regime in farm animal husbandry in hard negotiations and very successful negotiations, which is exemplary for Europe and which we can rightly be proud of. [[Abg. Wabl: This is indescribable! Arrogance comes before the case!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It has also been shown in the expert hearings that the discussions conducted by the experts have not been conducted at all in the field of farm animals but very well in other areas: in pet farming, in animal transport, for example, a federal law. In view of the fact that Mrs Parfuss has said that we are concerned with federal competence, I must say: Here we have an animal welfare law that is in federal competence. All television shows that show dramatic pictures that are terrible and that we feel the same as you – you won't believe us, but it's like that – concern the area of animal transport. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: All federal competence!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wabl.]] That's not what the federal competence has done at all. On the contrary, ladies and gentlemen! I am surprised that, for example, animal transport of dogs not regulated in Austria is referred to Brussels by the Federal Chancellery, the Ministry of Consumer Protection to the Upper Austrian Government, and that this is not regulated in Austria. In his draft for a uniform Federal Animal Protection Act, Mr Kostelka, asked – to read in your request, ladies and gentlemen from SPÖ – that the competence in relation to dog transport be transferred at national level. That's what I'm asking myself: Is he dissatisfied with what his Federal Minister is doing to transport animals? Where's the credibility? [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Yes, he is! Kostelka is very dissatisfied with One!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I can say the following to your request for a deadline: As far as animal welfare law is concerned, we have been able, as a result of the negotiations in the Committee, to convince the federal states of the need for a uniform federal regime. In June of this year, they set up a working group to draw up a uniform draft for an Article 15a Convention on Animal Protection in all areas which have not yet been regulated on a national basis. In the meantime, this working group has done several times. She's in charge until 31. ==References====External links== It's going to live up to this date. We have also sent this to the coalition partner and have said: It is useful to wait for the results of this working group and then to continue to consult the Committee on Animal Health. In other words, I believe that the Heads of State or Government and the Conference of State would feel too confused. I should like to ask you to work together on a positive regulation in the sense of animals and not insist on mere shifts of competence.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e9992	The next speaker was Mr Salzl. He's got the floor. – The vote will be in 12 to 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e10013	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! For years now, we have been pointing out the nine different national laws, often with very poor regulations on the protection of animals. This constantly opens the door and gate to animal diseases and abuses, and also makes the control and execution of animal welfare much more difficult. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Dolinschek.]] We liberals have therefore also strongly supported the popular desire for animal protection, as it covers the essential points precisely with our free animal protection concept, which was already developed about four years ago. At the time, this animal welfare concept called for the anchoring of animal welfare in the Constitution, a federal animal welfare law and the creation of its own animal husbandry and the promotion of animal welfare also through public means. The implementation of these measures Unfortunately, however, targets have failed to date with regard to the resistance of the government parties, particularly the EIA, mainly with regard to agricultural farming. To date, the EIA does not want to understand that the problems must first be solved at national level and cannot be postponed to the EU. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Therefore, according to experts, the assessment and classification of farm animals according to the animal justice index – which is a compensation model in which different forms of farming can be offset against each other – would be far more useful than the conversion to the Directives of Article 15a of the Treaty, with, of course, as in Switzerland, transitional aid and conversion aid. The fact that within agriculture there is actually a willingness to make this change shows that more than 23 000 organic holdings have been using this TGI as a basis for animal welfare for years. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I am therefore incomprehensible that the ÖVP still maintains its opposition to a federal animal welfare law and ignores the wishes of 23 000 organic holdings, but also the opinions of experts in this hearing. The only agricultural experts who have opposed a federal animal welfare law were only the chamber officials of the ÖVP. All others have voted in favour of a federal animal welfare law. However, I do not understand the SPÖ's attitude, which, with the help of the other three parties, could easily implement this federal animal welfare law, but it obviously shifts from coalition grounds to the long bank and drags it into the subcommittee. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Perfuss.]] – Ladies and gentlemen! I have here a press release by your clubman Kostelka, in which he says this inextricably, and he points out that the four political groups could make a decision, but the SPÖ, as it is literally said, could not help a majority because of the work agreement with the ÖVP against the will of the coalition partner in the National Council. Without the ÖVP, there would therefore be no uniform animal welfare law, it is here. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! It is not easy to do so, especially since one of the objectives was also a federal animal welfare law in the Convention of Labour of these government parties. Now, at once, it seems as if no agreements had been reached at all. Ladies and gentlemen! But something must happen not only at national level: Of course, at EU level, the unsatisfying rules need to be resolved as quickly as possible, especially in the field of animal transport. The low importance of animal welfare in the EU has recently been demonstrated by Commissioner Fischler, with his desire to abolish the Austrian animal transport law. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! This claim clearly shows that only economic interests in the EU are involved. I am therefore very pleased with the clear words of the duly liberal Salzburg Councillor Thaller, whom he has taken in this context.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e10070	Please put the final sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e10086	Mr President. This indicates that the animal transport law is not to be eliminated but needs to be strengthened. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In this sense, we liberals will continue to use full force in the future to improve animal welfare, both at national and international level and, above all, in the field of animal transport.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e10116	The next speaker is Mrs Klara Motter. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e10140	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I too welcome the fact that today we are once again talking about animal welfare. It should be known to all of you that we Liberals have long been using vehemently for a federal animal welfare law. Since then, two legislative periods have been discussed in order to increase the competence in the field of animal welfare at national level. As we know, there is a two-thirds majority here in the house, which stands for a federal animal welfare law. Unfortunately, I cannot acquit both parties of government from the responsibility for this totally unsustainable state that nothing has been done so far. [[Abg. Perfuss: That's not true!]] – I will prove it to you, Mrs Perfuss! What has not already been tried by the ÖVP to obtain an absolution to this important demand of the door guards. There were promises like: It will be used to protect animals in the EU! Ladies and gentlemen! And what happened? – An insignificant protocol as an annex to the Amsterdam Treaty, which explicitly takes into account the "cultural characteristics" of the countries. This means that there is still the bullfight in Spain, and it remains allowed. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: subsidized!]] subsidized, yes. Mrs Flemming said that she was in the European Parliament for the abolition of subsidies for live transport and for greater controls in connection with the Herod premium and - I do not know what else - for the abolition of subsidies. Nothing's happened! The ÖVP does not make the decisive step in the EU Council either by Minister Molterer, nor is it with Commissioner Fischler in the Commission. As far as a federal animal welfare law itself is concerned, all of this can only be described as eye-removing. I would like to appeal again to the ÖVP. Especially today and just now, Mrs Rauch-Kallat has provided the proof of how she wants to get out of the affair. Mrs. Rauch-Kallat! There is no confusion as to what has happened in the office: We have clear evidence in our hands. There is a fax from Brussels, and here it is black on white. So please take note of this! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] [[Abg. Wabl: Black on white!]] On the completely inadequate Article 15a agreement with the agricultural countries, the EIA also wants to provide for an equally poor one, namely the agreement on pet farming. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! Let us take the first step and create a federal uniform law for pet farming if the so-called livestock farming has to be ruled out for the time being! Mrs Parfuss! I can't release the SPÖ and also you out of responsibility. It is not clear to me – and this is simply to be said clearly – that they are putting coalition discipline before animal welfare, that it is more important for them to adopt a requested animal welfare law, as you have just said. Coalition fidelity is all about you. It is true, Mrs Perfuss, that we had committees. You have submitted your applications. They are fighting there for a federal animal welfare law, but be honest: We're at the hour zero. Nothing happened! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] We need a federal animal welfare law. Ladies and gentlemen, we know the results of the held hearings here in the house. We know about the demands of university professors and the President of the Veterinary Chamber, and we know that there are still serious, animal-disregarding differences in animal husbandry in the individual Länder. Not least – that has already been said repeatedly – for a year and a half, there has been a popular desire, signed by 460,000 Austrians, here in the house. Ladies and gentlemen! Let us therefore say goodbye to a misinterpreted federalism and say goodbye to the small-cared idea of political officials in the federal states! – We Liberals agree to this deadline.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e10222	Mr Andreas Wabl. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e10247	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Estimated colleague smoke-callat! I understand that it is unpleasant for you if Mrs Parfuss to present to you this delegation from the Vienna Foreign Office, which has been sent from Brussels, which clearly shows that this shift of competence has come about on the part of the Austrian Ministry of Agriculture. You can now say that was a cruel mistake. I have already said almost national defence committee or state defense ministry. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: It's wrong!]] But you are already acting like Mr Fassleven on the question of a uniform Federal Animal Protection Act, so that you might think this is about very big things. [[Abg. Hans Helmut Moser: Minister Fassleven is responsible for every displeasure!]] [[Abg. Smoking Callat: Why Fassl Evening?]] You have to ask – the great worshiper Franz Kohl, Franz Kohl certainly worships Franz von Assisi, otherwise he would not have allowed this foundation – as you actually do with your Christian understanding. Mrs. Rauch-Kallat, you call Mrs. Perfuss: You're lying! – Lies Keep going! They apologise that there are these despots. That's a smooth lie. You say there was some... [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Sorry, I can't tell you what I heard? [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] May I tell you what I heard? - Excuse me. I'm not going to be banned from my perceptions in this house! I don't take that. A wonderful saying has come to my mind about this from a German Green; I can also quote it: We will not be able to prevent the powerful from lying, but we will force them to lie more and more shamefully, so that the lies may also be revealed!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e10315	Mr Wabl! In order to avoid misunderstandings, I do not do what I would otherwise have done at the end of this debate, that is to say, Mrs Rauch-Kallat, to give a call for an order for the expression "lye" towards Mrs Parfuss, and to call for an order that you have now used this word in a somewhat detonative manner, although you know that this has not been tolerated by all the political groups in this House for many years. And there can be no exceptions!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e10338	Mr President. I take note of that. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: An intensified repeater!]] Thank you very much, Mr Khol, for calling me "renewal offenders". [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Sturdy!]] I am not very happy that we in this Parliament are putting the language police to the fore, but the most immense things can be presented in a jargon and in a tone, as Mr Khol has often said. But that's another story, I don't want to discuss it now. Ladies and gentlemen! The ÖVP is the only political group in this House to wallow under a uniform Federal Animal Protection Act. The ÖVP is the only group which clearly appreciates the interests of certain agricultural lobbies more than the interests of animal welfare which a Christian group would have very well in store. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: There has been a trial in Salzburg for animal torture! That was the green chamber councillor Quittner from Seekirchen!]] However, it must be said, ladies and gentlemen, that the SPÖ is also required, as the SPÖ in the coalition never prevails on such delicate issues. This is also a little worrying. I am thinking, in this context, of important transport safety issues where SPÖ is unable to enforce – or wants to. I am thinking of the important question regarding the discrimination of certain minorities, which the SPÖ unfortunately cannot enforce, while the ÖVP constantly raises coalition issues and immediately convenes crisis meetings when it comes to its interests and its lobbys. I would like to say this, Mr Kostelka, with all the clarity: You should decide what you are party to: Do you take a party to the matter, or are you constantly suppressing Mr Khol's attempts to extortion and not able to represent those interests that are already represented by two thirds of this House? - Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e10403	Mr Wabl! I'd ask you for a second. [[Abg. Wabl will be asked by President Dr Fischer to speak briefly to each other.]] No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We shall vote on the request to the Constitutional Committee to report on the popular desire to create a Federal Animal Protection Act until 9. In December 1997, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of I call on the honourable Members of the House to give their approval to this request for a deadline. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e10449	We will resume the discussion on the XIII advisory group. Mrs Tegischer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 to 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e10473	Mr President. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! In the short term, I would like to address three areas. Over the years 1994 to 1998, expenditure on old load renovation increased by 190.7 percent and amounted to 500 million schilling. In Austria, according to the Federal Environment Agency, 20 000 suspect areas exist, 1 000 to 2,000 of them dangerous to very dangerous. Many studies of the Federal Environment Office are taking on immense periods of time – I would like to stress that – of up to 13 years in order to determine which method of rehabilitation needs to be applied. I think there is a need for action, and it is important to speed up the procedures. The funds for rehabilitating waste come from contributions paid for landfills and for the export of waste. This will reduce the cost of those who can only be considered to be the cause of the small part. The real producers of dubious methods of money would have to be asked much more for cash. I could therefore imagine a budgetary shift from the Water Economic Fund to the old-load rehabilitation, because old-load renovation also means protection against pollution of groundwater and thus also protection of our drinking water reserves. Second point: Deposit order. The financial burden, particularly for small rural communities, is a drop in advertising. So future main objective must be simply to deposit waste that no longer forms gases and does not decompose, so no longer react. The last point, which I think is very important, because it may be a proposal for discharge of the budget, is waste prevention and recycling. Waste prevention should be of course for every citizen. Mr Kopf has already stressed that the share of waste per citizen has fallen by 40 percent. It is important and cost-effective to also reuse waste. I would like to give a specific example from my home district of Osttirol. This is a Tyrolean bulk waste project. Waste and waste disposal analyses have shown that most of the waste is recyclable. In short, the key data on our bulk waste project, which is very instructive. As far as waste waste is concerned, the waste economic evidence for the communities is that 53 percent of the waste is bulk waste. We have also had the opportunity to send four trucks with 26 tonnes of reusable goods to Bosnia, thus creating three permanent jobs for our region, which is particularly important. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Liberal Forum.]] I believe - I think many share this view - that in the long term such innovations and ideas relieve the budget permanently. And I believe that in this sense our project, the project in East Tyrol, is worthy and exemplary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e10517	The next speaker is Mrs Aumayr. The speaking time is 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e10538	Mr President. Federal Minister! Environmental policy has landed on a side track, not only in Austria but across the EU. The budget needs of the EU Member States and, above all, the employment situation in Europe result in environmental policy being virtually no longer achieved in order to achieve the Maastricht criteria. Every project that is so pointless is pushed through, only with the argument that it creates jobs. Lambach is an example of this. [[Congratulation of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] This power plant project is completely uneconomic, ecologically an insanity, but it is built because it creates jobs according to ÖVP. [[Assured by the honourable Member Mag. Schweitzer and Ing. Reichhold.]] Federal Minister! Or genetic engineering: Her colleague, Rauch-Kallat, former Minister for the Environment, clearly says that the ÖVP will agree to the proposed EU directive on genetic engineering patents. Mrs. Rauch-Kallat, do you know what you're doing with it? – They simply ignore 1.2 million signatures and say: I don't even care. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: She's supposed to have the chair!]] This subcommittee is a pure Farce, Mrs Rauch-Kallat. Why don't you put the presidency back? You haven't lost anything there at all! I'll tell you. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But the ÖVP is acting like this everywhere; in nuclear policy it is the same. The EIA in Brussels has prevented it. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: But we did negotiate with Greenpeace yesterday!]] Yes, Minister, I'm right about you. You're doing it right. But what does the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats do in Brussels? [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: It does very well!]] It agrees that the EURATOM Treaty will be amended. [[Abg. Madl: A scandal!]] You prevented this, your party prevented it. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I can tell you one thing, too, Minister: The pioneering role of Austria in environmental policy has become nothing at all. On the contrary: We need to take back our high environmental standards so that we do not get on a side track economically. And another word about family policy. It is truly indescribable that the ÖVP and also you, Mr. Federal Minister, celebrate the recognition of the Constitutional Court, in which you are clearly and clearly guided by the constitutional judges that, after years of doing this kind of family policy and putting the ÖVP to the family minister for years, you have violated the Constitution. They have introduced a family tax which was against the Constitution, otherwise this knowledge would not have been realized. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: This is the double-beddedness!]] [[Abg. Madl: You accepted it!]] And that's what you're glad to hear! I can only tell you: I'm not surprised at this ÖVP at all. They welcome the findings you are making on and for yourself, Mr Minister; but the ÖVP also welcomes elections. [[Abg. Madl: Yes!]] It reached 3 percent less in the elections in Upper Austria and lost the majority in the state government, but you rejoice all the time. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They have failed in both environmental policy and family policy! .. [[Complaints with the liberals]]
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e10694	The next speaker is Mr Kampichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e10716	Mr President. Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I too would like to focus very briefly on the subject area of family. The subject of family has been very strongly discussed in the media lately. Two events are responsible for this: on the one hand, the pension reform, in which family and children are an essential factor to safeguard our pensions, on the other hand, of course, the recognition of the Constitutional Court, which my colleague, Aumayr, was also briefly addressed in a negative way. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: We need jobs!]] Mrs Aumayr! The ÖVP will do the best out of this knowledge, for the Constitutional Court has given us the right to do so in itself. [[Abg. Aumayr: No, he didn't give you the right!]] We from the Austrian People's Party already have a concept in the drawer, which can now be implemented happily, although this knowledge of the Constitutional Court does not fit many. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] That some do not fit, I have expected, I am disappointed with some, such as with our Federal Chancellor. I very much appreciate our Federal Chancellor, but his attitude towards this knowledge was disappointing for me. I also expect him to accept this knowledge. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! But let me now come to the discussions of the last week very briefly. I've been very touched by two statements. Unfortunately, Mr Haselsteiner is not present at the moment, Mr Kier is thank God. Mr Haselsteiner said last week: My children belong to me! – I can calm down Mr Hazelsteiner: No one will take his children away from him. [[Abg. Dr. Fuhrmann: My children belong to themselves!]] But I would like to tell him that his children are also part of our society. Mr Haselsteiner certainly had no problem in training his children. These children have been born into a very good family. I am convinced that they will continue to be an essential and very positive part of society in the future. Only Mr Haselsteiner must not go out of his situation when it comes to family policy. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I represent here the concerns of parents with several children who cannot enjoy this wealth and have some problems in dealing with their concerns and daily requirements. There are very many people with medium incomes who have to divide this income among several family members, which means that the amount available per person is small, even partially below the minimum of existence. I would like to make myself strong for these people, and for them the recognition of the Constitutional Court is very, very important. Mr Kier said he did not need the child allowance, the family allowance. Mr Kier may, of course, waive the amount which he deems negligible, which he receives under the heading Family Aid. If he doesn't need it, he's supposed to donate it to the "action life" that money urgently needs. It could help mothers with an income of less than 3 000 s per month. There his donation would be very well arranged. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I find that more people are talking about promoting families. I would like to be on behalf of the families. We need fair solutions for family taxation, but we also need fair solutions for our families in terms of tax deductions. A married couple without children can currently drop special expenditure up to an income of 999 000 S per year, but a family father who has three children to feed and has an income of 500 000 S does not have the chance to reduce these costs. It would be a lot more to say on the subject of family. For reasons of time, however, I can only wish the Minister of Family now that he can continue his successful path to the benefit of the families and to the benefit of our country Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e10804	The next speaker is Mr Oberhaidinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e10825	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Environment Minister, you have set yourself your goal of reducing CO2 emissions by 25 percent in the EU Environment Council in Berlin, and I think you know as well as we do that this objective should be achieved primarily by replacing fossil energy sources. So if you want to be successful, I believe that the federal expenditure you have planned should be bundled and targeted. I therefore think very little of the distribution to countries of around 800 million schilling under the title of the so-called "climate billions" of energy taxes without climate-related commitment. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: Is that something like the "technology billions"?]] Nor do I think that three ministries – each of them – want to promote one and the same alternative energy sources. If you really want to achieve your ambitious goal – and I can certainly identify it – you should have the greatest interest in concentrating the funds, targeting the funding and not distributing them according to the principle of foundry. It should also have the greatest interest in reducing the Austrian bottleneck in environmental promotion. I mean, speedy and successful Article 15a negotiations, as well as targeted promotion aimed at the outcome of these negotiations, first of all would be the right way to reduce CO2 emissions, second, to reduce the trade deficit and thirdly, in my opinion, to create thousands of urgently needed jobs. My group would like to support you, Mr Federal Minister, in your efforts in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e10865	The next speaker is Mrs Steibl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e10895	Mr President. Federal Minister! The ÖVP is important to the family, for a good reason: Those who raise, care for, and impart values to children fulfil essential services for our society. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] But one thing is clear: With children, it's getting harder and harder financially. Therefore, the ÖVP wants to create a family-friendly tax system that compensates for financial disadvantages. It was even broadcast by the Catholic Boys, according to an issue of the 10th century. In November, the model of Minister Bartenstein was confirmed in the right direction. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Müller.]] Especially at a time of change of values, at a time when violence, sects and drugs shake at the foundation of society and the family, it is essential to give their special protection and special support. The ÖVP is on the side of the families, which cannot be claimed by the liberals. Your family concept, Mrs Mertel, is certainly not necessary and does not correspond to the ÖVP as you have said today. [[Objection to the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: You seem to have not listened!]] Or do you think that equal-sex partnership or preventing the increase or shift of the budget for family counsellors, with which sect advisory services can be set up in the regions, is family-promoting? [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Mrs. Steibl! You didn't listen to me today! Admit it!]] I do not believe this, and our party also does not believe that, especially in the shortest time, over 300 brochures can be sent to the population on request. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: You didn't listen today! That's right?]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Probably you weren't inside at all!]] Mrs Mertel! I too listen to you. . I believe that this is very important, and I thank the Federal Minister for this changeover; it is more necessary than ever. In this context, I would like to point out the value and importance of prevention, which is what partner and parent education is. We also need to talk about how important it is for our families in the future – as always one may define family – to be a partner and parent education. Partnering and parenting can prevent violence in the family and provide information on the dangers that lurk in our society, such as the problem of sects. In this sense, I believe that we are on the right path from the Austrian People's Party, and we still wish ourselves many who are going with us.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e10990	The next speaker is Mr Kummerer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e11025	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mrs Aumayr, I do not know whether I correctly understood your statement. Has She said: Environmental policy does not take place, or have She said: Your environmental policy – the environmental policy of the liberals – is not taking place? – That would be more true. I can remind you that you were chairman of the Committee on the Environment. I cannot remember, however, that you had also called a meeting or had been active. Ladies and gentlemen! We are a few days ahead of the Kyoto environmental summit. Of course, carbon dioxide is a central issue these days. The development was clear: The Rio Summit has aroused great expectations, and New York has drawn a sobering picture of reality. In New York, President Clinton, especially the United States, has expressed the hope that in Kyoto, statements of the United States will be expected. We know today that these statements by the USA are modest and unacceptable. It was also a pity that China was expelled from the G 77 group in New York and that China also wanted to pursue an energy policy, an environmental policy that could not be considered sustainable. Ladies and gentlemen! In Kyoto the hour of truth will strike. In Kyoto, the states of this earth will not be able to take a position. The Austrian position is clear. I do not see it as Mrs Langthaler, who referred to Austria as "environmental grandmaul", when we take action with comprehensible concepts, with comprehensible steps. Austria was reserved to bring the question of energy as a key to sustainable development into the European Union. This paper was also accepted by the UN Special General Assembly. The target for reducing carbon dioxide – Mr Oberhaidinger has already cut it – is undoubtedly high, but it is not utopian. To achieve this Toronto goal, it takes many small steps. We need a national effort, but it can always be achieved. The Toronto Technology Program, which provides 34 individual measures, shows us the right way. The funding of 1.4 billion schilling per year is by no means utopian; these funds are mostly available. But we must be aware of the following: We have come here twice with the allocation of funds to the countries which are not the target for us. This is once the mineral oil tax for the maintenance of local transport, which has not brought the desired effect. Similarly, it should be in the energy tax. There will be a need for corrections. Finally, a comment on Mr Hofmann's comments. Of course, the CO2 tax is worth considering, but you have to discuss it; because a pure steering charge on carbon dioxide is not always the right way either. Biomass has the double CO2 emissions of methane. So that means: Biomass recycling would be taxed twice as high over CO2, twice as much as the combustion of fossil hydrocarbons. The way will have to be discussed. Steering measures on issuers' financial contributions are essential. We all – Mr Federal Minister, you have our support – will work to achieve the Toronto target in Austria. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e11080	I shall give the floor to Mrs Steibl for an actual correction on his own. I do this because there is a prejudice in relation to Mr Van der Bellen and because it is a humanly nice gesture. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e11113	High house! I'm correcting myself. I have spoken in my speech to Mrs Mother of the Liberal Forum and have taken Mrs Mertel mistakenly into my mouth. I apologize to Mrs Mertel.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e11161	The next speaker is Mr Wurmitzer. Speech time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e11183	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In my opinion, the statements made so far by the opposition side to the Austrian environmental policy are not serious at all. It is not true that Mrs Langthaler used it, namely that Austria is a "grandma" or that Mrs Aumayr's statement, which has meant that there is nothing going on in Austria's environmental policy. I would like to take out the area I am one of the most successful in environmental policy at all, and that is the settlement water industry. In 1997, 5.9 billion schillings were used in this area. This means an investment of a total of 16 billion Schilling, which will be effective in this way in Austria. The economic consequences can really be seen. This makes more than 7 000 jobs more effective. I do not want to talk about indirect jobs in the concrete parts industry, tube production and the like. There are also follow-up jobs in the form of sewage treatment facilities and care services for these plants. But even more important are the ecological consequences that are really worth seeing. Austria has been able to keep its standing waters – the lakes – in the past decades, and in recent years, to put the flowing waters more and more into a state that can be described as optimal. I would like to mention that Austria is in a happy position to have water supplies to envy other countries. The rainfall of 23 billion cubic meters per year alone is a huge reserve. It could be said that we have an ecological treasure. Therefore, the money for water protection is also well arranged. More than 3.9 billion schilling will also be available for the settlement water industry in 1998. In addition, 750 million schillings for protective water buildings from the agricultural budget are added. This is a huge sum that can be used in this area to improve living conditions in Austria. I would like to say that in the settlement water industry Austria can easily be awarded the World Championship title. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In order to achieve the effect earlier, the Water Economic Commission has agreed to prefer the date for the next fund meeting so that the funding for the next year can already be allocated at the end of January or early February. This means more safety for the builders and better planning for the affected communities. There is a huge difference between the Austrian People's Party and the Greens: The Greens are talking, and the Austrian People's Party is acting; also in the Commission! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I have seen for myself how the Green Group in the Commission has rejected requests for funding in a number of ways, not for material but purely formal reasons. If we had done the same as the Greens, some communities, builders and settlement water associations would be waiting for the promotion in vain. That's not the right way. With Dr. Bartenstein, the Austrian People's Party will continue to make serious environmental policy in the future!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e11246	The next speaker is Mr Lacner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e11267	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! In the area of family policy and family promotion, the debate is always very controversial and naturally emotional. A reason for these often so emotional debates lies in the fact that a lot is subsumed under the term "family". The single parent or, in most cases, the single parent forms a family as well as the partnership between man and woman, who, even if they are both working – I do not want to understand this devaluedly – form the classical family. In addition, the family and what one understands is exactly the area in which one can and must first and foremost observe a change in the value system of the population. So you see: There cannot be family support, but it must be seen equally differently due to the diversity of the family concept. Therefore, when talking about family policy, one should first also say which segment of this large area one would like to consider. I would like to focus on the subject of maintenance obligations, in particular the role of the State in this area. In 1985, the maintenance advance law was essentially adopted in its current form and has since been the basis of many similar laws in various European countries, which is why I believe that it should be considered in detail. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In essence, this law deals with the fact that the men's escape - for they are usually - from their obligation to support the child, by, on the one hand, reducing the financial pressure on the single parent at least in sub-areas, on the other hand, also confronting the tall parent as a state and asking him to comply with his obligation. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This security for single-parents and these hardness to the maintenance debtors, however, is actually only one side of the medal. Both bring desired effects from the point of view of social democracy: Help for the weaker and the need for solidarity from those who need it and, above all, it is possible to do so. The other side of this medal is the cost of this system. I would like to mention a few figures: In 1998, 920 million Schillings were estimated to be spent on the maintenance advance. This means a proud increase of more than 8 percent a year compared to the 1992 federal estimate. Experience has shown that between 40 and 45 percent of this amount can be recovered, but very often with great delay. What do these figures tell us? First of all, they tell us that despite the difficult budgetary situation in recent years, we have been able not only to maintain, but even to expand, the promotion of the group of people I consider to be very sensitive in this very sensitive area of the maintenance advance. Secondly, they tell us that we must be more concerned about the fact that no one can escape its financial obligations. Thirdly, they show us the importance of rapid, unbureaucratic and, above all, successful support for socially weaker groups. Ladies and gentlemen! This is the reason why I have spoken here and made the maintenance proposal the central point of my speech. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In my view, the very controversial knowledge of family taxation opens us up the possibility to focus more on reflections on a genuine and unbureaucratic aid to socially weaker families. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e11350	The next speaker is Mr Schrefel. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e11371	Federal Minister! Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Austria sees a central challenge of the 20th anniversary in the preservation of life bases in a largely natural environment. ==References== I have once again taken a look at the chapter on energy and the environment, and above all, at renewables, because they have many synergies at the same time. With this logo of the Austrian biomass association on this display panel, this is a striking representation. [[The speaker shows a panel with the logo of the Austrian Biomass Association and places it on the speaker's desk.]] Mr Wabl has already mentioned and praised this association today. Mr. Wabl! I wish you wouldn't make a red point on my artwork. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] It would be more like a black point. The Austrian energy supply is based on a balanced mix of energy sources and is characterized by the important role of renewable energy. The Austrian decision that the use of nuclear energy is too risky and expensive was correct. Nuclear energy is still not an option. The representatives of the Federal Government are invited to act at international level in all relevant EU bodies in the sense of Austria's opposition to nuclear energy. Austria also participated early and offensively in the international discussion on how the anthropogenic greenhouse effects could be reduced, and declared the reduction of CO2 emissions by 20 percent to be national targets. Ladies and gentlemen! Austria also notes the difficult accessibility of this objective and its implications for energy policy. Only a few countries have been more successful in the substitution of oil over the last 20 years than Austria. More than a quarter of the total primary energy expenditure is made up of renewable energy sources. In industry, more and more heat-power-coupling plants are being built, but there is still a great potential for improvement in the cellulose and paper industries, for example. The thermal insulation for buildings will continue to be reinforced at federal and national level. With a wide-ranging network, about 8 percent of the apartments in Austria are already connected to district heating, where biomass is increasingly used as an energy source. A key element for further expansion of district heating is the promotion of district heating by the federal government and countries. A comprehensive common instrument was established in the district heating promotion law of 1982, which launched grants and investment grants totalling 14.1 billion schilling between 1984 and 1995. Investment grants of 58 million Schilling were paid totalling 632 million Schilling for renewable energy alone in 1994 and 1995. There is also Lower Austria in a leading position. In the country of Lower Austria the 100th will be in the coming winter. Biomass heating works are opened. Mr Barmüller! Their claim of the morning that small customers or small investment operators are not being supported is incorrect. The countries have taken over the promotion contracts more strongly. In Lower Austria, new buildings, when biomass is used, are even increased by 60,000 s. Ladies and gentlemen! The stability rate of the Federal Government will enable it to make more money for the promotion of renewable energy in the future. It was equally positive to hear that you, Minister of Agriculture, together with the Minister of Agriculture, set up an eco-energy fund of 300 million schillings a few days ago. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This will continue to ensure that the successful path, namely the substitution of fossil energy and the promotion of alternatives, can be continued. Federal Minister! This path is an important step towards environmental and employment policies, which will be particularly effective in rural areas and take into account our objective of continuing to force biomass use. The fact that the current support model alone will not be sufficient in the future is clear. However, I think it is rather a wish for the Christian child to expect the Energy Organisation Act to provide a minimum share of renewable energy in its draft. [[Abg. Grabner: The Christkind comes only in Lower Austria!]] The next tax reform must at last produce more equal opportunities in the competition for renewable energy through its own incentives for ecology. This is a realistic requirement and an important cornerstone in the course of a comprehensive tax reform, because we are acting responsibly only if we guarantee our children the future in the environmental field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e11427	The next speaker is Mrs Binder. Speech time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e11508	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In principle, the family chapter raises the question of what the family is. I mean, there are different ideas and concepts that are equally different. Wishful thinking and reality are very different. It seems important and essential to me that different forms of life and family are allowed, respected, but also accepted. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The big term "family" includes a lot. I would like to pay particular attention to families with children, because I am convinced that in all the promotions the child must be at the heart of our interests. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The second aspect that I missed last week is the quality, especially the quality of living together people with children. That is, I mean, the question – but not the outer form of living together. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is mainly about quality assurance and the quality requirement for children within the family and the quality requirement for children who are cared for outside the family. This claim must be met, ladies and gentlemen, our priority objective and all our efforts and promotions must go in this direction. Minister! You said last week in the current hour: identical benefits for each child. I can personally agree with this statement, especially from the point of view that I do not see the child as an object, namely as a tax object, but as a subject with different needs, living conditions and gifts. Therefore, I am convinced that we need uniform minimum standards, which we can also guarantee, because the starting conditions of our children are very different. The path to growing up should, however, provide equivalent conditions for our children. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that family policy is, in itself, a comprehensive social policy linked to all areas of life. The social component must also be taken into account, as it is not about alms, but about compensation for disadvantaged children and also about compensation for children with special needs. Since you meant that family policy should not be social policy, I must tell you from my professional experience – I am a kindergarten – that the social aspect is an important factor, namely if support measures need to be taken, if we need to strengthen them and if support measures need to complement home education. One more word on child care. Although we have a well-developed network of childcare facilities in Lower Austria, we also need to take greater account of regional differences in the provision of facilities and the different needs of parents. I believe that there is still a great step to be taken until we can say that the quality claim on which our children have a right is actually covered. Ladies and gentlemen! Family policy cannot, therefore, be limited to financial compensation alone. Future-oriented family policy is the opportunity for an equal and equivalent portion of the children and the families in social life and life in themselves.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e11584	The next speaker is Mr Ellmauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e11605	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Just a short while to the family. The Constitutional Court of Justice, in its knowledge of 17th century, held that the Court of Justice of the European Communities had failed to fulfil its obligations under the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. In October, it was found that children and children are not exclusively private. With their decision to have children and to raise children, families do essential services in the interests of society as a whole. The "family" institution must be protected, and appropriate measures must be taken to ensure that its services are recognised for society. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, This is a statement made by the Commission of the European Union in 1994. ==References====External links==* Official website This statement is now of particular importance to Austria. The Constitutional Court's statement rightly states that a distinction must be made between taxpayers with children and taxpayers without children. The reason for this is that part of the income of parents must necessarily be spent on the maintenance of children. At present, however, there is a massive disparity for multi-child families. For example, a single mother or a single father with three children, with a family income of about 30,000 s per month, has a higher tax contribution to the State than he or she returns in the form of family allowance. There's a need for action. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] For years, the ÖVP has pointed out this unsustainable state and called for a minimum of existence for children. ==References====External links==* Official website 10. This view was confirmed in 1997. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: No! That's not true!]] In my opinion, the family is still a bearing pillar of our society. It is the smallest cell in the state's stage construction. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Minimum of existence is not right!]] It will perform functions today and also in the future that you all need. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: You need to read that again!]] Mrs. Colleague! This also proves the result of a survey conducted by the Institute of Demoscopy of the Academy of Sciences, according to which 82 percent of the Austrians consider the institution "family" indispensable and only 13 percent of those considered obsolete. In order not to be misunderstood, I would like to stress that I do not want to misrepresent those 15 percent of the Austrians who have opted for other forms of living together. The fact is, however, that more than four-fifths of the children in Austria grow up in traditional families. We want to relieve and strengthen these families by tax! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In Upper Austria, this has long been recognized and makes a family policy that is exemplary. It has been shown that multiple-child, single-earner and single-parent families are among the groups at risk of poverty in Austria. For this reason, we have chained an extensive family support package. This includes, for example, family assistance for school events in compulsory schools. In order to reduce the financial burden on families with at least two children participating in school events in one school year, the Upper Austria country shall provide support of 1 000 s per child if a certain income limit is not exceeded. Mr. Federal Minister! It would be desirable to introduce a grant in this or similar form for school compulsory events also at the federal level. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! We need to make the framework conditions for families with children more attractive for the future. Support should in particular benefit the multi-children's families. Children are not just an enrichment for family and society, children are the future of our people!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e11687	The next speaker is Mrs Tegischer. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e11708	Mr President. Minister! For the second time now on the subject of family. I would like to draw up two points and, first of all – and now for the time being – to cut something that our family spokesperson, Ilse Mertel, but also Mrs Haller, from the Liberal Group, have already mentioned, namely, the removal of home travel aid. I have tabled Question No 16 on this issue and I would like to point out that 25 000 families are affected, especially rural multi-child families, mainly mining families, low-income families. In order to discuss this issue again, I suggest that at least the actual costs for the journey from home to the school community will be reimbursed. It is already being negotiated by our side and in general with the Minister of Finance. The second issue, which is very important to me, concerns youth, it is about the promotion of the federal youth. In 1998, there are 38 million Schilling for the Bundesjugendring. The objective of federal youth funding was always the right of youth organisations – no matter which party – to manage the available money independently. Minister! As I know, you also share my view that young people must learn their own responsibilities in order to achieve self-employment. However, the Ministry of Family Affairs is now the place for young people, which is to be present as a topic or to appear to be up-to-date, and it grants support for projects according to its intentions, and I think that this freedom to be responsible is greatly limited. At present, two thirds of the funding is allocated to projects and only one third is devoted to basic funding. In this context, projects must be sought from the outset in the Ministry of Youth, and there they must be approved. I could imagine setting up a project fund that must not be politically controlled. At the same time, basic protection for youth organisations, especially small ones, must be ensured. I would like to welcome, with this in mind, a little criticism of the youth organisations, a better cooperation between the individual youth organisations, so that they can work more efficiently and also present themselves externally, carry out joint actions and projects. Our top goal must be to give young people free access to education, to create the framework conditions, such as home travel aid, and to allow them to carry out projects of their own responsibility and independence in their spare time, so that they can become independent personalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e11757	The Federal Minister is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e11778	Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I should also like to speak briefly about the two areas of family and youth. Mrs Tegischer! On two issues raised by you: There were long negotiations with the Bundesjugendring, which eventually led to a result which met my goal of calculating at least some of the commitment appropriations for the Bundesjugendring project-related. I think it is also possible to think of youth associations and related youth work, which is required in the area of free youth promotion and overall in the field of funding of the Federal Republic of Germany: project-related applications, which can then be approved. Finally, it is tax money and, finally, the Court of Auditors has expressly criticised this, pointing out that these funds are not available for basic funding but should be allocated to projects. But I am pleased with the consensus reached with the organisations concerned. As far as home travel aid is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Mertel has already addressed the issue and I have already said elsewhere that I would like to be willing to look at this subject again if the FLAF has surpluses, which should be the case from today's point of view in 1999; after paying off the debt it currently has, I would like to see it closer to you and to talk to you, in particular, to help families who live away and whose children often have to go back very far in school. This is also true in the light of the fact that children in the big cities also enjoy school-free travel, although they often do not have to go even three corners to get to school. High house! Today, 600 million Schillings from federal funds have been used to set up childcare facilities, together with another 600 million of the countries. These figures are correct. There have been 15 500 additional places created, including 6 600 in Lower Austria. So I can confirm and think – a sense with Minister of Women Prammer and the cooperating countries – that this activity has been extremely successful. With regard to the request made by Mrs Haller on the part of the Liberals to include the PES in the ÖVP programme, I would like to say to you: Mrs Haller! As a Member of Parliament, you have the right to criticize a lot and to demand a lot from the government, but for the ÖVP community, which I also represent, I can say: What we include in our programmes or not, we are left with it. One thing, however, is that the study requested unanimously by the Family Policy Advisory Council will be widely discussed when it is finished – that should be the case in a few months’ time – and that we will then be able to discuss this subject in a relevant way and on the basis of scientific data. I do not want to discuss this today, because there is little point in a discussion without the appropriate data base and is not serious. Proposer "seriotic": Mrs Motter! You told me a few weeks ago, I had a tick. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Mother.]] Today, you say that I have a flaw, namely that family advisory services also provide sect advice. I am part of this "Tick" or this "Fable" because I think it is one of the tasks of family advice, especially preventive – since it is not only about those who are already affected and in sects – to inform about it. [[Abg. Sweamlein: That should have been the Pauli Kiss in the youth!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Swim, watch out!]] It is about protecting young people and whole families from falling home to the evil sect through preventive information. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I come to the conclusion, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Binder! I would like to answer you, in addition to what I said in the debate a week ago: Family policy is not social policy. Of course, much of social policy is also included in family policy. But if – as the LIF model wants – you only start to help families and promote families, if families have already fallen on or below the poverty line, that is, become social cases, family policy would be reduced to a purely social policy, and that is not it. [[Abg. Dr Gredler: You didn't understand anything!]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: (in the direction of Federal Minister Hostasch) "Reducing" means "reducing"!]] Family policy must be much more than purely social policy, I would like to have said. That's no contradiction. . I thank you for giving the word, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e11873	Thank you, Minister of State. Mr Stampler. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e11897	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! In the Federal estimates 1998, an increase is planned in the field of the environment compared with the previous year. This is a development which is mainly due to the increased expenditure on the national parks and on water conservation and on which I am very happy. Although it will never be enough for some groups, this chapter must also provide the means between ecological necessity and economic compatibility. One point I just mentioned is the national parks. Thanks to the commitment of our Federal Minister and the federal states, especially private initiatives, we have succeeded in concluding three Article 15a contracts for the establishment of national parks over the period of one year. ==References== This year a treaty on the establishment of the Thayatal National Park will be signed. As one could already see from the press a few days ago, the Donau-Auen National Park was now also internationally recognized by the World Nature Conservation Organisation. Given the size of our country, its three internationally recognized national parks are probably a record that we can and may be proud of. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I should also like to point out - and I do not wish to mention this as a steirer - that preliminary discussions have already been held with the State of Styria on the establishment of a national park of Gesäuse and have begun preparatory work. One of the most important points in the past – it will remain in the future – was air pollution. Austria has also taken a successful path. So SO2 emissions fell by more than 85 percent between 1980 and 1995. We are leading all over Europe. In the case of dust emissions, a reduction of around 42 percent was achieved between 1980 and 1993. NOx emissions fell by 24 percent from 1980 to 1995, and carbon monoxide emission reduction was around 30 percent during the same period. The values regarding greenhouse gas are relatively stable, but it is nevertheless a high value in international comparison. This gives us and you, Mr Minister, a clear mandate for the future, namely: the path we have taken, to continue consistently and to strengthen ourselves internationally for the protection of the environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e11951	I call Mrs Sonja Ablinger. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e11976	Mr President. Minister! Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Ellmauer has addressed a subject on which I now want to come back, namely the issue of multi-child families and poverty. Mr Ellmauer! They have said that, above all, child families, single parents and single earners are at risk of poverty. I think you have to take a second look at that. I would like to point out – and this is evident in relevant studies – that families are not, in principle, poor because they have children but rather are poor because incomes are accordingly low. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. That's the same thing!]] So it is not so much the fact that someone has children as a result of poverty, but rather the level of income. We know that there are rich families with children and poor people without children. So to know what it is about, we always have to look at the income situation. This ultimately explains why, in particular, single-parents are affected by poverty. Therefore, if we want to help poor families with children, we need to change something in the area of family toughness – in this respect the budget is effective. It has already been mentioned by my colleague, Mr Mertel, that in 1998 the family hard work has been done by 10 million schillings lower than in 1997, especially because it has not been exhausted. In view of the fact that we have to talk about families and poverty in Austria, it is quite strange that the funds for a family hard balance will not be exhausted. I think this is essentially due to the fact that the criteria for this are so strict and harsh that families really have to be pushed to the edge of poverty that they can make money out of this fund. A second problem is probably that this fund is not well known. I think it is necessary to do something about it. According to our experiences – we hear that from people who turn to us – the processing also takes too long, it takes too much time between the application and the payout. If you want to help families in need, you have to help them relatively quickly. It should not be the case that the "Krone-Christkindl" may appear earlier than payments from this fund. Minister! If we are serious about this – I suppose it is – to help poor families, it would be nice if we would have you on our side if we were to seek the reform of the family hard work. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e12019	No one is reporting on this point at all. The debate is closed. I have no wish for a final word on the part of the rapporteur. We come to the votes. We are the first to vote on the Advisory Group XIII of the Federal Proposal for 1998 – this Advisory Group includes Chapters 18 and 19 – in 841 of the Supplements as amended by the Special Report in 910 of the Supplements. I would ask the ladies and gentlemen of the House to give an appropriate signal to the Advisory Group XIII of the 1998 Federal Proposal. – This is decided by a majority. According to § 55 para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the vote on the motions for resolutions tabled at the time of the debate of this group should be taken at once. Is there any objection? - That's not the case. So we are taking these votes. First of all, we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Sweiters and comrades concerning non-disbursement of the Federal Environment Agency. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who have this motion for a resolution by the honourable Members. Sweitzer and comrades agree to give a sign in this regard. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Doppelmüller!]] – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. Next, we shall vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Haller and Mr Comrades on child care checks. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this motion for a resolution by Mr Haller and Mr Comrades to give a sign on this point. – The application remains in the minority. He is therefore rejected. There is another motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Haller and Mr Comrades on the valorization of family aid. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen of the House who agree with Mr Haller's request for the valorization of family aid. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. The next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann and comrades on reducing CO2 emissions while at the same time creating jobs by promoting renewable energy sources. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who have tabled this request by Mr Dipl.-Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). – This is the minority. [[Abg. May. Stadler: (for the Abg. Dr. Stumbling! Bravo!]] Even if my colleague had voted boldly, that would not change this statement. The application is rejected. We shall vote next on the motion for a resolution by the honourable Members. Chamberlanders and comrades concerning kindergarten billions. I would ask the honourable Members to have this motion for a resolution tabled by Members. In this respect, Members of the Chamber and Comrades agree to give a sign. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. This concludes the discussions on these negotiating groups. Advisory Group VII Chapter 15: Social Chapter 16: Social security Chapter 17: Health Advisory Group XI Chapter 50: Financial management Chapter 51: Bank account Chapter 52: Public levies Chapter 53: Financial compensation Chapter 54: Chapter 55: Pensions (Government) Chapter 59: Financial debt, exchange of currencies Text of the Federal Financial Act, establishment plan, vehicle plan and plan for data processing plants
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e12162	We are now entering the joint debate on the Advisory Groups VII – Social Affairs and Health – as well as XI – Finance – of the 1998 Federal Estimate, further on the text of the Federal Finance Act and all the investments that have not yet been negotiated. Does one of the rapporteur wish to speak? This is not the case. However, the rapporteur-general, Mr Fink, spoke on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e12183	Thank you, Mr President. – I shall make the following correction to the report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (841 and 841 of the Supplements): Federal Finance Act for the year 1998, including investments: I am correcting that in the establishment plan the total number of contract staff VB II in Chapters 63 and 64 on page 52 of the Committee's report "592" and not "593". Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e12202	I would like to thank the rapporteur-general for this point. We are now entering the debate. First of all, Mr Magistrate has spoken. Chief. The speaking time was set at 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e12231	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! We now come to the debate on the Social, Social and Health Chapter. The relevant key figures of the budget, including the amendments that are necessary as a result of the pension reform, have been available to the House for a few days now and are by no means to be seen as a renewal for this debate. I would like to address a few special contributions because of the low remaining speaking time. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! They have promised in the Government Declaration on Social and Social Security Chapters a series of measures for which no coverage is available in the present budget from the point of view of the liberals. I would therefore ask you to inform us in the context of this debate when the overdue measures promised by the Federal Government in its statement of Government in 1994 are finally implemented. I would remind you that you promised, for example, the transfer of rehabilitation centres and health facilities to a holding of the main association. This should be implemented at the end of 1996. However, implementation has not yet taken place. They also promised in the field of accident insurance to have models for leisure and household accident insurance developed and presented by the summer of 1995. None of this is yet to be seen, although these two areas, such as leisure and household accidents, have, unfortunately, only functioned in a limited way in these areas. In the field of pension insurance, certain harmonisation efforts are now under way. I therefore welcome the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats for the Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Group and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and Reformist Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. When reviewing the Hausemann study, it is clear – you know – that some areas of savings are still open. We believe that, when resources are getting tighter, the potential for savings in social security must also be fully exploited and that there can be no stopover in reform efforts to harmonise social security. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! You know, of course, that we have had freedom of movement with our criticism of the pension reform. You will see these days that in the field of pension reform, your party youth – that of the Austrian People's Party, but also your own – is slowly refusing to follow and is initiating a young people's desire to secure a fair share for the future for the generation of under 45. I believe that nothing would have done better in this debate than that now, as legitimate witnesses to how rightly the opposition had become with its criticism, the experts of your own youth have also become mobile and are going to show you clearly and clearly what they think about your pension reforms, especially for the younger generation. [[Complaints with the liberals]] Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! You know, of course, that the boom towards early retirement is by no means a brake. Wifo-chef Kramer just this week, in a press release – he is certainly not an expert of the liberals, but still your expert, your relevant expert in this field – not only predicted an additional boom for early retirement, but he is also quite factually justified, as the opposition parties did in the debate on pension reform, almost with the same arguments. I therefore believe, Mrs Bundesminister, that there will not be a standstill in the area of pension reform, early pensions and the figures for the budget for this area, but that we will be required to make additional savings in the coming months and years. I believe that the reform of the pension system, which has now been adopted, is no longer a first step, and that measures need to be taken to give a fair future to the younger generation, the generation under 45 years old. Mrs. Federal Minister! They know that the appropriate criteria for the AMS to shift funds to an active labour market policy are not only required by the opposition parties but, of course, also by the OECD. Today, in a week, the EU summit on work will take place in Luxembourg. Work and employment have been a supposedly important concern of the European Union since 1993. The funds that have been used by the States in this area are enormous, and the successes that have been achieved at European level are, unfortunately, modest. The OECD papers clearly and clearly show that only those countries that have successfully implemented their restructuring of labour market promotion towards active labour market policies, away from passive labour market policies in the appropriate form. Denmark, the Netherlands and, to a limited extent, the UK with its new concepts are highlighted here. There are also areas in Austria that are praised. We liberals have recently voted in favour of extending the work foundation for the food industry, because this area seemed promising to us and has a high return rate for women to work. Mrs. Federal Minister! So we see that in Austria too we have quite good concepts, but they are not yet enough. We liberals therefore call on you to pay more attention to active labour market policies, and we must also give you the heart to what the OECD has told us about, namely job creation in small and medium-sized enterprises and not only in the large industry and in the public sector. [[Complaints with the liberals]] It is precisely these small and medium-sized enterprises that are the backbone of employment in Austria, and these enterprises should have earned – as the OECD rightly says – finally to be included in a corresponding funding potential.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e12313	The next speaker is Mr Walter Guggenberger. Speaking time: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e12335	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! There, Mr Mag. Mag. I should like to remind you of the fact that the OECD report in 1997 has ceased to be a major step forward. Everyone who is interested in a serious discussion of the state of our Austrian health care system is recommended to take a look at this OECD report. This report states: Health care in Austria is high quality and accessible to everyone. The OECD gives us this praise for our Austrian health system in its recent report on Austrian healthcare. This, ladies and gentlemen, should be a little proud. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Rasinger.]] The OECD points out that infant mortality in Austria is one of the lowest in the world and that in the last ten years no other country in Europe has been able to increase life expectancy so much again. An Austrian born today may expect a life expectancy of 80 years, a male child with a life expectancy of 74 years. [[Abg. Gaugg: Guggenberger, what has the SPÖ contributed to this?]] There is an international standard of measurement for the health status of a population, a measure called "reduction of life expectancy through avoidable diseases", and – listen carefully now, ladies and gentlemen! – nowhere in the OECD region has it been possible to achieve as excellent data as in Austria in the last ten years. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Rasinger.]] [[Abg. Gaugg: What has the SPÖ contributed to this?]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! These are also facts, these are the foundations we can be proud of in our health policy to be jointly responsible. We have adopted a remarkable package in this House before the financial year, which has put the funding of hospitals on new, solid financial bases. This political decision has led to remarkable efforts. Many, many months we have negotiated with the countries and have accomplished something you have believed on the right side of this house that we would never achieve it. [[Abg. Madl: Late enough!]] Today is quite the time to draw a certain balance, and we can see that this health care fund has brought what we have expected: a reduction in the length of the stay – people are less long in the hospital; it has been done some positive, though, Mr Günther Leiner, in this area of corrections are necessary and it is very important to put on retusches. [[Abg. Dr. Leiner: No, that's not true!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Primarius!]] But we agree, Mr Leiner, that it was and is a good joint work, and we will, of course, be working together wherever improvements are necessary for these improvements, just as in the past. But at that time there were remarkable unconventions – also from this side of the house again. [[towards the freedom of movement]] There it has been said that the call will result in the medical presence no longer being given in the hospitals. It was waved with the body cloth, it was depicted horror scenarios. At the time, the members of the state government of all the Austrian federal states promised that they would not benefit from these legal provisions in order to reduce the standards in the Austrian hospitals. Today, a year later, you can say: They have kept a word, and we have been confirmed in our opinion! This part of the reform is also one that can be seen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This year we have put in place measures which have led Austrian health insurance to write black numbers again. You know: 3 billion deficit, 4 billion schilling deficit – these were the forecasts! Today, we can point out that in the middle of the year, social health insurance has shown a surplus of 566 million schilling. [[Abg. Dr Gredler: Who pays this?]] Austrian health insurance does not swim in money, but at least it writes black numbers again, and this is the result of a bundle of measures that we have decided by our majority, and you also have to acknowledge these measures retrospectively. [[Abg. May. Main: Who pays this?]] We are also pleased that the farmers are docking in this proven system of the General Social Security Act because they know that they are well removed in this general social security system with over 4 million insured persons. Farmers are right to dock on this system. This is a good system, which is a system that has proved to be successful for decades. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: The Schwarzenberger is delighted!]] [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] In conclusion, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen: We took a short breath after last year's efforts, we took a creative break, but you will be able to convince yourself that we will not rest in the next few weeks and months. The health report will be discussed here, there will be new training rules for the various health professions, we will link up a large health promotion package and many more things. I can assure you: Health policy will also very often be on the political agenda of this House over the next few months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e12500	Mr Dr Kier is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Kier.]] What are the problems? [[Abg. Dr. Kier: Mrs. Federal Ministers is no longer distracted! Thank you!]] [[Abg. May. Guggenberger: But soon again, because the honourable Member is already going to her!]] [[Abg. Dr. Kier: A meeting took place!]] Excuse me, I didn't understand you. Skill You'll repeat that again. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: A meeting took place earlier! It's over! I would otherwise have asked for a session break, because I wanted the attention of Mrs Bundesminister! But she's already on the government bank! And that's why, thank you!]] She's here, and you're taking the floor now. Good. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e12602	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to take advantage of the debate on the social chapter in the Federal proposal to deal with a few figures and their political dimension, and to hold something which, although not directly negotiated, is directly related to it. My group has tabled a self-employed request in these days, in order to finally allow employers' contributions to be removed from the total wage. We believe that this is a central issue, which is essential, in particular as regards its steering effect on the distribution of working time in the labour market. We believe that the economic and social sides must be brought together in such a way that there is a positive development. You have partly introduced the wage amount as the basis for calculating employers' contributions, where the small employees are affected: on the employer's side. This is an interesting approach from the structural point of view, but, of course, it remains completely complete because it deals only with small employees. This makes me a little daunting, because the question of small employees is a much more sensitive question than you, I think, perceive it. You have, by what you are doing here, created a revenue-based measure with late consequences. I'll tell you what I mean by this: On the other hand, it is where you manage to make co-insured health insurance payable so far. In this area You will be able to obtain contributions for which you do not have to provide new services which you would not have had to do without it because of another matter. This may also make sense, but it is very hard at the example of small employees, and you are dealing with it late on, because if you really want to recognize pension insurance in some way, you will probably not be able to remain in the equivalence principle, which means that you will have to expect late consequences on the pay side. That is why I wanted to mention this at the beginning of my remarks, because I believe that if one had decided from the outset – under reduced contribution rates, of course, because that should be non-profit-making – to make the wage sum the basis would be a system that would also be the interface for an environmental tax reform, provided that it is appropriate to replace employers' or employees' contributions with other taxes. Only when you do this will you be able to achieve it at all, and that seems to me to be important, because at present the Federal proposal for what the chapter Social Affairs is about is marked by an extraordinarily skilled but from my point of view more than strange juggling with numbers. They're pushing numbers back and forth. I'll take it to a very specific point: After the federal proposal, you expect declining employment – I say this with all clarity! – because you provide for lower approaches in the area of unemployment insurance revenue than in the previous year. We have discussed this in the Committee on Budgets and have also received a written reply from the Federal Minister. However, this answer has not calmed us at all, because this written answer to the question can be found that these figures are subject to an even greater uncertainty than we have already suspected. I'm just quoting a half sentence that might cause a conscious confusion. It says here: "by means of contemporary analytical trend exploration". That's right. This is the economics tool you are using, Mrs. Federal Minister. However, the accuracy of the hits is low, and you have to note that the 1997 federal estimate and the actual development in 1997 are largely different, in the order of well over 2 billion schilling. In this respect, the apparent decline has been clarified at first, but it now emerges that you have made much too optimistic assumptions for 1997 as to what the employment situation is going to be. In fact, in the actual budget, you have had to note that by 2 billion schillings you have made fewer contributions from unemployment insurance than you had estimated for 1997. Therefore, the newly estimated sum is now quite higher than the execution. I'm just asking you: What is the accuracy of the hit this time? Maybe with a similar one again? I have a strong concern that it is so, otherwise the following aspects would not be explained: In the field of expenditure at the level of unemployment benefit providers and emergency aid beneficiaries, the explanatory remarks on the Federal Proposal suggest that you assume that 5 000 beneficiaries will be transferred to the integration aid under § 34a AMSG. In the written reply on the basis of the Committee's request, you write that 4,000 people would be relocated, but you have not changed the figures. Two more figures, which are very important in this context: They also represent how the whole thing is developed. There you can clearly see that you expect a dayset of about 200 s to be used for karenz money. This is about 2 s more per day than for those people who are in the emergency aid, and this is 110 s less than for those people who receive unemployment benefits, and it is 44 s less than for those people who are in need. In other words: The karenz payers are at the bottom of the scale. At this point I would like to briefly address you, Mr Feurstein, in particular, and remind you of the following: Mr. Feurstein, in January you were interviewed in a discussion with the press on the further development of the social situation. "The press" carried out the following – I may quote –: "For Feurstein, however, it is no question that the two years after each other the care allowance did not increase again next year must be valorised. The same was true of karenz leave allowance, unemployment benefit and emergency aid." Our group has chosen the money from these fields and has put forward a request for the joint will of this House, namely to increase the amount of care which has not been valorised for a long time, to the same extent as pensions. We believe that this would be fair, and 1.33 per cent after a three-year break is not an amount of which one could say that he is insolent, given the fact that the paycheck is on the scale of these amounts in the lower place, namely at 200 p. But this request has not found a majority. At the same time, however, I can remind you – and this is painful for you now – that in the same "press" talk the current German Chancellor climate has said: We will valorize pensions for next year! That was done. We have agreed to this because we think it is right after three years. But why not take care of the karenz money, too? I am not so bold to talk about the care money, because that represents a much greater volume. I'm not so smart to talk about the emergency aid, where you might be under pressure. But here, I think, you make a family policy mistake with social policy tools. I wanted to show you this! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] They always accuse us of being evil when we call for effective aid. Another small aspect, which belongs to: 1.33 per cent is the increase in pensions. The proposal was put forward in the Committee on Budgets, which will probably find its majority here, and the pension subsidies only in the field of social security, i.e. not in the Federal Offices, Federal Railways and Post, in order to increase 3.1 billion schilling. This is a decision in the Committee. That is 5.5 percent of the total federal grants. How do you justify a 5.5 percent increase in the Federal Pension Insurance Grants if the pension increase in itself is only 1.33 percent? Does this mean that you are almost funding the total increase from federal subsidies, or is it covered by contributions? I'll tell you: The suspicion is that you could not finance the 1.33 percent pension increase from the system, but only with increased federal subsidies. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: That's wrong now! It was right at first, but that's wrong now!]] You have to admit that! This can be a positive thing when it is really about valorizing very low pensions. 3.1 billion schilling on the one hand, which is 5.5 percent of federal grants, and 1.33 percent on the other: These are numbers that do not fit together, and then we must start as an oppositional MP, not to do what the ministry does, namely a time series analytical trend exploration, but to interpolate, consider and interpret to an extent that makes you quelled. It can't be the sense that suddenly there is a bag, a bag of 3.1 billion shillings on it, without it being duly justified. As you know, there is no real reason for such a thing in the committees, and the explanatory remarks to the Federal proposal could be read differently. It was important to me to have said that. And that is one of the many reasons why we believe that this chapter cannot be accepted. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Final aspect – and this is at least as important to me as what has been said so far – is: What Drives Are you again in favour of a disfavor in the field of active labour market policy? They'll show you amounts, and then you'll cave them out of the back. They have reinvented § 38a and § 34a in the field of labour market service law. These are perhaps even interesting in their structural effect. But at the same time, you have opened a door to using other resources of active labour market management to abolitate the unemployed. That's exactly what's happening there. In other words, in future you will use even more resources from active labour market policies to represent unemployment payments. In any event, we are not particularly well placed in the field of active labour market policy, and I therefore ask you: Stop with this down and down, and think about it: If § 38a were to work, it would be a good reason to reduce the pension subsidies from the labour market administration to the pension funds and not to raise them again as you do this year. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e12656	Mr Leiner. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. You have a voluntary time limit of 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e12677	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. Minister! May I hand over a small present from Salzburg to these two rulers. You can then fortify with "Mazard balls", so to speak, with Mozart swing, the slopes of Salzburg are racing down. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[The speaker gives Federal Minister Edlinger and Federal Minister Hostasch, both of whom sit on the government bank, a package of Mozart balls, of varying size, to which Federal Minister Hostasch assigns some of them to their ministerial colleague.]] Mrs. Minister! However, I am not pleased that we have enough money at the Mother-Child Pass, by 3 billion schilling less than 1996. Secondly, I do not like the fact that we also have fewer resources for the fight against addiction by 200 000 s. That is why we cannot implement those actions that we have actually proposed, namely the extension of preventive measures, basic research and also the implementation of EU measures, as we have proposed. However, I like to see health promotion increased by 100 million schillings. I would like to stress in particular that this is an essential merit for our colleague and my friend Rasinger, who has worked with infinite zeal to ensure that these funds are spent. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like the main association to go up with 100 million schillings, as it would be in accordance with the ASVG law. Now I also want to lose a few words on the LKF. - May. Unfortunately, Guggenberger is no longer here. – The rail is the right one, Mrs. Minister. I am convinced that it is good as it is now. However, some shortcomings have been reported. I would like to point out these shortcomings again today – and I have to point this out time and again. First: If the infrastructure is not built outside – and I have been stressing this over and over again, for a long time – if you don't have group practices, if you don't have daily clinics, if you don't force the doctors to do so, then the LKF won't take hold. The situation is now such that while the length of the stay has been reduced, the number of recordings has increased by 8 per cent. This means that more than 150 000 people are admitted to hospitals each year than before. We must therefore build this infrastructure. Secondly, Ambulance fees, barriers, however, should be created. A problem that affects the foreign-intensive states in particular is the fact that the foreign patients do not pay. The reason for this is that at that time the administration was not properly prepared by the Ministries, especially by the Ministry of Finance, Social Affairs and the Ministry of Health. There must be something to be done! There are 200 million schillings, and of course this is happening to small hospitals like Zell am See with 18 million schillings and Schwarzach with 25 million schillings already very strong. Mrs. Minister! I would very much ask you to speak to the Courage, Mother Courage, about social security and the main association once a very hard word! We've been talking about this for a long time and we haven't had any consequences. There must be something from the main association. The daily clinics must be forced and built up accordingly. A word on the employment initiatives: Especially in the health sector there is a huge market. In the next ten years, we could put in place and employ at least 200 000 young people in up-to-date occupations. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e12750	Mr Ollinger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of 10 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e12771	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr. Minister! I have been following with interest how you have corrected the uneven distribution made here by Mr Leiner through solidarity on the government bank. I very much liked the fact that at least within the government, even if only by a political group, there is solidarity. But I think there should be solidarity with the House. [[Federal Minister Edlinger: I didn't eat any more, everyone ate!]] On the matter: I have repeatedly pointed out in all the talks and speeches on this budget in recent weeks – and this has been done in front of me by Mr Kier, as far as I could say – that one of the most serious mistakes in this budget is the redeployment of unemployment insurance funds into funds spent on pension insurance. I also explain why this is a serious mistake. This is a serious mistake, because, apart from the optics that is generated by it, the actual use of funds is a reweighting, a conversion – if one speaks of the generation contract, then one must also say that – in favour of the generation in retirement and because, on the other hand, by the non-valorization of the pension money and by the non-valorization of emergency aid, which, on the contrary, has been greatly reduced by the last savings packages in certain areas, a clear signal has been given that goes in the wrong direction: that the generation in working life does not have the right to valorization while the generation in retirement has this claim. I am in favour of the right of valorization among pensioners, but the sign that you have given by the fact that the family allowance, the pensioner's allowance, the emergency allowance and also the care allowance have not been valorised is a false sign, and this can only be wrong for the younger generation because of the non-valorization, but also because of the wrong weighting of the funds. Then: With 15 billion schilling – you know, Mrs. Minister – you can already make a good piece of active labour market policy. The funds spent each year on active labour market policies amount to around 5 billion schilling. More than 7 billion Schilling are drawn from the unemployment insurance budget per year for pension insurance. If I could use these resources as a minister, I would be pleased, because this would result in a much larger number of people who are unemployed or could enter employment than is the case at present. With regard to the use of other means of active labour market policy, which Mr Kier has already mentioned, I would also like to say a few words: I am concerned, Mrs Minister – and these are things that the public have achieved in recent weeks and months – that there is no clear list of criteria for the use of the European Social Fund funds "Objective 4 funding". I am concerned that funds can be used for highly liquid companies, where it is all about the managers of these companies being able to do personal training. If that were just the money from the European Social Fund, I would say: It should be if we believe at European level that these funds are well-appointed! However, the problem we have is that, in order to make these funds liquid, funds from active labour market policy must be used. In other words, it is necessary to make use of funding which should actually be used for the ability to work, which should actually be used for the promotion of the unemployed and which should actually be used for the reintegration of the unemployed into the labour market. If 100 million schillings or a smaller part of these funds from unemployment insurance – no matter how much, from the signal effect it is clear – are used to provide managers with personality training if part of these funds, because the labour market service can no longer properly control the use of these funds, or wants to go to companies in Vienna, who are close to Scientology companies, then, I think, is fire at the roof in the area of labour market management. Mrs. Minister! You have a problem on your neck, which is already a fundamental one: Although we have a distributed labour market administration called labour market service, you have been proud in the past that this disincentive has taken place, this labour market service must in principle continue to work under the direction of the Ministry and has no power to decide on the use of its resources. If you want to obtain funds, the Minister of Finance and you, the Minister of Social Affairs, are already standing there and withdrawing these funds and do not leave the labour market service to work independently. If, on the other hand, the labour market service was asked to control the use of these funds by means of clear guidelines prohibiting a highly liquid company from paying a personal training for highly liquid managers from the resources of the labour market service, then what your subordinates offer in the field of labour market service would not be sufficient to explain that they could not control it. What is it for a character of distributed institution that says on one side: The funds will be withdrawn from us, depending on what Parliament decides, we cannot act independently, and on the other hand we do not know about the use of these funds. In the next few years, I think, on the issue of dissemination, on the use of resources in the field of active labour market policy and, of course, on the fact that in 1998 and 1999 - and I suspect that in the following years too - unemployment insurance funds will be withdrawn for pension insurance purposes. This is a completely false purpose, which is to be abolished, because it creates a false picture for youth, for the generation of jobs, and because it is not correct from the principle either. In principle, it would be more honest to increase the contribution to pension financing by a percentage point than to increase unemployment insurance contribution by more than one percent and thus not to make posts transparent. I come to another point. Mrs. Minister! There is an answer to the question, which also refers to a withdrawal of funds, possibly an upcoming withdrawal of funds. Mrs. Minister, I think I know what I'm talking about. It's about accident insurance. You have informed us in a reply to a question that it is quite possible that, in the 1998/99 budgets, as has been the case in recent years, funds from accident insurance for the purposes of budget financing will be diverted. [[Federal Minister of Hostasch: 1998 not!]] There it says: 1998 and 1999. They cannot, in principle, rule out it. But this can be done during the year, as in the past few years. There have already been these possibilities. [[Federal Minister Hostasch: What?]] – Well, not in 1998, then we will continue to discuss the 1999 budget, which will be the case in a few months. In this reply to Mrs Minister's question, she tells us – and there is a connection to this withdrawal – that she expects the corresponding discussions with the social partners on Article 6 of the Workers' Protection Act to be started or concluded in autumn. Article 6 regulates occupational medical and safety care in small businesses with up to 50 employees. The year 1999, at least budgetaryly, is no longer far from us. And I recognise a problem here, because I see in the 1998 budget that the authority, which, I suspect, will have to do with these agendas in some way from the Ministry, namely, the labour inspection, has not been personally taught higher. Nothing touched. It may already be that post-explosion will take place in the labour inspectorate in 1999. However, I suspect that this will not happen. I suspect that there is still a great pressure on the labour inspectorate, which means: We really want to limit labour inspection and not expand it! Mr Vergestnitsch! That you don't say, I don't wonder, but I assume that there will be this pressure. I would regret that the development of medical and safety assistance to the social partners' deliberations between the parties would fail if the results were not satisfactory. After all, in Article 6 we also included the passus: "If an employer tries unsuccessfully to use these services, there is no breach of his obligations." That is, if the Federal Government and the accident insurance companies fail to expand these services, then the companies are "out of the tailor". I thought that was wrong because – and I was once again straining the bow to pensions – a well-understood worker protection is an effective contribution against early retirement, against what is actually a problem in Austria: that we have a lot of people of high age who get sick by work. If not at last funds are pumped into prevention, not only by the Ministry, but also by accident insurance, if prevention is not expanded, then a part of worker protection in Austria collapses, then it will not be possible to achieve what you hope to achieve in the area of pensions, namely a decrease in early invalidity. And with that, if that were to happen, the part of the pension reform, which can still be seen positively, would also be at risk. I therefore take you into account, Mrs Minister, that in the next few months this concern is indeed taken seriously that not only workers' protection, but also the other questions raised by me, such as unemployment insurance, are actually addressed somewhat more actively. This is not only for you, I know, but also for the social partners in this House.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e12836	Mrs. Hostasch has spoken. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e12857	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me first to comment on some of the questions raised in the Chamber before I make some fundamental comments on the budgets that are now under discussion. With regard to your questions, I would like to point out that at our joint meeting in the Committee on Budgets we have already been able to discuss a lot of questions in detail, and I hope that the Members of this House, whose questions could not all be dealt with in the committee meeting, will also have a written answer which I already have all the answers that have been submitted. This has made it possible to clarify many open questions, and this is quite timely and, as I hope, satisfactory for you as well. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, he referred to the question of the rehab centres and also the organization within social security. I can inform him that the contract to evaluate the implementation of the organisational analysis, which was then carried out by Häussermann and on which measures were also decided in this House, was now awarded to KPMG. The results of this study are now to be expected to see to what extent further organisational or legal steps must be taken. Of course, I will inform you about the results of this study in good time. I just wanted to tell you that this study has now been commissioned. As regards the question of early pensions and also the various statements made in this regard in the last few days in public, I would like to point out that we know, ladies and gentlemen, that, due to demographic developments, the people of the strong birth ages 1938 to 1941 – and below are a very large number of men – in the next few years the 60. As a result of the automatic demographic developments, the number of early retirement pensions in the sense of early retirement will naturally increase among men. This does not mean, however, that this is an exceptional situation. In the last debates, we agreed that we must strive to make use of retirement before the 60. To limit them in a socially acceptable form to 60 years of life. This is the first time that we have been able to make progress in the field of health policy and labour market policy. I would like to thank you for having been able to decide on an extensive package of measures in this area in the last week, and I am convinced that these will be successful in the next few years. The question of the employment summit was also raised. A joint meeting of the Finance and Labour Ministers will be held on Monday as a preparation for the employment summit. Austria has already had a very offensive, very committed and, as I believe, very successful negotiating position during the discussion in Amsterdam, and the Austrian initiatives have succeeded in achieving a further development in the Treaty in terms of employment orientation. The government will fully support the Commission's initiatives. We have developed a positioning together with the social partners because it is important that we share a common line with the social partners. It is the economy that has to provide jobs that policy can only create the conditions for doing so. There are measures to achieve higher employment and to reduce unemployment at the operational level, including in the economy. Close cooperation – both at national and European level – between governments and social partners is essential, and we will also be represented accordingly in the discussions in Luxembourg. On the other hand, we are also very open to the view that there must be clear objectives, but also clear rules on the form of action to be taken, so that the national states can then achieve the goal of higher employment and lower unemployment from these various set of measures, which are to be decided on, their national strategies, and with this policy mix, as we call them, of achieving the goal of higher employment and of lower unemployment. We will also try to ensure that there are quantified targets and that it is clearly defined in the direction in which the national states should implement the quantified objectives. I am confident that we will find partners for these positions, but I am sufficiently realist to know that this offensive form of employment policy at European level is not carried by all countries, not by all EU Member States in the same way. I know that there are countries which are very reluctant to support this position, but I am convinced that negotiations will succeed in making clear progress on the results of Amsterdam next week. I would particularly like to thank the social partners, particularly our employees' representatives, for their dedicated cooperation, but also for the fact that European trade unions will be expressing their concerns by means of a very clear demonstration next week, thereby also supporting the positions of those governments who are expressing their views. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Dear Mr Kier! We have been able to discuss many times in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the questions you have raised. I would now like to give a very brief opinion on your concerns about the various figures and assumptions. It is always necessary to see at what time the data was given and on what forecasts the specifications were then defined. Some of the things you mentioned were based on the Wifo data from 1995 or on those from the beginning of 1996. These were, of course, corrected when we received more up-to-date data from the Economic Research Institute. For example, the budget data for 1998 are based on the latest forecasts of the Economic Research Institute available to us. I think it is understandable if you are always oriented to the same requirement. If a renowned economic research institute is mistaken in the assessment or there are developments that do not comply with these assessments, it is difficult to make policy responsible. The future is not always predictable in all details. Therefore, subsequent corrections should not, of course, be excluded. I should also like to return briefly to the question raised by Mr Leiner, who has touched on a very important issue in itself: the impact that the LKF system now has on the entire structure of health care. Without addressing the details now, I can inform you that a control group has been set up, which closely observes what experience has been gained, apart from the experience already gained in Vorarlberg, in order to identify where regulatory needs have existed or will arise, and that we can receive a report regularly in the Federal Structure Commission and follow up on developments accordingly. I had the opportunity to discuss this question with the national social partners of our federal states in order to get feedback. Those responsible in the countries have a better possibility of observation than we have from the position of the federal government. I would like to stress that it is very important for me that the new settlement system should in no way have any negative effects on patients, but that full quality assurance should be ensured both in the stationary and in the extra-mural sectors. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to say a few words about the comments made by Mr Ollinger. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Let us take a look at the legal situation, see what the legal structure is, what is the task of the labour market service, as well as its decision-making and its political responsibility, and consider the tasks and possibilities of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Labour in this context. My task is to provide the labour market service with guidelines on the direction of employment policy initiatives, i.e. to develop a labour market policy programme. The task of the labour market service is to implement this policy in the institutions, according to their own directives. There is a very autonomous decision and an autonomous responsibility there, and I do not think it right to intervene in these decision-making processes. I don't even think it's possible to do it legally. There is a legal structure which has been decided by this House and which has also been so politically wanted. As far as the transfer of accident insurance is concerned, I believe we have been able to clarify in interim remarks that it is also apparent from the budget documents that there is no transfer from general accident insurance to the budget or elsewhere. The answer to your question, as far as I can recall, comes from a time when the maximum contribution base in social security was still intended to be increased to 45 000 s and to use these disproportionate revenue resulting from this preferable increase to cover other budget chapters. Since this increase has not been achieved – and it was relatively soon recognizable – there has also been no retranslation between AUVA and other areas. Dear ladies and gentlemen! On the issue of active labour market policy: We have budgeted a higher amount in the 1998 budget for active labour market policies. This amount is also intended to provide sufficient resources for co-financing under the ESF. I believe that those labour market policies you have decided to help us achieve even more employment effects in active labour market policies. Maybe an uninteresting number of your information: In 1996, active labour market policies enabled unemployment to be reduced by 0.6 percent. For example, we have also achieved that, as part of the evaluation of the European Union, best-practice measures are included in the measures we set in Austria. This also gives rise to recognition of a labour market policy that can be achieved internationally and successfully. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! It is a need for me to refer at least to two notable points in the field of health. Financial resources for vaccines have been significantly increased in the health budget. [[Complementary of the Abg. Dr Gredler.]] Thank you. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Dr. Rasinger.]] Thank you. Who else? [[Congratulation of the Abg. Forbidden and some other representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] But they are not the target group for which there has been this increase. It is now planned that, together with the countries and social security, all vaccines will be made available to all children until they leave school – and you have been in public vaccination for some time beyond this phase. [[Rejoicing]] You will find the appropriate precautions under the 17/208 budget approach. We therefore have the opportunity to fully follow the vaccination recommendations of the Supreme Council of Sanity and WHO, and thus have a truly excellent instrumentarium also for preventive medicine. I am particularly pleased that it has succeeded – and since the main association of social security institutions fulfils a very important task – to also include the main association of social security funds in this vaccination concept, which will also take over part of the costs and ensure that the vaccine can be provided at very favourable prices for public vaccinations. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: From the domestic doctors!]] We will start with this vaccination concept in 1998. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to point out something very encouraging in health policy: Additional resources for health care have been provided in this budget. It is an honest need to thank Mr Rasinger for this. It was the engine that succeeded in providing 100 million schilling annually for the Health Promotion initiative. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] This amount is intended to build up sustainable programmes and also structures and to develop services close to the population in order to operate health prevention, prevention, information and information in a holistic sense. There is a draft law on the implementation of this political objective in consideration, and I will try to ensure that this draft law is forwarded to Parliament this evening. It is also planned that the implementation of this initiative "Health Promotion" will be located in the Health Austria Fund, which will provide us with the necessary organisational structure and the necessary framework conditions. I am actually quite proud, as I say quite frankly, to be able to report to you in times when it is important to deal with the budgets very sparingly, especially in the matter of health policy of two important additional performance components – especially the just-called 100 million schilling – because it is not just a one-time budget approach. I think you will also be happy to take this together. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! In principle, let me say with a few words that, with all the knowledge that the social budget is one of the largest budgets in a state budget, 71 billion schillings come, 41.9 percent for social security from the budget chapters 15, 16 and 17 for labour market policy 34.6 percent, for the care money 9.9 percent; we have total expenditure of 169 billion schilling or almost 170 billion shillings and revenue of 58 billion shillings, which means we have a very large share of the entire budget – yet we think that we should very strongly stress that a social budget is a very productive budget, that a social budget is not a burden but a booster for the government budget, because in this way the demand of the population towards the economy is stabilised. It will also ensure social security for all individual risks and concerns, and thus we can also achieve social peace in our country and cohesion in society. I think it is important for this budget to be able to implement improvements in spite of economic activity and to achieve overall maintenance of the overall level of performance. I would like to thank you in advance for giving this budget your approval, which I expect.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e12953	The next item is Mrs Buder's speech. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e12971	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to follow up on the statements made by the Federal Minister for Health and Health, especially in the field of health care, since it is still my opinion that prevention is better than healing. Already in the Government Convention of 11. In March 1996, it was stressed that health promotion and health care were of high importance. Today, the 1997 health report, which covers the period 1993 to 1995, has been sent to us and we will have an opportunity to discuss it extensively in committee and here in plenary. But not only in the past, the precautionary sector took on a high priority, even now that is the case. For example, the 1998 budget provides for a total of 272,671 million schilling, which is around 116,2 million schilling more than in the previous year. From this quite remarkable increase we can see that, despite the prevailing austerity of the Federal Minister and of us, a commitment to health care is being made. Ladies and gentlemen! I am glad to have heard today and also in the Committee on Budgets from the Federal Minister that there is a new comprehensive vaccination concept for children from birth to the end of compulsory schooling, based on the recommendation of the Supreme Council of Sanity. This vaccination concept is implemented in cooperation with the countries and with the main association of social security institutions, and it is ensured that parents and children do not grow up in the proposed vaccinations. Some 100 million schillings are available in the 1998 budget for the vaccination of a birth year, and another 55 million schillings are used to close existing vaccinations. It is also important for me to mention that from April 1998 there will be a fivefold vaccine. Vaccines may now object that there is no child paralysis in Austria. – This statement is true, but child paralysis can be reintroduced from other European and non-European countries at any time. Since only vaccinated persons are protected from this disease, experts will take the 4th place of the vaccination. Month of life recommended. WHO experts believe that a new vaccine could eliminate the polio virus by the year 2000. In the case of tuberculosis, too, it was thought that one had this disease under control and that there was no longer any more or less of it. But now, through global tourism and the use of drugs, it has again spread this disease, and we in Austria had to complain of the death of 101 people who died of it in 1995. There is a need to take care of it again and again, and it is not enough if our children reach the age of 15. ......................................................................................................................................................... Adults are also called upon to undergo the refresher vaccinations on a regular basis. Especially when travelling to distant countries, it is important to ask your doctor if certain vaccinations are recommended, and you have to undergo these vaccinations in good time to protect yourself from serious diseases such as cholera or typhoid. Ladies and gentlemen! Since I come from Styria, i.e. a wooded area, I would also like to point out the tick protection vaccination again and again. Only this vaccination can protect against the consequences of tick bites. In all vaccinations, of course, sufficient documentation on vaccination is necessary so that the bodies concerned in the Ministry of Health can also use these data and take the appropriate measures. I would like to talk briefly about the mother-child passport. As a result of the abolition of the increased birth aid, Mr Leiner has also mentioned it, an average reduction of 10 per cent in the use of the mother-child passport examinations has occurred. Regionally, this decline is different. In view of this, the Federal Ministry of Health, together with the Federal Ministry of the Environment, Youth and Family, and in cooperation with the Austrian Medical Chamber, will launch an information campaign to highlight the importance of this precautionary measure. I believe that parents and mothers must be told again and again that they are not only concerned, if there are financial rewards, about the health of their children and their own health, but that this is their own personal task. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Like Mr Leiner, I welcome the initiative of the Federal Minister for Health Promotion, and I am very glad that she has also supported Mr Rasinger. This law was passed in the Council of Ministers this week, and we will hopefully be able to decide in December here in the House. 100 million Schillings will be made available in 1998 to influence the development of health promotion in the long term and sustainable. This will be achieved through a broad public awareness of diseases, information on preventive programmes and a healthy lifestyle. Target group-specific measures focus on children, young people, old people and chronically ill. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that young people, but also adults, should be stabilized in the awareness that they are careful about their health and not a addiction, whether it be alcohol, tobacco, drugs or sects. To counter this is not only the task of politics, but also the parents, teachers and all of us, the whole social environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e13050	The next speaker is Mr Pumberger. 10 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e13071	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If the Federal Minister or the health spokespersons of the Coalition Party have now been listened to, one had to gain the impression that the High House had become entrenched in what is going on out there in the hospitals, in the medical practices and in the care of the patient. That's all right with you, Mrs. Federal Minister! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The health speaker of the SPÖ Guggenberger sings a hymn of praise on the reduction of infant mortality and believes that it is the lowest in Europe. The fact is that we are just below the average in the European area and that the abolition of the birth aid is a fear of an increase in infant mortality. With these radical savings, they risk that the infant mortality rate will rise again! He also said that there are no problems at all with regard to the willingness to call. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The law of working time and the willingness to call were two things that were decided between each other. However, the working time law for doctors in hospitals is not executed in many places. The number of doctors in the hospitals continues to be low, and the services from noon to noon are provided by the gymnastics who are not entitled to provide independent services under the Hospital Law at all. Patients have to take care of this. Mrs. Federal Minister! Where do you live? Once you've been to a hospital, have you once had the "enjoy" as a patient that your acute event was treated by a gymnastics doctor in the afternoon? – However, you will have the privilege of being treated at night by a specialist or a professor in an emergency, but not the normal population, and this is a scandal! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Marizzi.]] To save on health insurance funds: It has been said, in line with false loss forecasts, that the health insurance companies will make 2 billion schilling deficits in 1996. The Federal Minister has been surrounded and convinced by the main association, as well as the other politicians of ÖVP and SPÖ. Then came the savings package, there was an increase in the recipe fee, the "sickness tax", the increase of contributions for pensioners and so on. In fact, however, the deficit was only 400 million schilling. Another savings package has been chained, the patient is hardly paid anything, and in 1997 you make 1 billion schilling profit. I could show you hundreds of examples of how these 3 billion schillings are saved to the patient. I would like to give you an example, Deputy Hundreds, now: A patient of me, cross-cut, 39 years old, has to catherate himself three times a day because of a neurogenic bladder emptying disorder. He needs to do this because the most common cause of death in cross-circumstances is infection of the urinary tracts and, as a result, failure of the kidneys by kidney infection, as far as possible sterile conditions, such as sterile single-gloves. Until now, they have been paid inadvertently. ==References== August, therefore, after it was announced that the health insurance scheme will make a profit of a billion schilling this year, the Landeskrankenkasse Oberösterreich wrote to the patient, Mr. B.: From now on we no longer have the possibility to take part in the cost of the single gloves. [[Abg. Madl: Incredible!]] With friendly greetings. One of these gloves costs to say and write, Mrs Bundesminister, 1.62 S! However, the checkout risks a fatal kidney infection in the cross-sectional patients because it is no longer able to correct its budget due to savings measures in its own area. You save on the back of the patients in an insatiable way that is no longer represented by anything! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! With regard to preventive medicine, Mr Rasinger is right with his request for a preventive fund. I congratulate you on that! However, Mr Rasinger had a very different idea, and he did not want to continue to burden the budget with a downturn from the import turnover tax on tobacco products. Mr Rasinger, as he used to be, was very often oriented to American conditions, and this time he is quite right with that. He carried on to Austria the idea of an extrajudicial comparison in the US with the tobacco industry and agreed with the health speaker of SPÖ and his health policy colleague Leiner. They mean: It would be a good thing if we had this also in Austria if we could turn off 50 growers at the expense of the tobacco industry per pack of cigarettes, which would total more than 300 million schilling. – That would be the triple of what you have now created with the preventive fund of 100 million schilling. A motion for a resolution by Mrs Rasinger, Mr Leiner, with the support of Walter Guggenberger, the SPÖ's health spokesperson, was drawn up in the draft. I have written this very good draft word for word, except once, Mr Rasinger, and I intend to present this draft as a motion for a resolution. Mr Rasinger! Now you can show the flag with your party, the ÖVP! You have discussed this together, even if you have been abandoned by the coalition partner. You can now decide with our help – or with your help – these 300 million who go at the expense of the tobacco industry and not at the expense of taxpayers. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This concept was developed by Rasinger and Leiner, and the health speaker of SPÖ supported it in his press service. It thus corresponds to the will of all; the FPÖ is in this case closed behind you. That is why I believe that in this case we can receive your approval, except for your own ideas, without you having to have a bad conscience. But I don't believe that, and I don't think so! I believe that you are trying to express something that you once put in your head, in the sense of precautionary medicine. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! There are many sins in health care. Finally, Mrs Federal Minister, I would like to point out the disability magazine you may have read. Heading: "Pleasant money, milk cow of the nation." – This means not the Federal Minister, but the care money! A billion schillings are saved in the care money alone in 1997, 500 million were saved in 1996 and on the back of the disabled in Austria! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I call for an annual valorization and not a limitation of the care allowance for the future! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e13188	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Pumberger has been sufficiently supported, submitted and is under negotiation. Mr Rasinger was next mentioned. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e13212	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! My dear! Ladies and gentlemen! I would first like to refer to the comments made by Mr Guggenberger. He said that the OECD gave us much praise. That's right! Especially on the price-performance level, we can be proud of the many, many employees in healthcare, doctors and sisters who work at relatively low prices. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Now on the subject: A problem of health policy is always the galoping progress. Today stands for example in the "Kronen Zeitung": "New Hope for AIDS Disease." Do you know what that means? – Among other things, of course new costs! ==References== Life-years need to swallow three medications daily until the end of his life, then he rejoices that he may continue to live, but it costs a lot for health care! – In America this would be impossible! This week alone, there were three innovations that mean high health costs. According to German estimates, perhaps 100,000 pain patients in Austria are not adequately cared for. If we want to take care of them better, that means extra costs. Furthermore, there is the new anesthesia gas Xenon, which is much more expensive, but makes the anesthesia almost uncomplained and above all riskless. But it costs much more, as has been said. There is also a drug that is much better suited than aspirin for stroke prevention, minus 19 percent strokes. In this context, I ask the ethical question: Can we keep this drug away from the patient? - No, probably that's not possible! Clopidogrel. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: What's the name of this medicine?]] The challenge is that health care needs to be made so fit for the year 2000 that we create the old-age, the service-laws and the legal challenges. – Mrs Haidlmayr! I very much appreciate you, but with health practitioners at the university we will certainly not make it. I would like to deal with the two reforms this year, the LKF system and the various plans. Mrs. Minister! I must contradict you: By 5 to 10 percent, the LKF system has brought more hospitalizations, in which we have been world recordrs so far. Secondly, so-called point optimization programs are increasingly being used, which I call a diagnostic flaw. Thirdly, it distorts international statistics. If only diabetes and peripheral arterial clot diseases bring points, but lung cancer does not, then in short or long time all statistics on which we are planning will no longer vote. Fourth: It comes to a selection towards surgical surgery, stroke patients, on the other hand – as I hear – bring fewer points. We need to think very carefully whether we should not adapt quickly in this area! On the plans: I don't think anything about plans – that's what I say everywhere; they remind me of the eastern block – because they are constantly overrun by development. My experience in connection with the large-scale device plan has confirmed that very thing. By the way, Minister Seehofer abolished the plans. I think we should make faster arrangements on the part of the Ministry and health insurance. According to today's issue of the "Salzburger Nachrichten", Mr. Altlandesrat Maier has requested reforms which you have also announced in the preface to the health report. He makes it harder and believes that if the reform ceases, it will be necessary to rationalise medical services. Finally, we should address the development of the household medical system and the outpatient care system. – I can only join this! Outside the hospital, the density of health insurance professionals is only half as large as in Germany. I don't think that's the only thing about jux and brilliance. Prevention must also be extended urgently. I think we're going to get a good deal forward in this area this year. I, of course, give you my party's hand in one - as you call it - comprehensive reform, I call it real reform, so that it does not come to a two-class medicine in Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e13256	The next item is Mrs Klara Motterzu word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e13280	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Pumberger! I think it's too far if you bring a female minister together with a "mold cow of the nation", even if it wasn't directly related to her. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on representatives of the SPÖ.]] I do not know if Mr President has heard that. I believe that the fact that you are using this expression in this context is enormous! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mrs. Minister! I would like to join They shall: Unfortunately, I don't have Mozart balls with you, but I still want to hand you a sugar. [[The speaker presented a bonus to Federal Minister Hostasch.]] [[Federal Minister Hostasch: Thank you, Mrs Deputies!]] For it was really beneficial how you answered all the questions in the committee and how you answered all the questions in writing. They were a glorious exception! [[New congratulations to the Liberal Forum and to representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say, because this is also common in budget debates, on the occasion of today's health and budget debate, that there are fundamental points for discussion. Ladies and gentlemen! In recent years, people in this country have had to get used to the fact that for one of the highest goods - as is repeatedly found in surveys - health, less and less money is being made available. At the latest since the combination of the health resort with the social resort, the idea of the 1970s has been finally put to grave by a Ministry of Health, equipped with competence. Notable social rightsists claim that the involvement of the Ministry of Health in the Ministry of Social Affairs is based on a fundamental error. The basis of this problem lies in the false construction of the ASVG. This law combines two types of insurance that have little to do with each other. The health insurance is of course a typical non-life insurance, while the pension insurance essentially belongs to the category Life insurance. Because of this difference in nature, it would be necessary to recast the ASVG and replace it with two laws, namely a Health Insurance Act and a Pension Insurance Act. The implementation of these two divisions would consistently be carried out in two different ministries. The reason why this reform has never been addressed lies in the historical development which has resulted in social security becoming a matter dominated by the trade unions and the social apparatus has developed over the past decades into a system of power which is seeking its own in our Republic. The fact that these forces today represent a reluctance to a reform, in the very sense of ultra-conservative, has only recently required people in that country to know all too clearly on the occasion of the resistance to the so-called pension reform. The fact that it has been powerful at all corners and ends in the social and health systems for years, however, does not interfere with the system holders. For if the money is missing, the contributions will be increased once again, for example by introducing the health certificate fee, or benefits will be reduced, as in the case of birth aid, or benefits such as the care allowance or the care allowance will not be adjusted to inflation. Ladies and gentlemen! A whole collection of such measures meets us in this Federal Finance Act, at least as far as health and social matters are concerned. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Federal Minister! Since it is said from this point of view that Austria has one of the best health systems in the world, including you, Mrs Minister, just recently said this at a meeting of the Committee on Budgets and drew on the OECD report in 1997 to support this statement, I would like to remind you of some of the facts in this report. The highest rates of increase are health expenditure, an annual increase of 8 to 13 percent. With real health expenditure of more than 9 percent of GDP, we rank one in Europe, with the lion's share of hospitalization. Prices for medical services are on average 20 percent higher than the EU level. And it is particularly striking that the prices for professional services in hospitals are much higher than for the same services in the established area. The OECD has made this point that the established area is probably less protected than the stationary one. I think that's a striking finding! A proof of this: The hospitalizations continued to increase after the introduction of the new LKF system, and now every fourth Austrian is sent to the hospital once a year. – In turn, this means rank one in the EU. A report in the "Salzburger Nachrichten" last week should give thought. In it it was to read how the hospitalists use the trick of point optimization. A secondary diagnosis, which brings more points than the original indication, is used to calculate points. Patients wake up after surgery in intensive bed because there are more points for it, say: more money, there is. Or: Patients are released before the weekend and re-injected on the following Monday, because there are no points on the treatment-free weekends. – This can be read in a serious daily newspaper! - So far, so bad. The fact is that all of these benefits have not been subject to the competence of the Federal Government since the existence of the new Health Insurance Act, and not to that of the health resort, but to social security and to the countries as a whole. In the future, the Federal Government may only make its federal contribution to hospital financing without any means of influence, and that is, ladies and gentlemen, according to the 1998 Federal estimates, 6.2 billion schilling! Ladies and gentlemen! It is to be doubted whether the absence of a federal competence can effectively reduce the cost increases at the hospitals. I also blame the incompetence of the fact that the funds for real health care are modest. Following the radical reduction in the 1996 savings package, health promotion funds will remain frozen at a low level in 1998. That means: Precautional medicine, AIDS aid and the fight against drug abuse, in order to name only a few areas, stay on track. Mrs. Federal Minister! Over 100 million schillings for the prevention you have announced today and for which you thanked colleagues Dr. Rasinger so politely, we will still be able to discuss this law in great detail on the occasion of the decision-making; as well as on the accommodation law. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to draw your attention once again to the massive criticism of the doctors on the occasion of the Austrian Medical Day in October, because findings such as – I quote – "quality at cost" or "cost pressure tends to lower the quality of health care" should give us all thought. We must therefore give serious thought to how we will be dealing with financing in the future without worsening the entire health care system. Ladies and gentlemen! We certainly need to do this, too, and I am convinced that experienced economists with visions that can contribute to health policy alongside other experts. To leave the future entirely to the social security institutions would certainly be the wrong way! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e13344	Mr Delegate Dr. Pumberger has reported an actual correction. Please, honourable Member, start with the facts you want to address to your correction.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e13368	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs Motter, in her contribution to the debate, said that I had brought the term "nation's milk cow" in connection with a female person. I am indeed correct in saying that I have not just brought the term "male cow of the nation" into contact with a female person, because I have emphasized that it is not the Minister's intention, but the care allowance, which was reduced by another billion by the Minister in 1997.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e13425	Mr Lacner. — (DE) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e13446	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! On the occasion of the health debate on 29 October, the European Parliament adopted a resolution on the future of the European Union. In November 1996, Dr. Povysil spoiled us at the beginning of her speech with Schöngeistigem. Mr Pumberger did it at a slightly lower level today, he tried to imitate the mouth, which he did not succeed very well. To return to the beautiful spirit: Schopenhauer was then tried to point out the importance of health for people and thus also a well-functioning health policy. He said: Nine tenths of our happiness are based solely on health. With her everything becomes a source of enjoyment. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, there is nothing to add to this quote, at least in the field of health policy. Ladies and gentlemen! This quote was and will be – and will continue to be – a driving force and motivation for the Federal Government, for the Austrians, to enable Schopenhauer's happiness to this great extent as well. Then: Not only cosmetic corrections, but also major reforms in terms of content have been submitted to Parliament for decision in the last two years, especially in the field of health policy. Mr Guggenberger has already mentioned a large part of these reforms, but I am willing to repeat them once again because it is really amazing what has happened in the last two years in the field of health policy. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: That's right!]] The often criticised funding of hospitals has been re-regulated, but with weaknesses, as I naturally admit. We know there is still a lot to do in this area. The MTD Act and the KAG-Novelle have been decided, a working time law for health professionals has been established and the Health and Hospital Care Act has been passed. Ladies and gentlemen! This is a true plethora of excellent reforms, which should also be appreciated in this House. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Rasinger.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Nothing is perfect, and standstill means step back – even in health policy. For this reason, the competent minister will continue to work ambitiously on the further development of the reforms. Mr Guggenberger has already suggested that everything will move in this area in the next few weeks, or years; in some areas it will take a little longer. For example, the provisions on health care services will be modernised, quality assurance will be provided, the hospital plan will be revised next year, the vaccination law will be adopted this year, an ambulance plan will be drawn up, and performance-oriented funding will also be prepared. Dear ladies and gentlemen, especially on the right side of the house, you will not all seriously claim that everything is nothing! Dr. Pumberger, who usually condemns everything in soil and soil: Faith Do you really think that in Austria anyone else is going to lose you? [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Listen to how the patients mourn!]] Doctor! I too am sometimes in the hospital, I still have a little ground liability, in which we are so strong. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Of course, the Austrians appreciate what is happening in this area. Your stupid political agitation is really not to shake anyone. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Five years ago the patients haven't felt that bad yet!]] They don't believe you! There is a great identification with this system. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: If all patients are stupid, then that's "irre"!]] – Don't worry, Mrs. Colleague, it's all coming. Mr Pumberger is a small prophet at all. On the occasion of the last year's discussion on the performance-oriented funding of hospitals, he prophesied that this work would not be accepted by the national leaders. But now it's signed. Dr. Pumberger! You should not act as a political prophesy, perhaps you would be better off dedicating yourself to a new discipline: coffee study. That would be about what your intellectual skills would be appropriate. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You should stay honest! Don't be so naughty!]] – Look, a rough clot belongs to a rough cone. Dr. Pumberger sometimes has to say a little bit. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That wasn't rough, it was naughty! You accused him of stupid agitation!]] Just a short while to my colleague, Maier. Mr Maier, the Council of State, now has a new activity and, therefore, other points of view, which should not be underestimated. Earlier, as the Health Council, he sometimes represented other theses. – In this sense: Thanks a lot.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e13560	Mrs Haidlmayr has now come to speak. The speaking time for their club is 9 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e13581	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The structural reform or the newly introduced LKF system was already praised and approved by the SPÖ and the ÖVP several times today as the century law. If one listens to the speakers, one would like to think that all the problems have been solved, everything is regulated, that we can now put our hands in the lap, because our health policy is practically alone, the costs are under control that we have achieved a very good and satisfactory state in this regard. Ladies and gentlemen! This is by far not the case, for it is clear: Due to the performance-oriented funding of hospitals, there has been a situation and abuses are being committed which we predicted by the opposition. No one took it seriously back then. Mrs. Minister! For example, we from the Greens have often pointed out that there will be massive problems due to the system of points, because there will be many different possibilities of perception and, above all, manipulation. And that has proved true. The point system, which currently calculates in the hospital area, is actually not a point system, but an optimization program. We know that in this area, in order to achieve a higher score, it is sometimes tried to indicate diseases which have not caused the patients to be supplied. I would remind you that last week was in a newspaper: "Krems, the city of the xxxkl Alzheimer". - I don't know who read this from you. This article stated that in Krems an unusually large number of patients – a number very far above the Austrian average – suddenly have Alzheimer's, so that they have landed in the hospital. Patients are charged according to the corresponding score. The fact is, however, that these people first only come to the hospital with stomach problems or any other complaints. However, this does not do much in the current system of points. That is why it seems to be saying: That may bring 2,000, 3,000 points, that is very little. The patient is already older, and so he doesn't check everything, so let's just turn things around! Let's say: He has Alzheimer's, and that's why he came to us, and at the same time he also has abdominal pain or stomach pain. – Thus, the system can be used up financially. That's the practice that's going on right now! Even the computer programs installed in hospitals to calculate this point system are pure optimization programs, that is, they are fully focused on optimizing this system. For example, if you type in the computer as a reason: "Immune inflammation", then the computer makes three to four suggestions, which one still takes in conjunction with it and how this could increase the score for the hospital. According to this system, hospitals are currently forecasting that the benefits for the patient have fallen, but costs are also increasing by 9 percent and more each year. Mrs. Minister! There is something wrong with that, and I think that should be checked very carefully. I believe that this should be done as soon as possible. The same applies to the large-scale device plan. The large-scale equipment plan provides very specific information on how many medical equipment or equipment must be located in the stationary facilities on the one hand and on the other hand in the outpatient and extra-mural areas on the other. There is a certain number of key people per sound so many people. This key number, of course, also applies to the city of Steyr. For Steyr, in this large-scale device plan, there is a concrete need for a computer tomography device in the extra-mural area. It has also been confirmed by the Authority that this device in Steyr is still missing. God has found himself thanks to two doctors who want to buy this device to carry out the investigations, but the health insurance does not give them an §-2 contract. It shall, in accordance with the procedure set out in paragraph 1 of this Article, give We do not need this device at all; it would only lead to more research. It is much more practical to send the people to Linz Hospital to make the necessary investigations there, or they are willing to wait seven to eight days, because then they may also come to Steyr Hospital for their examination. Mrs. Minister! The device plan was not intended for this purpose. Rather, the device plan should ensure optimal care for those patients who are not in the hospital. But the health insurance companies refuse the corresponding contracts. I would therefore like to call on you to accept the need for action in this regard and to conduct appropriate discussions with the health insurance companies in order to change this attitude and solve what has been promised. It is easy to see that the health insurance companies now suddenly write profits or are no longer in the red figures. It was said earlier that these surpluses should be made available for a vaccination campaign and that there are so-called vaccination packages. Mrs. Minister! On this occasion, please also remember that the pot for vaccine damage is higher, because the vaccination alone is not all. You must not forget the vaccine damage we still have year after year. Now to you, Dr. Rasinger. You're pretending to be a lawyer in school medicine. [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: (a newspaper keeping up) The healing practitioner!]] – Mr. Dr. Rasinger! I believe that those who want to work in the interests of the patients must be prepared to allow there to be something else in addition to classical school medicine. [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: But not narrow-track heil practitioners! Highest quality is important!]] One of these areas is the healing practitioners. Dr. Rasinger! They have, quite rightly, repeatedly pointed out that there is also a charlatanism in Austria and that this abuse must be stopped. I agree with you on every point. But there is a huge difference between healing practitioners and charlatans! Heal practitioners must take a training course and carry out an appropriate examination before an examination committee. This is how it is currently in Germany. [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: Do you know how the exam looks in Germany?! That's crazy! A whore!]] The difference between healing practitioners and charlatans can be recognized very well, and the patients also know who they are going to. [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: And 4,000 doctors are unemployed!]] Mrs. Minister! One area that has not been addressed at all today, although we have been talking about it for a very long time, is the indebtedness of patient insurance. This is put on ice or frozen. I think we need a law on this very urgently, and I very much hope that at the latest in January we will again deal with an indebted insurance for patients. – As far as the health sector is concerned. [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] Now to the disabled.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e13666	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I would ask for the final sentence. Your speaking time has expired.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e13681	Mrs. Minister! I told you last week: Those disabled people who live at home and receive care money have been called for by 15 percent of their income because they now have to pay social insurance but do not receive loss compensation through the care allowance. Mrs. Minister! I am looking for a corresponding valorization of the care allowance! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e13712	The next speaker is Mr Dkfm. Mühlbachler. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e13733	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! We are almost at the end of the budget debate. Allow me, as chairman of the Committee on Budgets, to make a few brief comments on this. I think we should consider how we can make future budget debates more efficient and more objective. This will undoubtedly have to start in the Committee on Budgets to find a continuation in plenary. I do not think it makes sense for us to deal with one chapter after another for days. [[Abg. May. Peter: This is not up to us, not the opposition!]] – Oh, Mr Peter, it is also the opposition to how a debate is being held. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] – I wanted to put that at the beginning of my remarks. Furthermore, I have the task of submitting two applications: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would also like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[See Annex to the Official Protocol]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to briefly outline the cornerstones of this amendment. In addition, the amendment is left to all Members. In the 1998 budget, provision has already been made for 250 planning posts. ==References====External links== A further 250 low-border posts are scheduled for September 1998 – in order to meet the Schengen maturity. The amendment is therefore already being tabled today so that there is a certain degree of security for the training of the border regions. Finally, let me point out one thing, ladies and gentlemen: In the context of the Internal Chapter, we are very sure that by increasing the number of border regions, we will increase the security of those national borders which offer certain uncertainty. However, the following should also be said: In spite of these efforts to increase the number of posts in the field of the interior, the assistance is essential. And that is why the area of national defence in the future should also be more closely taken into account in finance.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e13846	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Mühlbachler has been sufficiently supported, submitted and included in the negotiations. The amendment submitted by it is also sufficiently supported and has been submitted in accordance with business rules. It contains a fairly large part of the numbering of the establishment plan. For this reason I have, according to § 53 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure require that the amendment tabled by Mr Mühlbachler in his main points be duplicated and distributed. The next speaker was Mr Salzl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e13873	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, Mr Donabauer is not here. However, at the beginning of my speech I would like to address his so-called actual correction in which he tried to discredit an entire professional group, namely the veterinarians, by requiring them to be expensive in their fees. The veterinarians sit in a boat at this difficult time for our agriculture with the farmers and earn their money, especially in the wholesale practice. Ladies and gentlemen! It is significant that this accusation is coming from a multifunctionary person who, as the chairman of the social security institution of the farmers and as a senior official in the main association of social security funds at the expense of the farmers, deserves so much more than the average of the veterinarians; and this in addition to his reference as a Member. Mr Donabauer should rather take care of his own work, since he would have enough to do! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Under his supervision, the social security contributions have been increased several times to our farmers already at risk of existence. For many years, he has allowed our farmers to pay the double and triple tariff for the same medical service as those insured at the local health insurance fund. On the one hand, the farmers were asked to pay twice for the cash desk, on the one hand, on the increased contributions they had to pay, and on the other hand, on the 20 % of the amount they had to pay from the high rates. Over the course of these 23 years, many billions of schilling have been pulled out of the bag! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Call to the liberals: All ÖVP!]] Mr Donabauer, together with his ÖVP colleagues, agreed to an end to the subsidiarity of health insurance in the case of ancillary workers. It agreed that the minimum contribution base was increased by around 20 per cent and the contribution rate was increased from 13.5 to 14 per cent. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Peter.]] He agreed that there would be a deterioration in old age pensions due to reduced working capacity, which particularly affects farmers. It agreed that the new contract scheme would include all agricultural incomes other than neighborhood aid and assistance in the field of machinery rings in the social security obligation. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In addition, Mr Donabauer was still unable to reach a new and reasonable contract in the dispute with the Medical Chamber in order to protect farmers from further disadvantages in social security. He was unable to bring about a real harmonisation with the local health insurance fund, so that the 20 per cent self-retaining would not exist there either. This is to be replaced by a flat-rate self-retaining, according to the request made by the Federal Minister, by appropriate provisions in the regulations of the occupational health insurance system – the same is the answer. Ladies and gentlemen! This brings back a huge new burden on farmers. This statement is apprehensive in the desire of this Federal Government and in the desire of the various functional slenders for the agricultural population, and we liberals will therefore be very careful to ensure that non-existentally threatened agriculture is again asked to cash out.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e13939	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e13960	Mr President. Estimated government members! Ladies and gentlemen! LKF is a success – we can say that today. It is now about ensuring this positive development permanently through further measures in the field of ambulances, the establishment and large-scale equipment. As a result, the ambulance plan in the ministry is already very intensive in treatment, with the coordination between the ambulance and the extra-mural area being a major focus. Overall, efficient interface management in all areas will be necessary in order to organise patient care throughout, from initial care to post-care. The main questions are: How does performance come to be needed? How can supply and demand be matched? – This requires comprehensive documentation of performance in all areas in order to recognise changes and needs and also to define appropriate development strategies. The Ambulance Plan will be based on its performance documentation with the basis for the negotiations on the further financing of institutions after 1999. As the costs in the ambulance sector account for about 12 percent or 10 billion schilling, the main focus will not be on changing the funding, but mainly on providing patients with optimal care in all areas of performance. The extramural care sector as an important spiral relief measure is essentially well organized by the federal states. The group practices too, I believe, are discussive when they develop where there is a need. To extend the established area to a medical locality, i.e. to bring the performance closer to the patient. This is to be done through a greater incentive for doctors, but above all through less friendly business in the Pragmatization of doctors through the cash-as-you-go contracts. Finally, I should like to stress that LKF is a milestone in the financing of our health system and, in conjunction with the ongoing measures in the ministry already in concrete preparations, will ensure that positive development is stabilised and secured. Mrs. Federal Minister! We may grant you and your employees recognition for the dedicated work, but also desire strength for the implementation.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e13999	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Peter. The remaining speaking time for your club is 16 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e14021	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The lack of lust in this budget debate is probably characterised by the way in which the Federal Government deals with the tolerance of the Members of the Government with Parliament. And the lustlessness in this budget debate also reflects how inventive the 1998 budget is. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Bring us in the mood, Mr. Colleague!]] - I'm at it right now. You just have to put the paper away. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Ours can read paper and understand you, Mr. Peter! It's not that difficult!]] Mr State Secretary! Please send the following address to the Minister: It is good craftsmanship what you have done with the budget; good craftsmanship by really using all the one-time effects of budget technology by perfecting the budget tricks and by increasing revenue wherever it went. In this way you have made some sense of the self-indebted collapse of 1992, and you have achieved the Maastricht objective. It's a success! It is not a success that this budget really goes away from every form of future design. As the Minister of Finance himself has said, they have applied the art of the possible. That was the art of what these two parties could make possible, and you have found the smallest common denominator; the smallest common denominator between ÖVP and SPÖ. Sometimes, when I follow up the debates here, I wonder: Do you even have a common denominator? What to do After all, you are together in a coalition, if in many things you are just talking about what you like to do, but don't let your coalition partner do it? You may only really have the preservation of your party political power, your influence as a common denominator, your post- and influence awarding agency ÖVP/SPÖ. The future of our country, ladies and gentlemen, is increasingly taking place without politics. It takes place without you, without your huge government apparatus. The current of politics is simply rinsing you in front of yourself. They are no longer the designers, they are the drivers of economic and social change, and they are the drivers of your own representation of interests. This is perhaps the reason why it is really so unloving to discuss, for four days in Parliament, matters decided outside Parliament. Actually, what you do is a barrier to social change! I take it with the words of Professor Van der Bellen, who once said so beautifully: How proficient this country must be in order to be able to afford this government with this kind of policy! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dr. Novotny:... the final sentence!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Professor! You too are a wonderful left conservative, as climate has once called it. And that's where the legal conservatives sit. [[turn to the ÖVP]] This change from the industrial society to the information society would be so much to do! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: And at the speaker's desk is the genius!]] – You know, Mr. Khol, it's not the genius, but it's one that opens up to change and doesn't see it as a threat as you do. For you, everything that changes is a threat, and you protect yourself from it. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: I don't believe it!]] But they make the great mistake that you believe that even the citizens must protect themselves. That's what I'm so sorry about your policy. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Worldwide trade, global communication represent entirely new productivity. They do not respond with regard to the framework conditions. The Renaissance of personal service is at the doorstep. You are not willing to allow them through your framework conditions. The digital economy, new distribution channels, new jobs are created, a completely new world of work is created; it is created outside your legal barriers, it is simply created and simply without you. This is the inventiveness of your budget, which goes one step further. The rich Austrian society is getting into poverty traps through its policies. Your distribution policy no longer works, and you can only keep the welfare state alive through permanent emergency operations. The self-determined citizens of this country, who are actually the key to resolving the problem, will be dealt with by you by a rule of law. You have found no answer to all the pressing questions in this budget, which is known as the government policy cast into figures. You have also found no answer to the promises made by the Minister of Finance in his budget speech by the Minister of Economic Affairs in his speech on the economic situation and by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany in his government statement. They want to protect citizens from change, and they reach exactly the opposite. You, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, do not give us any more answers in this country. Sometimes I wonder if you're not the problem. Their solution has so far been to increase taxes and taxes. We have in Austria the highest tax and tax rate we have ever had. The regulatory thickness is still... [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: This has everything to do with health and social affairs?]] Thank you for the call, Mr Maitz. This is a problem of the Presidential and a problem of this budget, because you are discussing finances here and are discussing this budget together with the Social Chapter. This is your problem, because you have the majority in the presidential! So your policy leads us to the euro with all the hesitancy – I welcome it. Again, my compliment: You have achieved the Maastricht goal by hand – that is your achievement, I acknowledge it. But they lead us to an endless European competition. Did you really think of the Federal Government, the government parties, whether you have implemented the corresponding reforms in Austria, whether you want to address them today, or whether you have adapted the framework conditions to social and economic change so that we can survive in this euro area as we want it to be? The Austrian economy will exist in the euro area, because there is no other alternative at all. But what contribution do you make to achieving the Maastricht objectives in addition to a craftsmanship? This is for me the final assessment of your budget. It is a success: a success in fiscal policy, a success in presenting bookkeeping results, but not a success in the anticipation of social change in Austrian politics. In this way, it does not lead us further.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e14143	The next speaker is Mr Nürnberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e14164	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to remind you of a request from the Federal Minister in connection with a problem. - Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! You have certainly been full of commitment to the pension reform in the last few weeks and months, which you have been able to bring to a happy conclusion, but at this point I agree to remind myself that the Austrian Trade Union Confederation and its associated trade unions launched the Fairnetß Action in 1995/96. This action has the content of balancing the differences in social law between workers and employees. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] ==References== On September 1, 1996, Dr. Vrannitzky and Vice-Canceller Dr. Schüssel handed over more than 400 000 signatures to the German Chancellor at the time, and both assured us that we were committed to this reform. I should also like to say that the Fairneß action is contained in the existing Coalition Convention. I therefore agree with Mrs Bundesminister to ask you to start the work, but I should like to point out immediately because I see that you have spoken that what is prepared in your ministry does not correspond to the intentions of the Fairneß action. It is intended to create its own labour law for workers. We don't want to. We do not want to establish injustice, we do not want the workers to be fixed as their own group, so to speak. What we want is for the 1.3 million colleagues who have the status of a worker to be equally active in the Austrian economy in the future. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Blünegger.]] Therefore, Mrs Federal Minister, please take up a legislative initiative that contributes to the harmonisation of the two working groups in the Austrian economy.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e14211	Mrs. Hostasch has now been reported to speak. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e14233	Mr President. Appreciative Members of the Government! Mr Nürnberger, I can answer you immediately. The preparatory work on the implementation of this project, which is also important to me, has already begun to eliminate disadvantages in labour law. ==References== There was a consultation with all the presidents of the social partners' organisations on this issue on September. The considerations and wishes of the Austrian Trade Union Confederation have been made known, and opinions have already been received from the social partners of the employers' side. The documents of the department are based on those proposals prepared in my department by my predecessors. Of course, I am going to include in the negotiations those considerations that are brought in by the representatives of the workers' interests.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e14263	Thank you very much, Mrs. Federal Minister. Mr Dolinschek is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e14287	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! 17 000 S per year is the annual grant of the Federal Government for an ASVG-pension. However, two thirds of all ASVG insured persons must receive a pension of less than 10 000 S per month. At least 600 000 S per year, on the other hand, is the federal grant for a political pension. Federal Chancellor Climate advertised in a major campaign: "Lohn Hard Negotiations: Just Pensions for All." – In my opinion, cynical politics simply cannot be! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] De facto, the pension reform, the second within four years, brings no more than a break for the coalition, a small profit of time to get over this legislative period. A short-term revenue for a truly de-corate budget, which is being decided today, is being congratulated, and pensions are reduced instead of securing them for the future. Neither fair nor socially balanced benefit a few, namely those in the protected areas: in the Austrian National Bank, the social security funds, the Chambers and the ETUs. Terms such as harmonisation, calculation or cover remain keywords, meaning a push payment business for the majority of Austrians. The payment procedure for the generation contract is now being celebrated, although everyone is aware that at the latest in 2030, possibly even earlier, a pensioner will have to receive a pensioner – that is, quite simply a crash scenario. Trust and acceptance are simply not given on a leg when it comes to age assurance. The pension reform, ladies and gentlemen, became a piper! A pipe-creper also became the apprentice offensive, which the Federal Chancellor has fully announced. Around 6,000 young people still have no teaching place – for German Chancellor climate no problem. There are 3 000 open teaching places, he says, and 3 000 schools are easy to create by the Minister of Education. Thus, there are no longer any jobseekers, and climate comes with its full-bodied announcement that no youth will be standing on the street this autumn, not embarrassed. Of course, no youth who wants to complete a teaching is helping when he is put into a school class at the end of November. Instead of structurally reforming apprenticeships and creating modern careers, the problem is statistically solved and, in fact, pushed out by a year or more. Thus, the path of the senseless circum-doctor is to continue with the question of apprentices and pension questions.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e14339	Next word: Mr Mag. Merchant. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e14360	Mr President. Minister! High house! Mr Peter pointed out to the Federal Government that budgetary policy was extremely successful, he only meant that there were no future prospects in it. I would like to answer this: Is a falling budget deficit, compliance with the Maastricht criteria, the fact that a savings budget has been implemented without turning off the economy, not a good basis for the future? . If you do not see that the current problem in the EU is the 18 million unemployed and that the Austrian Federal Government is responsible for remedying this problem at the Luxembourg employment summit, I do not understand your idea of the future. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Minister for Finance has presented a budget which is a consistent continuation of the successful budgetary policy of the last two years. It is also extremely credible in this budget. The 1996 accounts have shown that the figures are being observed, and the 1997 budget implementation also shows that we are exactly on the agenda. In addition, economic data will probably be better than expected, and the income estimates for the 1998 budget are therefore to be considered extremely cautious. The Maastricht criteria are being fulfilled with this budget, which has also been confirmed by honourable Members Peter as members of the opposition. The deficit will be 2.6 to 2.7 percent of gross domestic product. It has been mentioned several times in the Committee on Finance that one-off revenue, one-off revenue and various budget tricks play a role in this. Well, the issue with the one-time redundancies is, of course, right, but that is openly so, and it is also a legitimate means of budget making. This time, however, one-time revenues are lower than they were a year ago. And with the "budget tricks" that are always spoken of, it is particularly about these 15 billion schillings, which result from the fact that tax assets are no longer recorded in the drawing up of the bill, but in the payment process. There are also standards within the EU for the creation of budgets. It is necessary to comply with these standards, but it is also legitimate to take advantage of the scope which these standards create. That's what the Minister of Finance did. It is necessary to ensure that the budgets are comparable within the EU Member States, and there are all possibilities available. Mr Finanzminister! They mentioned in the Committee's budget debate that the tax residues are currently 40 billion schilling: 20 billion schilling from sales tax, 8 billion schilling from income tax, the rest from other tax types. The main problem, however, should not only be tax residues, but also possible tax evasions. I can recall what I do anyway on this occasion, the study of the Federal Chamber of Labour, which clearly shows the following: If the income statistics were used to calculate the profits of some sectors of industry and business, one would come to profit under collective agreements. The fact that this is rather unlikely and can probably be justified by tax evasion is clear, and I believe that we should pay more attention to this fact. The same applies to the problem of double taxation agreements. Ladies and gentlemen! Despite the successful budgetary policy, there are, of course, some problems that arise: in tourism, for example, or in the construction industry. We have to make it clear, as we have seen in the Committee on Budgets, that the countries are financially well-informed. The financial compensation is not so unfavourable for the countries. You, Mr Finanzminister, have cooperated with this financial compensation in another role. In particular, the country budgets could give impetus to the construction industry – for example by favouring housing promotion and other things. We need to do a lot more so that the economy, which has so far been borne by export demand in particular, is more borne by domestic demand. There is a role – even if not alone – that the salaries and wages, wage and wage developments and profit trends are very different. The wage rate is falling, the profit ratio is increasing, and businessmen will also have to learn that high profits will only continue in the short term if demand does not take place. We must therefore do a lot to support demand for sustainable economic growth. Mr Finanzminister! The budget is obviously also difficult to deal with according to the opposition – at least one opposition party. Economic growth in 1998 is greater than in 1997. Exports grow disproportionately. The level of employment is the highest we ever had in Austria, and the international press praises the Minister of Finance and the Federal Government for this budgetary policy. I am also saying this because of the fact that we are already trying to prevent unconventions that may still be coming. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e14411	Next word: Mrs. Dr. Povysil. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e14433	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! "In words of cast boredom" – "The press" comments on the budget debate. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Don't be so self-critical!]] With a few exceptions, Mr Klubobmann, and with the exception of the Group of the European Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Party, which has tabled at least once in a while urgent questions on certain issues, I can only give the 'Press' full meaning. [[Congratulations on the liberal.]] What is happening here, ladies and gentlemen, is not a living parliamentaryism. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: It's interesting: the geniuses are always at the speaker's desk!]] There is no preparedness for any forward-looking change here, Mr Klubobmann. Of course, at the time of the debate, I can finally say my opinion on this subject: It's walled here. I am very excited about what you will do with our motion for a resolution, which has your approval and the approval of the SPÖ and which we are now submitting. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Reject!]] You can't refuse your own work! How's that going? - No one understands that anymore. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Oh, yes, they can do anything! They're Chameleons!]] Mr. Klubobmann, this is a wall. Here, three parties are permanently ignored by two and simply voted down by two-thirds – we will see it again in this request – not for objective reasons, not because of professional incompetence, but only because of the existing two-thirds majority. The work is not done in plenary, but in committees. What happened in the committees? – A maximum of two rounds of talks were allowed, then the Minister was exhausted. And the answers we got were inaccurate and elusive. I can demonstrate this to you on the basis of several written requests I have received and received. For reasons of time, I'll only report one to you. Minister! I asked you, among other things, in writing, how the exact presentation of the sum of transfers to the KRAZAF is or how the target grants are listed after the KAG and how these billions have been achieved. They say: A description of the distribution of federal funds at national or hospital level is not possible. Minister! That's wrong, that's just not true. All Landesfonds have a computer, which provides you with all one to two months of accurate data on the hospitals as well as all personal data. That's just not true, this statement is incorrect. I could quote further statements, I just don't have the time to do that. [[Federal Minister Edlinger: Thank God!]] All right, if you say so, let's go on! The next answer: On my question concerning the extra clinical burden and the billion-to-billion discharges you have to expect, you have told me: It should also be noted that in 1996 payments could not be made for technical reasons and this would lead to a shift to the following years. – That’s a elusive answer, it just can’t make any payouts, and that’s why we talk out quite clearly in the budget. I'm coming to the health budget. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: It's ringing!]] I would like to say to you: I have actually expected more efficiency by combining social and health, but this health budget has to be found first! For the budget posts have been regrouped, although Chapter 17 is still a budget of its own, but consumer protection, radiation protection, the secondary departments have moved to Mrs. Prammer and then to the Federal Chancellor's Office, to the Federal Chancellor's area of sovereignty. This means that these figures are not even really comparable. And this raises many questions. But just as you answered me, the opposition will be answered, and so it will be managed in ministries. Let us take a closer look at this budget. What does the budget allocation look like? – It can be seen that the health budget remains unchanged in 1997 and 1998. This health budget, according to the latest measurements of the Statistical Centre, is based on incorrect health data, Mrs. Minister. In your calculation of the gross domestic product and the budget, you have obtained false data. Is it really true, then, that if even the basics of the figures of gross domestic product are not correct, the burdens you impose on the population with this health budget are necessary? How does the entire budget look? – The health budget remains unchanged. Despite massive difficulties in the labour market, the social budget is lower. And what budget, do you think, ladies and gentlemen, has been increased? – The budget of social security schemes! That is precisely the budget of the organization which is constantly opposed to any reform of health care. Example: Refusal to create new planning sites and cash offices in Carinthia. Example: All contracts with the established CT institutes were terminated in autumn 1996. Example: "Stafmandat" of 50 S, when you visit a cashier. Example: 20 per cent self retention when you go to the election doctor. – All these are measures that directly ruin the established doctors and promote hospital fatigue. Minister! At least let's say it's right in the hospitals. The LKF was so praised. But what do I take from the press in Lower Austria? – In Lower Austria, the AZG has so far not been able to perform for doctors. And why can't you do that? – Because the financial possibilities are not available. But what am I reading in the press the same day? – Two foreign services of social security institutions are newly established. Cost: 30 million and 36 million schilling. 66 million schilling for social security, but no money for finally bringing the working time law into conformity for doctors. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Mrs. Minister is bored!]] [[Call the SPÖ:Ready time!]] I have enough speaking time, just no panic. [[Call the SPÖ:Just continue!]] No problem! Minister! The whole budget is the way I've described it now. Do you not notice that you are only doing one thing with all these activities, namely working in our arms? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Minister! I would like to conclude here with the words of my party observer – I think that is really a good and meaningful sentence; thank you for the worship of my party observer, Mr Cap; I am pleased that you worship my party observer in this way – who once said: [[Abg. Dr. Cap makes gestures of adoration]] [[Interlocutory calls to the liberals]] "Up!' said the spatz, when the cat carries him on the roof." Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e14597	Mr Koppler is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e14618	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Povysil has quoted a newspaper on the assessment of this budget debate and this budget week. Mrs Povysil – please don't take this personally – I mean, that I and my group appreciate it – one week, from Tuesday to Friday, with the liberals is enough! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I actually wanted to talk about the ÖIAG in this debate on the budget chapter of finance. But since none of the Members before me have discussed the ÖIAG, I will not do it either. Federal Minister! The best compliment for the ÖIAG is the fact that no one has dealt with it. I believe that we are on the right path to making the right policy at the ÖIAG in terms of privatisation and other matters. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would like to take this opportunity to express my warmest thanks to those responsible in the ÖIAG, as well as to the colleagues, especially the working group of the works councils, which has been carried out in a way that, as I believe, is very exemplary. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] [[Call to the Freeman:Possive or negative?]] In this sense, we are happy to agree to this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e14666	Next word: Mr Mag. Schreiner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e14687	Mr President. Federal Minister for Finance! Mr Koppler. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Koppler, for his excellent report. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister for Finance! I would like to deal with the revenue side, which is crucial to ensuring that the costs of 750 billion schilling can be met at all. At the first reading of the budget, we have already taken a great deal forward on the financial chapter, so I would like to focus on an area that is very concerned with me, namely the Tax Reform Commission and its proposals, which were published in a daily newspaper yesterday, on Wednesday. Federal Minister for Finance! I know that you have only given this tax reform commission a mandate to think about it. However, what is reflected in this article is a little alarming, should that be the reform approaches you want to implement in 1999 – we hope some time before. These are proposals that awaken between courageous horror and a little moderate, and I would like to give you, Mr Federal Minister for Finance, a few things to do with this. It contains such things as an increase in unit values – I can only assume: up to the transport value – which burdens the "small" house builder, causes an increase in the basic tax and, for agriculture, which we have debated this morning, it means ruin at all. I cannot imagine that a farmer who has a 20 hectar farm could live with it – Mr Schwarzböck, you should ask the Federal Minister for Finance how he imagines it. If, for example, a farmer achieves a proceeds of around 400 000 S in cereals and has a unit value of 200 000 S – I take an average farm in Lower Austria – but it is increased to an amount close to the transport value, which is about 2 million S, and the farmer has to pay 31 per cent of the income tax, then the taxes the Federal Minister of Finance wants from him account for 620 000 S, but he has only revenues in the amount of 400 000 S. Mr Schwarzböck! If this is the agricultural policy you want to operate with the Federal Minister for Finance, I say: Good night after a tax reform 1999! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister for Finance! I miss something in connection with this tax reform commission: Not a single syllable has been written about whether one dares to enter an eco-tax. In this way we could subsume the drinking tax, the municipal tax, which is described here as anachronisms. We could find a substitute for this in a moderate eco-tax, whose introduction is high in time. Federal Minister! I miss answers to the following questions in the reform approaches as presented in these newspaper articles: When do you finally want to reduce the wage tax rate and reduce the cold rate of progression so that you can return something to the taxpayer? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] When to Become Are you finally strengthening the equity ratio of entrepreneurs by having profits remaining for investments in the company reduced or not taxed at all? When will you finally introduce legal certainty in financial laws in this state, so that there are no more retroactive laws, because these endanger the company's location in Austria?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister for Finance! I would like to give you the following question: When will it be possible for Austrian taxpayers to pay less taxes – at a total tax rate of 45.7 percent?
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e14763	Next word: Mr Mag. Trattner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e14785	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Kaufmann, you praised a little too much. We have heard again and again in the last week that the budget experts have praised this proposal that even the budget expert, Professor Genser, has praised this proposal. To this end, I must say: In a convoluted package of more than ten pages, Professor Genser received only one praise from this Federal proposal, and that was at a moment when the Maastricht criterion was reached. [[Abg. Marizzi: Well, that's it!]] However, it criticises the increase in public expenditure from 1990 to 1998 in the order of 57.5%, the increase in taxes by 53.5 percent, while the increase in gross domestic product by 43.3 percent. It is a fact that budgetary consolidation, including criticised genetics, has been carried out primarily on a revenue-based basis; on the expenditure side there has been a dynamic, especially in the case of pensions. The only reduction in expenditure is that in public investment, which is currently felt by the economic location of Austria or is seen by the high number of unemployed. Federal Minister! In 1998, Genser also criticised the fact that there is no trend change; there is no trend change that would show how to improve in the future. No change in budgets is to be seen which would be linked to a long-term pressure towards expenditure reduction. Genser criticises that the Maastricht criterion has been achieved primarily by means of measures which can only be implemented once. Mr Finanzminister! It affects government debt management. In the case of government debt management, he says, one-off emission costs are too high in the order of 3.4 billion schilling, the amount of which has increased too much. It also criticises the high interest rates for long-term financing. There has been a change in the capital market: The interest rates on long-term financing fell from 8.7 percent in 1990 to 5.9 percent at the present time, but in the federal budget only a reduction of 6.8 to 6.54 percent can be observed. As you know, a hundredth of a quarter of the interest rate is 154 million schilling, so that every one hundredth and tenth percent points is a lot. The criticism is also that, as regards the structural budget deficit, there is no measure at all, or no improvement at all, that the structural budget deficit remains between 2.5 per cent and 3 per cent, so that the budget deficit is probably out of line with the first economic counterwind. What we particularly criticise on this budget is: We have worked primarily on measures which will only be effective once, with booking tricks that have been carried out, with enlargements so that you can achieve this Maastricht criterion on time, but for the future nothing positive has happened at all!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e14820	Next word: Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. Rest of the time of your club: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e14842	Ladies and gentlemen! We were quite surprised when, on the basis of the amendment tabled by Mr Magnifice. Mühlbachler and Ing. Gartlehner, who was introduced a few minutes ago, learned that the Minister of the Interior has pledged to the border army planposts for 1. ==References====External links== ==References====External links== This is in itself a very positive fact, and we really want to give this request our approval. My colleague, Mr Lafer, went to Mr Klubobmann Kostelka and asked him if he could not "get" on behalf of the Liberal Party on this amendment, just as a sign that we are also behind this amendment. While Mr Kostelka has said no, Mr Khol has voted in favour of it and, as is common for ordinary parliamentarianism, he means that Mr Lafer can "get out" on this request. Mr Kostelka said, no, he could unfortunately not agree to such a "Rosine Theory". I have to tell you honestly: I really don't think that's all right, deputies. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They complain again and again that the opposition, that we are not sufficiently cooperative, but I can't "get" the crocodile tears you shed if we don't agree, no longer take us seriously at all if you agree to a request that is really good, as it would be decent and fair.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e14883	Next word: Mr Donabauer. Still speaking time for your club: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e14904	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! High house! In this four-day budget debate, there were valuable contributions, critical remarks and different views. That may be. The government has presented a clear objective with this budget, and we will also follow that objective. The opposition may critically question, that is its good right; no problem. [[Demonstration of the liberals.]] The accompanying laws on this budget show those structures which are relevant and important for this change. During the consultations, the presence was different. It could thus be found that the Obmann or the leader of the largest opposition party was present for 3 hours and 10 minutes. Ladies and gentlemen! He's got a full salary, you can count on the hourly wage! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Where is he?]] It's from that party that always poses what's unfair, who likes to play with enemy images! You now have reason to think about where you are at home. In this discussion, it is also noted that the nerves are white; for example, Mr Salzl. In view of the limited speaking time, I do not have the opportunity to respond to all its inaccuracies and communities, only that: Yes, it is true that we have contributed to the change in agricultural subsidiarity, we also contribute to the changes in the medical billing process. We believe that this is correct, reasonable and socially justified. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] You would like to have war with the stakeholders, but we have an open discussion, put this discussion to us and will also come to the end. As you are talking about the double income of some of your colleagues, I can tell you: Read the law! These incomes are based on legal decisions, and all those who work – you always claim – have a right to receive money. We can show our work! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] At the end of this discussion, I would recommend that you: Back off your envy complexes at last, they're not bringing anything! [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Why are you so upset?]] Stop painting images of enemies, for with that you do not render a good service to anyone! I can also tell you: In this country, more is right than you would like to believe or believe – take it home! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] It is reassuring to know that this forward-looking, forward-looking budget here in this House in the interest of our country Austria is widely adopted. Perhaps later you will understand that you are not only wrong, but do not do a good job with your peculiar behavior in that country.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e14988	There are now actual corrections. First of all, Mr. Klubobmann's Dr. Khol. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e15013	Mrs. Dr. Partik-Pablé said that Parliamentary Khol would have been prepared to "draw" the liberals on the amendment tabled by Mr Mühlbachler to the service plan in the Ministry of the Interior. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Mr Lammer!]] – I oppose this statement. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Now you say no?]] I did not speak directly to the liberals, but I told Mr Mühlbachler: In this respect, I am in agreement with Klubobmann Kostelka, if they agree to the budget in third reading, because the application of a Rosin Theory does not exist!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e15067	Another actual correction is made by Mrs Salzl. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e15123	Mr President. High house! Mr Donabauer said that the liberals had a "leader". [[Ironic hustle and bustle with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I'm actually correcting: We have a partyman and a clubman, but not a leader! [[New ironic hustle and bustle at SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Where is he?]] Mr Donaubauer has also said that I would have spread with regard to him communities. – I’m actually correcting: I have not spread any commons, but I have just listed facts. [[Ironic cheerfulness with SPÖ and ÖVP]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: This is not an actual correction!]] [[further violent calls at SPÖ and ÖVP]] Even if these facts are unpleasant to Mr Donabauer because they have shown his failure throughout the debate, it is nevertheless the fact that they are facts.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e15216	I should like to point out that none of the previous statements have been acoustically accessible to me. I hope they were actual corrections. Mr Pumberger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, Mr President of the European People's Time left for your club, for you, honourable Member: 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e15266	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Provoked by the abuses of the Member and Farmers' Telephones Donabauer, I've been talking to you. [[Violent calls at the ÖVP]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Subsequent calls to the ÖVP.]] Mr Donabauer! We support the docking of the farm health insurance fund's tariffs to the Landeskasse. We support the harmonisation of the statutory health insurance tariffs, but not on the basis of the regional funding level, but on the basis of a uniform national catalogue of benefits and tariffs, and therefore we are not so negatively opposed to this amendment. However, Mr Donabauer, we do not support the fact that the Farmers' Insurance Fund is paying out little more than 800 million schillings, but that it has administrative costs for its health insurance sector of 340 million schillings and that the Farmers' Hospital does not want to reduce the administrative costs, reduce the number of health insurance officials, and also reduce contributions to the insured persons who have paid too high tariffs for years. [[Abg. Grabner: cashier of...!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I therefore call on you to abolish the health insurance sector in your social security scheme, to dock in the area of funds and to ensure that social fair rates are created for doctors and reduced contribution rates for farmers! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e15334	Mr Edlinger has now been reported to speak. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e15364	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I am really pleased that we have been able to trigger such great euphoria in this House with this budget in the final phase of the debate. [[Cheerfulness and applause with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Aumayr: Also in the population?]] I thank you very much for that. These lustful performances would not have been possible, I would not have brought in the budget. [[New cheerfulness and condolences with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make just a few comments now, although it would be appealing to replicate in detail the many remarks made in the course of this budget debate here in the House, but I do not want to exaggerate your time economy. [[Call to the liberals:Gern!]] But I am convinced that in the course of the implementation of this budget in 1998 we will have the opportunity, in many institutions and committees, to have detailed discussions, and I am already willing to predict with extreme precision that these figures, which I have presented to the House as the finance minister of this coalition government, will be presented to the House on 31 December. It will continue to be comprehensible and will be kept in detail on December 1998. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We have assumed that in this budget-making – I would just like to recall this with a few sentences – we are stabilising the very necessary and very important consolidation course, which was carried out with the 1996 and 1997 budgets. We have succeeded in creating a budget in a difficult time, which will also achieve those objectives which we have set ourselves. We have managed in the last three years to halve the budget deficit almost half. With this budget – together with the 1999 budget, which is available in a few months – we will be able to secure Austria's economic location, maintain Austria's welfare state – this is a very important area of government policy – and guarantee Austrian participation in the European Economic and Monetary Union. The task of the budget was, as I believe, to continue the reform of the public expenditure and revenue structure in the form of a brake on the dynamics of the most growing components in expenditure, without evading our European-recognised social system. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If, for example, Mr Peter meant that this budget was a budget of good craftsmanship, unless it was a budget in which all one-time possibilities and revenue extensions were used up, I would consider it a compliment, because it is not a shame to be a good craftsman. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If You said that there was a 'lustless budget debate' here in this House, I must say: I'm not responsible for that! [[Cheerfulness and applause at SPÖ.]] But if at the same time you criticise the fact that this is a 'imaginative budget', I would like to say in all modesty, ladies and gentlemen, that you can ask the Minister for Finance for everything, but please do not ask one thing: that he fantasizes. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the SPÖ and with representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I put forward a budget of real figures, a budget that also fulfils those tasks that we have carried out, but I would like to say the following – as a replica of the debate by Mr Schreiner –: I am not the editor-in-chief of the press, and I am therefore not responsible for articles that appear in the press, and I am not in favour of acting against papier soldiers you have set up, because it is not the goal of the Federal Government to carry out in detail those tax reform measures set out in this article or whatever. It is the task of the Tax Reform Commission - I have once answered this House sufficiently within one hour of Question Time - to propose a comprehensive tax reform by 2000, but not earlier, in order to carry out those tasks that are under discussion throughout Europe, namely to relieve labour tax burden, to review the issue of capital income taxation while at the same time initiating a continuous ecologisation of the tax system. That's what I'm standing for! I have announced to the House that in the middle of 1998 I will be able to comment and discuss first proposals from the Tax Reform Commission to the public. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that a comprehensive tax reform is not a game ball, a tax reform is serious. There are personal concerns in any change in tax measures, and people are not supposed to play with them. In my opinion, this is a very serious concern, especially if one considers tax policy to be also a shaping social instrument. I don't mean this class-warring right now. It is extremely important to be able to provide social answers to the challenges of the future. This is where globalized trade relations play a role as well as the careful handling of the resources of our nature. Take note, ladies and gentlemen, that I do not wish to discuss the fact that in the public, for whatever reason, you are trying to present things as if this Federal Government were planning to take out and implement individual measures that are being discussed within the Tax Reform Commission, and that is also a good thing, which are measures that farmers, domestic farmers or other honourable members of our society must fear. - It's too serious for me! I will present the concept if it is complete, and I would like to ask you, in all modesty and in all urgency, to give me the necessary time so that we can then have a serious and constructive discussion within the meaning of our citizens and the economic location Austria. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Two brief comments: Mr Mag. Trattner, I was quite surprised at what you read here, namely what Mr Expert Genser said in expert hearing. I didn't hear all this. He did not speak for so long that it could be printed on ten pages. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Trattner: (keeping a note in height) I have the protocol here!]] I have to tell you honestly: As a new finance minister, who for the first time felt the procedure of parliamentarism in his own body, I was so excited about the expert hearing – I admit it in all honesty. I know about political discussions, and I thought: Well, assessments can be resisted with certain arguments, because the political attacks on the budget have not been so serious! But in fact I must say that I have taken the overall qualification of the budget by the five experts as a compliment for the budget, as a compliment for this federal government. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] One last comment: Perhaps you, Mr Trattner, as a financial and economic expert in your party here in the House, can explain some facts to some members of your group. The ATW has been a listed company for several weeks. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] [[Call the SPÖ:Listen!]] It is absolutely impossible – I say this not polemically, but to your information – that this respectable House requires a private enterprise to pay what it pays in which fund. That would be just as if you were going to prescribe Billa to deposit funds into a fund. . I just wanted to say that to make it clear to you that such a request would not be implemented if it were decided. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I thank you for the discussion, and I will try to implement the budget in accordance with the approaches. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e15515	Thank you very much, Minister of State. No one has been reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. A final word is not wanted by the rapporteurs. We are entering the voting procedure. First of all, we are voting on the Advisory Group VII of the Federal Proposal for 1998. This includes Chapters 15 to 17 of the Federal Proposal in 841 of the Supplements as amended by the Special Report in 910 of the Supplements. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask for a sign to be given here. – This is the majority. Accepted. The vote on the motion for a resolution submitted to the Advisory Group VII and to the Advisory Group XI of the Federal Proposal will be submitted in accordance with § 55 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure shall take place after the third reading of this draft law. We now proceed to the vote on the guidance group XI of the Federal Proposal for 1998. This includes Chapters 50 to 55 and 59 of the Federal Proposal in 841 of the Supplements as amended by the Special Report in 910 of the Supplements and Chapter 57 in 910 of the Supplements. In the event of approval, I would ask for an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. We shall also vote on the text of the Federal Financial Act, together with the title and receipt in 841 of the Supplements, as amended by the Committee's report in 910 of the Supplements. In the event of approval, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. Finally, we are voting on the investments belonging to the Federal Finance Act, in so far as they have not yet been voted on. Deputies Mag. Mühlbachler, Ing. Gartlehner and comrades have tabled an amendment concerning Annex III – establishment plan. I am therefore going to vote on the establishment plan and, finally, on the rest of the non-coordinated investments in the Federal Finance Act. Deputies Mag. Mühlbachler, Ing. Gartlehner and comrades have tabled an amendment concerning Annex III – Schedule Chapter 11. In the case of consent, I would like to see a sign of this kind. – This is the majority. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the remaining parts of Annex III, which have not yet been voted on, as part of the Committee's report, taking into account the correction of the print error. If I agree, I'll look for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. We now proceed to the vote on the rest of the investments which are not yet in line with the Federal Finance Act. These are: the summary by groups and chapters of Appendix I and Appendices Ia to Ic (total summaries) taking into account the amendments resulting from the special reports in 910 of the Supplements, the summary according to groups and chapters of Appendix II, Appendix IIa – Summarial breakdown of the economic compensatory estimate, the Annex IV – Vehicle Plan as amended by the Committee Report 910 of the Supplements and Appendix V – Plan for Data Processing Facilities. In case of your consent, I would like an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. This concludes the second reading on the Federal Finance Act 1998, together with investments. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to give the draft law the same sign at third reading. – This is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. This adopted the 1998 budget. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the motions for resolutions which have not yet been voted. First of all, I will put to the vote the motion for a resolution on the consultative group VIII – agriculture and forestry – and then the motion for a resolution on the advisory group VII – social and health – and finally the resolution on the advisory group XI – finances. We therefore come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Wenitsch and Mr Comrades on the approval of the agricultural means of agricultural production. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Haider didn't agree!]] [[Call the SPÖ: Where is he?]] We shall also proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Ing. Reichhold and comrades concerning "no further burden on farmers' families". In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The Reichhold did not agree to his own request!]] We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Members. Barmüller and comrades concerning the lack of competence of the "Market Regulations" (SAL) councils in the case of animal welfare. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. [[Call the Liberal Forum and the Greens:Oye, oye!]] We now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Wabl and Mr Comrades on the revision of the Austrian Animal Transport Act – road. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Wabl and Mr Comrades on the abolition of EU subsidies for live animals exports. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Pumberger and Mr Comrades on the establishment of a precautionary fund to value healthy lifestyles and information on health risks. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Maria Rauch-Kallat, ing. Gerald Tychtlund comrades concerning EU refund for live animals exports and competence in the field of animal welfare. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. (E 92.) Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_1997-11-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00099_d7e15654	I would also like to say that in today's sitting, self-employed requests were made for 632/A (E) to 645/A. Questions 3315/J to 3342/J were also raised. The agenda is exhausted. The next meeting of the National Council on business communications and allocations will be convened at 8.03 p.m., which will be followed by this meeting. The sitting is closed.
