ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e3211	Ladies and gentlemen! I can ask you to take the seats. I'll open the 62. Meeting of the National Council. This meeting was convened within the time limit laid down in the Rules of Procedure on account of a business request of more than one-fifth of the Members. The official protocols of the 60s and 61s. Meeting of 29. In the Parliamentary Directorate, January was left unanswered and undisputed. For today's sitting, the following Members have been reported as preventing: Dr. Fekter, Dr. Ofner, Rosenstingl, Dr. Preisinger, Dkfm. Ruthofer, Mag. Barmüller, Schaffenrath, Mag. Kukacka, black goats, plate, dipl.-Ing. Dr. Doppelmüller, Koppler, Dipl.-Ing. Sad, Technic and Ing. Tychtl. Absence of mandate and fishing
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e3252	The Federal Electoral Authority has received a communication from Mrs Magistrate. Brigitte Edereron has renounced her mandate and Dr. Johannes Jarolimin has been appointed to the National Council in her place. Furthermore, Ms. Dr. Christa Krammerda's mandate, which on the occasion of her appointment as a member of the Federal Government under § 111 of the National Council's Rules of Procedure, was re-allocated. As a result, Mrs Verena Dunstaus has been expelled from the National Council. As the electorate has been issued, and by Dr. Jarolim and Dr. Krammer are present in the house, I will make the fishing immediately. After reading the vow formula and calling for her name by the female writer, the mandaters will have to do their fishing with the words "I promise". I should like to ask the rapporteur, Mrs Applebeck, for the reading of the vow formula. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e3291	"They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your duties."
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e3315	I very much welcome Mrs Dr. Krammer and Mr. Dr. Jarolim in our midst. [[General condolences.]] Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e3345	For today's meeting, the Federal Chancellor's Office on the resolution of the President of the Federal Government concerning the representation of a member of the Federal Government has made the following statement: Federal Minister for Agriculture and Forestry Mag. Molterer is represented by Mrs. Elisabeth Gehrer. I would ask you to take note of this. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e3375	With regard to the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer in accordance with § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the written communication. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e3512	I declare that the Federal Chancellor has informed me that he has the intention, in accordance with § 19 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure to make a statement on "Work for Austria" at today's meeting of the National Council. Mr Vice-Chancellor also told me that he also intends to make a statement on the "Employment situation in Austria". As a time for the presentation of these declarations, I set the beginning of the sitting so that they will be delivered immediately. On the other hand, are there any objections? - That's not the case. Then we'll do that. Following the two declarations, a debate will be held within the meaning of Article 81 of the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with a request made to me. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e3547	The President-in-Office of the Council agreed on the implementation of this debate as follows: A block speaking time of six "Vienna hours" is provided for, resulting in the following speaking times: SPÖ 90 minutes, ÖVP 84 minutes, Free 78 minutes, Liberal Forum and Greens each 54 minutes. It has also been agreed that speaking hours of other Federal Ministers, which should exceed 10 minutes, will be counted on the speaking time of the respective government group. – As far as this proposal is concerned. On the other hand, are there any objections? - That's not the case. This proposal has been approved. Declarations by the Federal Chancellor and the Vice-Cancellor
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e3574	Let's go into the agenda. I give the floor to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany to make the statement he wants. - Please, Federal Chancellor. Declaration by the Federal Chancellor on "Work for Austria"
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e3601	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Today, at the government meeting, Ms. Hostasch, on the basis of the data for the mid-February of this year, has been able to report a slight improvement on the labour market in Austria – we have fallen back to about 297 000 unemployed and are also slightly better than at the same time of comparison of the previous year. But I'll say straight ahead. There's nothing to beautify. At the end of January this year 301 983 people were without work in Austria. I do not need to explain in this House what this means by individual concerns and problems, but also by economic damage. This fact is a clear task for the Federal Government to speed up, strengthen and also take new ways to introduce new measures to reduce unemployment in Austria. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I will present to you today, in nine areas, concrete measures taken by the Federal Government to create work for Austria. It must be borne in mind that unemployment is the problem of industrialized countries all over the world today. We have heard about a similar increase in unemployment in recent days from Germany, Switzerland and other European countries. The causes of this are partly common: The halving of economic growth compared with the 1970s and thus the fall in demand also results in a decline in labour force. High real interest rates, which affect the expansion of investments and, of course, also restrict our scope for action over the interest rates of public debt, contribute further; in the end – that is a fact – an increased rationalisation pressure through increasing internationalisation and technological development, as well as an increasing supply of labour through demographic development and the increasing employment rate. However, there are also national causes and reasons for this, namely bureaucratic barriers which make it difficult for us to create jobs in new companies through business start-ups, and more. These are complex and varied causes, and they cannot be combated by a patent recipe. A patent recipe for an employment policy, from any time, is scharlatanery. Whoever pretends to own such a recipe deceives people and will have to make a critical assessment accordingly. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] The Federal Government has the necessary realistic and comprehensive measures that we will soon implement. We will do everything we can to ensure that Austria continues to succeed in investing in domestic and foreign companies. Remember that Opel Austria/General Motors announced a few days ago to invest almost 5 billion schilling in Austria. After a critical analysis, the competitiveness of our country has been identified and will invest here. That is why we will do everything we can to keep our highest economic asset, the well-trained skilled workers, the engineers, the commercial personnel further in our country, and ensure that they can develop here. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] We will do everything we can to be competitive in terms of infrastructure in Austria. It is not a question of removing necessary transport in surrounding countries, but of creating a high-performance infrastructure in transport, energy, telecommunications in order to obtain employment. We will have to do everything we can to make the economy easier in Austria, make it easier for companies to set up businesses, create businesses and find jobs. We, ladies and gentlemen, will do everything – and I think this is particularly important – so that we can also strengthen domestic demand. We will not make any policy that will make the rich even richer, we will make a policy that will ensure prosperity in Austria and demand for our products and thus ensure employment. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] We will do everything we can to avoid wasting valuable productivity by engaging in street and strike-ups in our companies. We will do everything we can to maintain social peace in Austria in the cooperation between government, employers and workers and the social partners. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] We have also undertaken to prove that consolidation policy and growth policy are no contradictions. Just one example: Nearly 100 billion Schilling interest rates are limited to the necessary employment policy for public debt alone. That is why we will ensure that we continue to consolidate consistently, and at the same time we will take all measures to promote employment, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] We will have to do this at national and international level. I do not think anything of politicians who say that employment policy is exclusively a national task. However, I do not think anything of those who reject and say that this is to be done internationally, at the level of the European Union. However, there is also a successful path – and this in all clarity – for employment policies at international level, at the level of the European Union. Let me begin with a very clear statement: The best support for the Austrian export industry, the best support for the European export economy and for our economy in global competition and thus the best support for employment and jobs will be a strong common European currency. ==References== Austria will enter into force in January 1999 – and Austria will be there. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP as well as the Liberal Forum.]] But we need not only a common European currency and monetary policy, but also a European employment policy. That is why Austria – with great success in the meantime – is in the process of anchoring the employment chapter into the new Treaty of Europe. It is not about an employment chapter, where net payers will send new money to Brussels, which will then be distributed in accordance with the principle of foundry, nor about an employment chapter, where one would have to decide and implement, for example, the same set of measures for each country, it is not about an equalizing of this kind, but about an employment chapter, which makes it clear that the same commitment and the same strength as the finance ministers have to monitor fiscal policy criteria, the labour and economic ministers have to formulate and monitor the employment policy objectives, with the challenge for each country to call employment policy measures and to commit themselves to doing so, and it will also evaluate and determine the success of these measures. For we will not achieve monetary union or the integration of Europe unless Europe becomes an employment union. And that is why Austria will enforce this employment chapter. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] However, there are also a number of very obvious common tasks at European level. We need to make greater use of the market power of this 350 million human market – Hannes Farnleitner says it always – when it comes, for example, to opening the doors to exports in negotiations with Japan or other "tiger states" and using the European Union's market power. We must also make greater use of the opportunity of a common European research and technology policy, ladies and gentlemen. We are very fractional, very divided into Europe. A country alone has little power, for example, to be at the latest state of the art as compared to the large market in the USA. We see this in many examples, such as the example of information technology and the like. But we also see that it can work in Europe if countries make joint efforts across their national borders. Just remember that one example: Europe has pumped thousands of billions of schilling a year into the American aircraft industry for decades; it is only thinking about McDonell, Douglas, Boeing and the like. Every country in Europe would have been too small to develop a fleet of civil aircraft. The cooperation of the countries in Europe, the development of a common product, has enabled us not only to offer a civil aviation fleet to European countries but also to keep hundreds of thousands of jobs in Europe and to be quite successful in exporting. This is the path of a common European technology and innovation policy that will create jobs in Europe, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] This also includes, and this must be said quite clearly, the need to take steps together to prevent harmful competition towards social dumping, wage dumping, tax dumping, environmental dumping and the like. It is, in order to mention an area, a declared objective, with a gradual harmonisation of the tax system, e.g. in the field of VAT, capital income taxes, but also in the direction of a meaningful environmental tax reform aimed at increasing the burden on resource consumption and at reducing labour, creating fair conditions of competition in Europe and not allowing dumping to go down. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We also see new opportunities in this Europe in the field of monetary policy, because over the last two decades Austria has been seriously affected by monetary policy in growth. In a new European monetary policy with a European Central Bank, Austria has for the first time the opportunity to participate equally in the formulation of this monetary policy. It is therefore also necessary for Austria, as already mentioned, to be involved in monetary union from the outset, because the monetary policy of the past has led to the fact that, as a result of our high real interest rates, smaller companies are disadvantaged in investment, because they have to finance them through loans, but that large companies that are strong in income often tend to raise their money, their capital, not in productive investments, which create employment, but precisely because of these high real interest rates in financial investments! I believe that a reasonable European monetary policy will create opportunities for additional jobs in Europe. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! But, as I have already said, it is very, very urgent – and I come to the national level – that we are getting competitiveness in Austria! One of the key points here is the expansion of the infrastructure. This has two advantages: Firstly, the short-term effectiveness of the labour market. – Mr Hostasch, together with colleagues Farnleitner and the other members of the government, has launched an acceleration programme to improve infrastructure in the rail, road, federal buildings, telecommunications and the energy sector in 1997. The federal government alone will be able to invest 38 billion schilling in 1997 – despite consolidation package, despite savings package – and thus create a job for more than 50,000 people in Austria. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] We will also create new ways of financing – for example through private-public partnership models – in the area of infrastructure, where there are measures – which are quite positive – in particular in terms of infrastructure where the state does not need to take over money, but only allow, approve, liberalize, so that existing private capital is invested and thus secured employment. An example: The second mobile license already has over 500 employees in Austria. And there are many other examples that show that a reasonable liberalisation can also use capital for investment and thus create additional employment. Of course – this honesty and this realism must be done – liberalisation also means that there is restructuring in former monopoly areas – that is perfectly clear – and that so far protected sectors are now exposed to competition and thus a gradual reduction of jobs. It is therefore all the more important that we be able in those areas where new employment will continue to be possible in the future, for example in the field of new media; Keywords: The liberalisation of information services and the like is progressing rapidly. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, as a third package of measures, we have undertaken to eliminate a situation which, in fact, is not acceptable for Austria: Austria is a technology net importer! We are aware that, if we want to exist in a globalised economy, we must produce products and services in a quality that actually justify our wage level, our standard of living. We have therefore planned a specific programme for research, development and innovation, a concrete programme, which is available not only for the jobs of 5 000 researchers, but also for new products which we can successfully accommodate in the Austrian market and in the export markets, which means that skilled workers, engineers and commercial personnel will find jobs. For this, there is not only additional money – the Federal Government has committed itself to providing about a billion shillings for the promotion of technology in the next three years from the proceeds of privatisation – but there is also the very interesting approach to sum up existing concepts and proposals in a new project management. I am very glad that we were able to win Director Hochleitner and Professor Schmidt as a project manager to recommend the ten to twelve very clear and precise measures that the Federal Government and the individual research institutes will then have to implement in order to achieve the goal of Austria becoming a technology exporter and not a technology net importer. An outstanding goal for more employment in Austria! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The fourth part is one of the most important, namely the "simple economies". We know that today very many new jobs are not or are only delayed because there are bureaucratic barriers. In the case of today's product life of four years, it is not possible that the authorisation procedures for the establishment of a production plant will last one and a half years or more. I am therefore very glad that a new plant right is already in Parliament, and I hope that it will be adopted quickly and quickly by you. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] In the same way, we also need to remove barriers and barriers to trade, where there are very, very good proposals to introduce land professions of related trade, in order to facilitate the reasons for companies that we also support financially. In the meantime, there are programmes for SME funds, there is the possibility of bringing together investors and ideas with I-Quadrat so that young entrepreneurs can have money to build a production. We also support this with a new stock exchange for small and medium-sized enterprises, which will soon be opened on the Vienna Stock Exchange, and also with commercial parks where the infrastructure is already available, and with technology parks for technology transfer to small and medium-sized enterprises. I am therefore convinced, please, in two years' time, that we are creating a wave of founders, which will actually create a considerable number of small and medium-sized enterprises that will create a lot of jobs. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The fifth point is that it concerns the highest quality in Austria, namely the qualification of Austrian workers. The fact is that more than 44 percent of the unemployed, almost half of them, have only completed compulsory education. It is therefore our task to improve qualifications, to force universities, technical universities and export colleges. After all, they have the new university study law that will help to increase the autonomy of universities, which will lead to a shattering of the study plans, shorter duration and lower drop-out rates, thus avoiding economic loss. I am very glad that, in about a week or so, we can present a reform package on the subject of training, on the subject of professional training, a reform package, ladies and gentlemen, which will correspond to the new developments in vocational training through the innovation of the trade regulations, but also those created by the development of technology, a reform package for apprentices, which will end the impermeability of apprentices and allow them, if they are qualified and willing to do so, with the examination of their careers, to take the step to the university. This is a new reform package that will help to eliminate the bureaucracy that has accumulated, by, for example, simplifying teaching qualifications and adapting questions in the Child and Youth Employment Act to new developments in time. However, it is also a reform package that ensures a fair balance of interests within the economy through the support of those companies that are still making the effort to train apprentices and to which those companies that no longer undergo this effort will contribute. Ladies and gentlemen! This whole set of measures will help to ensure that Austria will continue to have the lowest rate of youth unemployment in the European Union in the future! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] A sixth point: I am aware that active labour market policy through labour market services is only intended as a means of entry into service, as support. Employment and jobs cannot be created by the labour market service. It can, however, help special problem groups to get started! Ladies and gentlemen! It is a very conscious commitment by this Federal Government to an active labour market policy that, even in times of a savings package, even in times of consolidation pact with 7.5 billion schilling, the highest amount of resources for active labour market policy that ever existed can be made available! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This record budget will allow a number of innovations in the field of labour market policy, for example the model attempt at job rotation: If workers are selected to improve their training, these jobs can be occupied by long-term unemployed with the help of the AMS. Another example is the "Commonus Work" initiative. Such model projects have already been launched in five federal states in 1996, and in this year, the remaining four federal states will check with this area of "municipal work", for which there is support from the AMS. There is also a model for business start-ups. I know that these new approaches to labour market policy often come up with reservations, concerns, resistances and criticisms, but I still recognize these model projects because they give us the opportunity to build a bridge to the new millennium with labour market policy as well. [[Abg. May. Stadler: These are ancient proposals from us!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The next point, which will then be dealt with in detail by my colleague Mr Schüssel, is the question of exports. Austria is an export country. However, with an export rate of about 25 percent of GDP, we have a large growth potential compared to the average of industrialized countries. The desired share of exports in gross domestic product of 28 to 30 percent makes it possible to expect tens of thousands of additional jobs. These are not only exports in the area of traditional products and traditional project business, but also exports in the area of enhanced services and agriculture and forestry as essential additional supplements. But it is also a matter of setting priorities. We have therefore undertaken to make available one third of each of these privatisation billions for additional export initiatives in 1998 and 1999. We guarantee Austrian entrepreneurs that they have the same export opportunities and the same export conditions as the companies of Germany and the companies of France. This will be an opportunity to find additional jobs in the export economy. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! A point that is often discussed seems essential to me. We in the Federal Government have undertaken that, without chauvinism, without misunderstanding nationalism, we are very pleased that hundreds of thousands of highly qualified jobs have been created by subsidiaries of foreign companies in Austria, which offer jobs that are just and good, in strategic key areas, both through appropriate measures and in the privatisation strategy, so that we can maintain Austrian decision-making centres. Ladies and gentlemen! If the decision-making centre of a company emigrates, then the important service functions immediately take place, service functions in the area of legal business, financing, insurance business, research, development. It is therefore very important to ensure, through appropriate measures – capital markets, the creation of takeover rights and the like – that enemy take-overs are prevented and that decision-making centres remain in Austria. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Finally, I also give the commitment to a new approach, a commitment to the creation of more qualified service jobs. Austria has a high potential with a share of only 57 percent in the service sector. Developed industrialized countries have 72 and more percentage shares. A study just published by the Academy of Sciences shows us that in the future we can expect very many qualified jobs in the field of information technology, in the field of communication technology. This is only a matter of allowing us to benefit from the opportunities that lie in this area for new jobs – whether they are information brokers or, as always, these new names – and new jobs that will also ensure our competitiveness as a location in Austria. An example: I am convinced that liberalisation in the area of regional radio, local radio, cable, but also satellite TV will create new jobs in Austria, because people will be busy making programmes that make the technology that invest and more like it. Ladies and gentlemen! We must also take new steps in the field of work forms and the distribution of work. I am therefore very glad - and I would like to say this very strongly - that last night the social partners agreed on a way to allow the flexibility of working time in Austria, which provides a fair balance between the interests of workers and employers. Thank you very much to our social partners, who have proved their ability to act and have achieved a decisive breakthrough, as I believe. Thank you. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The flexibility of working time is in the interests of workers, employers and the Federal Government. The flexibility of working time in the way we implement it in Austria is a measure to ensure employment in Austria. We will not be able to create thousands of new jobs by doing so, but it will be an essential contribution to maintaining Austria's competitiveness to ensure the performance of the Austrian economy. Ladies and gentlemen! They are aware that this legal agreement is only the beginning, the start of industry negotiations, in which a balance of interests between employers and employees can then be established at a collective contractual level. I am very glad that, in such a short time, it has succeeded in ensuring an exemplary conclusion in the metal industry. This makes it clear and clear that it is not just a matter of removing workers who have to work 50 hours – which is nonsense – or ten hours a day, but of finding the necessary flexibility, the necessary compensation while protecting the interests of workers. It will be from the 40th and 41th years. There will be an hour's credit, there will be opportunities to take blocks of leisure, and the sovereignty of time will be reached in a joint agreement between employers and employees. I am sure, ladies and gentlemen, that this model is a successful contribution to securing the economic location of Austria. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Khol.]] I have tried, ladies and gentlemen, to present to you nine areas of action at European level in the field of infrastructure, innovation, debureaucratisation, training, active labour market policy, export, decision-making centres in Austria and also new ways. Finally, ladies and gentlemen: We are clear that no responsible government politician can stand up today and say: I create 300 000 jobs and ensure full employment. However, we are also aware that it is not the market alone that it requires cooperation between government, entrepreneurs and workers to ensure the desired success in ensuring employment for Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e3781	I would like to thank the Chancellor of the Federal Republic for his presentation and now give the floor to Dr. Schüssel, Vice-Chanceller. - Please, Mr. Vice-Chancellor. Statement by the Vice-Chancellor on "Employment situation in Austria"
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e3808	Thank you. Mr President. High house! I agree, of course, with the Federal Chancellor's statement, because it has also been jointly developed. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: We did not expect it otherwise!]] Does this surprise you that we are working together in the Federal Government? You'll have to get used to this surprise! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I take advantage of the freedom to call the liberals from the government bank – do not regard this as a polemic, it is very positive – to thank them for having convened this special meeting, because we were so important to us before, in fact, the issue of employment that we have already set up joint initiatives, which we want to explain and introduce to you today. [[Abg. May. Stadler: A good joke! That wasn't a polemic!]] [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: The vice chancellor is kicking on!]] When you look at things honestly – Viktor Klima has tried this; I want to do the same – then you can't promise anything you can't promise. I quote an editorial from Saturday, editor-in-chief Ortner said exactly that. But I believe that the Federal Government can do something, namely to establish the framework conditions with which one can actually set up the business economy which can enable businesses to secure jobs and create new jobs, and to show how the state can allow more work. I think that this is one of the very important things that will continue to concern us in the near future. If one now takes the existing critical situation on the labour market, more than 300,000 unemployed, then it must be said that it is serious for God to take it, it must not be bagatized and wiped away, because there are 300 000 families behind it who experience a fate – at least temporary – that I do not wish any worker in Austria. Therefore, serious political action must be aimed at reducing unemployment, allowing work and setting up new initiatives. But first of all we have to do the analysis of why the number of unemployed has actually increased. And we know that there is a bunch of causes. First – this is the main cause; that will say every serious economic researcher –: We have too weak economic growth in Europe and not only in Austria. Secondly, For ten years, the dollar – I say artificially – was undervalued. This has, of course, led the Americans and the dollar-related currencies to gain competitive advantages over the European economy. If we now look at the fact that the dollar has become stronger in recent months and we have, for example, been talking about an increase in our exports to North America of 17 percent in the last year, we can see very clearly that this is one of the very big global causes, which, of course, fully affects domestic unemployment statistics. Thirdly, we have a structural change that takes place in technology. There are always new products, qualities that can also be produced elsewhere, and structural causes. Some of these – as the Federal Chancellor rightly said – are homemade, and they can be stopped. One important point is: We may have learned – I say very openly – to view the labour market as a labour market. This means that work itself is subject to the principle of supply and demand, therefore it does not automatically grow everything and is treated in times where orders are more frequent, as in times of weaker order situations or weaker employment. That is why we have the paradoxical situation of having, on the one hand, the highest employment rates, but at the same time the highest unemployment rate since the 1950s, since the end of World War II. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: But it doesn't matter to an unemployed person who wants you to make proposals!]] Excuse me, Mrs Deputies! He wants to hear measures, but first you also have to go into the depth of a certain analysis, otherwise you will be far off with your job measures. Only with the reserve of the note bank alone you will not be able to finance it. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] The second question is therefore: What can be done? [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Say something specific!]] The excitement in the liberal ranks is obviously proportionally proportional with the patience of listening to the government bank. You'll all have the opportunity to talk. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: We listen very attentively!]] – Thanks many times for the attention. [[Further calls to the liberals.]] So what can you do? – There are more open and defensive strategies. The offensive – out of my conviction – lies a lot in the export, in the exhaustion of the higher service share – has already been pointed out – and in the technology. More defensive measures are more likely to be the redistribution of what is available at existing levels of work. This includes, for example, the flexibility of working hours. Therefore, first offensive point: How can efforts at European level be more connected? I think that is important, because there are very many possibilities in the field of technology. This begins with the road structure, because in the end it makes no sense to build alone transport routes in Austria, which must be connected to the European road network. It would be interesting to come to a liberalisation of the telecoms market, as the European Union says and as is now being negotiated in the WTO World Trade Organisation in GATT. It is important to have fair road costs across Europe. That is why road pricing cannot and should not remain an Austrian single entry – although we want to have a certain pioneering role here – but it would be important for Europe to take such a course, which would ultimately be the only one capable of ensuring fair conditions of competition and also an interesting technological innovation. I also call it the area of electricity liberalisation – something that we are now discussing very intensively in Austria and which ensures the location of industry and industry much better. We are going into the field of environmental technology, by the way, the subject of The European Union's White Paper on employment opportunities and economic strategies is very comprehensive and would be most acceptable in Austria. And there is also the field of technical, research or similar impulses, which can only be coordinated more Europeanally, especially in large-scale research. Second point: the euro. Viktor Klima has rightly pointed out that the most important action of the European Union is the creation of a central European currency in the event of continued dollar weakness. And one who is rather unwarranted, because he has spoken critically about these questions, namely Stefan Schulmeister, has said this literally in his study, which he has also provided to all clubs: The most important measure is the implementation of the single European currency. As long as the Americans can improve their competitiveness with Japan and Germany through a "talking the dollar down" – that is, the dollar – while at the same time driving a rope between the European hard- and soft-currency countries, they will continue to use the dollar weakness as a strategic weapon, the weaker the world economy is. It is therefore all the more important that we use this ambitious project in the interests of Austria's economic location, and perhaps also that some of the party's policies, which might be obvious, should be put back in the interests of the state's well-being, in the interests of the common good. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Third point: export. This must, of course, be the engine and it has been in the last two years. For example, I have only taken the figures of the export industry since 1990. Since 1990, we have increased Austria's exports by 120 billion schillings to say and write 580 billion schillings today. Last year alone, exports have increased by about 13 percent on a Schilling basis. That's something! [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: How does the trade balance look?]] – I am allowed to respond immediately, because, interestingly, there are some striking differences. For example, we have had at the height of Japan a trade deficit of 18 billion schilling. Last year we succeeded for the first time in getting close to a balanced trade balance, due to the efforts of our export minister Hannes Farnleitner, due to the efforts of the entire Federal Government. – A huge success that no one would have thought possible a few years ago! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am coming from Asia, from a large conference of all European foreign ministers with Japan, China, Korea, with all ASEAN countries, with which we have traditionally even a trade surplus in the ASEAN countries. We have also already reduced the deficit with China. Of course, we need to make even more efforts in this area, especially to help small and medium-sized enterprises to get to these very difficult export markets. In addition, we have to start a single market offensive – which is the next ambitious goal – because we are almost equipped with a slight surplus with the rest of the world, including, of course, investments, large projects and everything else, while we still have a trade deficit of over 100 billion schilling within the European Union. That is why an offensive must take place in this area. However, this cannot be arranged in such a way, but it is very concrete how it works very well in the food and food industry, for example, thanks to the hardest work done by the Minister of Agriculture and Agriculture in connection with the agricultural market Austria. The following successes have been recorded – Mr Reichhold, listen! –: [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Mr. Vice chancellor! It has increased by 50 percent, from 2 : 1 to 3 : 1!]] Italy: Export increases by 83 percent in the food industry. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Raw milk! No value added!]] May I hold on here: We have a surplus of agricultural trade with Italy for the first time, Mr Dr. Haider. Yes, if this is not a success, I do not know what is to be a success in this country at all! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In 1996, this was exceeded again by an increase of 36 percent. With Germany last year, we doubled food exports by 60 percent for baking goods, and by 110 percent for milk and cheese. Again: That's not enough yet! But this is the concrete export offensive that we have undertaken, which should increase our share from 25 percent to 28, 30 percent. This is not shale rhetoric, where every single success is not even ignored, because it simply disagrees with its own critical line. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Fourth area, which is very important: take the middle class seriously as an employment engine. In fact, the large industry cannot take on additional responsibility for employment. If they keep their jobs, they're world champions. Where new impulses come from, these are the smaller and medium-sized enterprises. In recent years, i.e. from 1990 to 1996, businesses with less than 100 employees have created 80 000 new jobs in addition, the firms with between 100 and 500 employees have created some 30 000 jobs, with more than 500 employees having a slight decline by 7 000 jobs. This is why, of course, the joint effort must be made to enable small and medium-sized enterprises to re-establish. In this area, we also have very good successes to show. It is asked again and again: Where's the Founder's Wave? Since 1990, 100 000 enterprises have been newly established in Austria. [[Call:And how many have locked up]] In the same period were – correct objection; how high is the number? – about 65 000 business closures. These are not only bankruptcys, they are also closures for age reasons or whatever. That is, the net balance is actually significant. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: These are reorganisations!]] – These are not re-establishments, but real re-foundations. We therefore de facto have a huge movement in both directions, but it is mostly positive, and therefore this wave of founders must be encouraged and supported in the coming years by the Federal Government, by banks – very important, call signs, large call signs. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Fifth level: faster procedures. This is a magic word that is extremely important and that will occupy the House enormously over the next few months. I also say quite openly, speaking to my party: This has top priority for us! I only take a small example from Upper Austria – I could also take another federal country – as such a thing looks like. The Upper Austrians have recorded in a great graphic how within five years the duration of the procedure for approvals in the first and second instance of 36 months – from 36 months, colleague Reichhold – has been reduced to less than 6 months. I believe that this is the best investment promotion programme that we can do if we want to allow businesses that create jobs, to secure jobs, to guarantee that their well-earned money can be invested quickly and not remain in the offices. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In the field of service – sixth point – Viktor Klima rightly pointed out that there is a huge still unexplored potential. I would also like to take up some ideas that have emerged in recent days. Our health care spokesman, for example, spoke about the health professions, the care professions, Gitti Ederer, the household service sector, the service sectors. There is an enormous amount of inside, as there are thousands of unexplored job opportunities that can sometimes be found in the shadow economy today, with which they have also been removed from social security and taxation and are actually wrongfully correcting our work balance down. We should integrate these extremely important topics into the official economy and should also have the courage to give impetus here. This can be, for example, money or benefits in the field of care, for example in the field of the training of care professions can be a liberalisation and extension, so that we do not get married all the time, and because we have too few trained, we need to import the Philippines laboriously. I do not think that I can only polish with half a sentence now, but I believe that with a reasonable form of education in the field of health, service and household professions we would be able to make enormous job opportunities available to our economy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Allow me to say a sentence in this field on qualification and education. I have looked at the unemployment statistics of the Minister of Social Affairs Hostash and the labour market service, and there are the following points: First: 44 per cent of the unemployed only have compulsory schooling, and only 13 per cent of the unemployed have higher schooling qualifications; in between, polytechnics, apprenticeships et cetera. There is, of course, also a huge post-mortem potential inside. In my opinion, we should use a lot of brain narrowness to allow non-additional compulsory school leavers to choose a second education entry, to receive a kind of second education check so that they can improve their qualifications and, as I think, their career opportunities for the next few years. Another point I fully agree with is the question of budget. It must be possible – this is our ambition, both from climate and from me and the relevant ministers – to unite budget consolidation, growth and employment policies in a golden triangle. This is the Austrian secret recipe, which hopefully will unite and connect social democrats and Christian Democrats – everyone else are invited to do so. That's the point. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] We cannot and must not deviate from the path of budget consolidation. I am now telling you a pretty dramatic number: Even now, where the Commission confirms in the last economic report that in four countries, including Austria, an unusually clear reduction in the adjusted deficit has been achieved and will continue to succeed in the two years 1996 and 1997, 10 million schillings are made per hour in Austria. Don't underestimate this drama. If, therefore, we become soft on the path of fiscal consolidation, please eat us up in a few years of interest and debt service, and we have no room at all to make any active employment, economic or technology policy in any way. We must therefore succeed in this golden triangle of employment, growth and at the same time debt reduction. A final word: I would also like to express my thanks to the social partners who at times have been mocked and underestimated by the public. I find this agreement, which was found last night by the social partners, a remarkable piece, and I do not understand why it immediately leads to mockery. Let's be glad that we... [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: Cynical!]] Cynic smile? No, cynical smiles, Mr Haselsteiner, I cannot seriously accept that. I was in Bonn yesterday, and I was deeply impressed when the German Chancellor Kohl told me, but then also publicly told the Austrian journalists, I always use the good example of Austria. You have long made the tax reform, you are more productive than we are, you can advertise with a location quality that we would sometimes wish for in Germany. So if that's not acceptable, what? [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] This agreement last night, which, of course, is now to be fulfilled by the social partners in the sectors and also in businesses, can indeed be a turning point in the future of the 21st century. Being a century where we use the precious good work carefully and as flexibly as possible for the mutual advantage. Therefore: It's all right. – In Austria, much changes, but the important things remain the same: cooperation, the social partnership climate, the position of the common good over individual or party interest. When we achieve this, I am not afraid of the future of the world of work in Austria either.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e4076	I should also like to thank Mr Vice-Chancellor for his statement. We are now entering the debate. I do not need to repeat the speaking time agreement once again and can therefore give the floor to Mr Dr. Haider. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e4103	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The special session which we have requested from the Liberals seems to have also found the government's approval, although I am surprised that, during the speech of the Vice-President, half the Socialist Group has apparently left the assembly for the sake of the interests of the German Government's proposals. This also shows the importance of job security in this country. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr. Federal Chancellor Mag. Climate! Today, you have had a second chance to make the public aware of where your priorities and changes will lie, how you will change things in a difficult situation. I do not think you have used this opportunity properly or insufficiently. The only thing that you have actually welcomed today is the agreement of the social partners on the flexible working time scheme, which means that instead of 38.5 hours up to 50 hours can be worked and that daily working hours can be 10 hours plus without overtime. I should like to remind you that your own group, the Social Democracy, fought the 1995 election campaign with the distribution of leaflets in the establishments. It said: "Boats and sharks, black and blue citizens' block, have in sight: Deregulation of working time – that means constant availability of workers." - What have you done now? – extending the normal daily working time from eight to ten to 13 hours. This means loss of income due to the loss of overtime supplements, warn you about it in your leaflet. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: That's exactly what we have now!]] "Reduction of overtime tax – that means massive wage losses," says Social Democracy. "It's all about now! The bowl party and the shark party have given the launch shot to endanger social peace in Austria." – But now the Social Democratic Chancellor says that what you promised at the time is all macularity, now work longer and pay less. I would have expected you to say at least: If people work more, you should be allowed to earn more! That would be the right philosophy! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But on the fact that you start your policy with an blatant break, Mr Mag. We will have to talk about climate, because it cannot be that flexible working hours are carried out exclusively on the back of workers. If you are not prepared to add something on the pay side through reasonable overtime arrangements, you must at least be prepared to compensate for some of the income losses in the context of a reasonable wage tax reduction. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is not easy for the people who have so far earned around 25,000 s in the construction industry to go home now with 17 000 to 18 000 s. It is not easy for a metal worker who so far had 18 000 s net that he now has to work for 14 000 s. And it is not easy for a sawmill worker who has so far earned 16 000 s that he now has to go home at 12,000 s. You know that very well, Mr Nürnberger. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nürnberger.]] They themselves are one who has advertised out here for a real loss of income and has appeared on television. This has not been the trade union movement that protects the little man and also cares for the poor people. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You, Federal Chancellor, have said that the poor must not get poorer. – But with this step you do. The little ones will harm you with this. They say that the training of skilled workers must now be reformed. – Who has been talking about education for 27 years now? – Only Social Democratic Ministers! I'm really asking you: Skill Do you make yourself here with good conscience and act as if you hadn't been part of that party, which for 27 years has watched that for the skilled worker, for the apprentice, there were in reality no permeable educational opportunities for the active young people? Today they still have to pay for parts of their studies and their training themselves, while every stroll student is being financed today at the expense of the Republic! – These are the things that we criticize to you, because you are not willing to end up with consequences after 27 years! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They say that the euro is now the super, the miracle that the jobs bring, and Her own trade union colleague Salmutter, on the other hand, announces that thousands of jobs will be eliminated by the euro. – Once you have to find a language system in the inner relationship. The following is clear, Mr Bundeskanzler: The Maastricht Treaty contains nothing at all from job security, from an employment initiative, from a fight against unemployment in the same way as monetary union. And you won't bring that in either. Therefore: Do not swindle the Austrians by blaming them for a monetary union linked to an employment union. Nothing will change there, as you have seen in recent months. I therefore believe that it would have failed, that you really took care of the income situation of those who have damaged you today with your first measure, and that those who suffer a small loss of income who are still in your party as privileged riders. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Wedenig would be a model case that you could call for order. He retains his mandate so that he can have a political board. You don't say anything, but you're going over the little man! Ladies and gentlemen! I think that this special session is about the question of an emergency programme. What is your emergency program in the fight against unemployment? Mr Bundeskanzler, you still have as Minister of Finance a year ago – if I may ask for your valuable attention – on 20 June. March, eight priorities for the Minister of Finance in the fight against unemployment: Investment, infrastructure development, new financing models, export offensive, job creation, research promotion, technology change, telecommunications and environmental measures. You said that again today. Why are you supposed to believe? – They always announce the same at annual intervals and say: That's where we're going to make technology policy. Which one? – That you make your friend Hochleitner von Siemens the president of a working group, although everyone knows what to do? Where, then, is it in a civilized country that the largest promoter of the Republic is now allowed to go back to the funding itself, and the government will understand that?- Oh, my God! – This will not create new jobs! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Or: Export offensive. Ladies and gentlemen! What was the export offensive? There was a constitutional meeting of an export promotion council. Then nothing's been left. This is your "export offensive"! Work offensive: Federal Chancellor! They themselves have eliminated the loss stakes in tax law and thus reduced 20 000 jobs from this title alone – this is quite easy to read. Founding offensive: You yourself, Mr Bundeskanzler, have the minimum corporation tax, which the Constitutional Court of Justice has now abolished, on behalf of young entrepreneurs, and are surprised that they are not willing to set up new companies. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They themselves have watched how the Chamber of Commerce continues to levy an inclusion fee if you want to work as a young businessman. Course offensive: If you yourself, Mr Bundeskanzler, ensure that the apprenticeship tax is also taxed locally and is thus expensive for the holding, then you must not be surprised if you have 6,000 apprentices who will not find a job. Flexible working hours: Now you're celebrating this as a success. Please, the trade union has been watching for months how more than 50 percent of the employees in Austria have worked outside the working time laws, in other words counter-legem. No work inspector was there because they're the big ones! These are the Steyr works, that's BMW, that's Siemens, these say then, you get 500 people put on the street if we can't work 50 hours a week. - There was no work inspector! With the little ones you sniff around, they beat you, and that creates the mean climate in the economy, and that actually prevents jobs. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Loading opening times: A completely non-worldly arrangement is being made there. If you work in the trade on Saturday longer than 1 p.m., the employee must automatically have the whole day off on the next Saturday. Yes, you have never heard of modern methods of reward, namely that someone has a basic wage and sells on commissions – in furniture markets, in textile markets, in clothing stores? – These people will be happy to thank you! If one can work as a salesman today on Saturday, then he makes his commissions, the next Saturday he must stay at home, even though he wants to work because one knows that around 26 percent of the weekly business is already focused on Saturday. You're world-wide with all your ideas! That's what you need to say. They're moving around in the technology! Take hand-fixed measures! Do what is necessary in this Republic! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Chancellor! Women's employment: You're a concern to me. Yes, why do you look? Is it, then, that the ban on night work for women is not lifted? – The company Siemens in Villach could not take up 100 women because there is a night work ban for women. And with that, unemployment is rising. Throughout Austria, I can give you many examples. That's where you need to show competence! You can't say we'll do anything in the future. - Do it now! Now! More specifically! Create You better conditions for our economy, then it will work! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Budget consolidation: Forget that! If the state still asks for as much money as it is today, this will result in us having too high real interest rates and will result in us having a third to two thirds less equipment investment in the Austrian economy today than it would be in line with the economic situation. That's what every economist tells you! They're talking about budget consolidation. Forget what you said! This cannot be argued at all by the economy. That is why I say to you: You have not presented a concept here today. We will present you with our concept: I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report. First of all, this includes the initiative, as Mr Vice-Chancellor said: Austria is a country with many small and medium-sized enterprises, which bear our economy. Then we have to do something for these too! Let us remove the investment-free amount and give them the opportunity to invest tax-free profit in the company through a tax reform, creating an investment boom of between 15 and 20 billion schilling in the country, ladies and gentlemen! That would be what it could be about. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] I'm saying, This is a demand that the ÖVP has constantly raised, years ago! Mr Maderthaner presented it in 1990. Now it says Jörg Haider as an initiative to be taken immediately. Now, at once, Mrs Secretary-General Rauch-Kallat comes and says that the cost is 120 billion schilling. So please, if you know – there even Luke shoves your nose! – that all corporate taxes account for only 79 billion schillings, then it cannot be said that a tax reduction costs 120 billion schillings! So I've never heard such a cockbucky nonsense! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] - But be it. I'm just telling you a word from your former colleague Busek, who said in a newspaper interview: There has been a slight tendency on the part of the ÖVP for many years to deal with issues of content. What concerns me most is the blatant decline in the expertise of the ÖVP. – I don't have anything to add to it! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Point two: The flexibilization of working time must also involve at least an elimination of cold progression. Mr Vergestnitsch! I'm curious about what you're saying. For many years you have stood on barricades to compensate for this inflation-related tax increase at the expense of workers in good time. We haven't had this compensation for years. Wage tax revenue has increased by 37 percent over the last three years. That is to say, the small and medium-sized employee in our businesses is paying the whole thing. We know that. In this context, I quote Mr Lehner of the Wifo, budget expert of the ÖVP, who said: This is fully true of the broad layers of average earnings with a monthly income of between 15 000 and 25 000 p. As a result, the wage tax burden is increasing enormously. Some politicians seem to have no idea what size of workers this is all about! - Quote. The tax rate must be corrected, Mr Vergestnitsch, at least for the extra burden. Because if today someone pays more for 1 000 s – due to his progression stage – 320 S, he pays tomorrow because of inflationary growth 420 S and wonders that he gets less and less out. If this is cumulated, he has less than he earned in the previous year – despite alleged wage and wage increases. So that can't be it! You must, if you stop people for extra services, for longer service without overtime money, at least as a state to compensate, and for the start of this tax reform we have in mind this 23 billion schilling of the Austrian National Bank. Don't pretend you wouldn't think of it yourself. Professor Novotny says that because Haider, with his privilege reduction, forces the National Bank to take more self-sufficiency in pensions, there is a surplus there. – So Dr. Novotny von der SPÖ. He himself says you could take this money. And Professor Streissler is already expecting feverish for the ÖVP how to use these 23 billion schillings. But only because this is an idea of the liberals, will it be made bad once – as was the case with the unscathed profits. Get used to the fact that we are ahead of you a nose length and always make the better suggestions at the right time. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] On the question of worker protection: If you are not sick of knowledge like Mrs Secretary-General, then you can withdraw such a meeting, that is no problem at all. [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The provisions on the protection of workers were also under discussion. I say quite frankly to you: It is better to loosen excessive workers' protection provisions than to produce unemployed. This applies to the entire apprenticeship area. If an apprentice is no longer allowed to attack a machine today if a baker's apprentice is no longer allowed to attack an agitator if he is no longer allowed to make the filling for the company truck, but at the same time can refuel his own car at the self-service station at home, then something is wrong with the control in this Republic. So get out of here, too, with these things! We tell you that you must also reduce foreign employment. It will not be enough to say we want to do that. We still have a 9 per cent alien quota, Mr President Vergestnich – contrary to all public statements! 8 percent is in the law, 9 percent you have approved, that's about 30,000 too many. Kill them once! These are 30 000 jobs for Austrians - also in the sense of what the labour market administration itself has said! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] These ideas go to massive investments in the construction sector, for example in the promotion of housing. Federal Chancellor Klima has said that he wants to change the housing promotion or abolish it. - That's nonsense, please! The promotion of housing is an important economic activity. But let's practice the Luxembourg model: You pay 10 percent of the VAT to those housekeepers and housekeepers who work with professionals and bills! The Luxembourg model, according to the Wifo, creates 10 000 jobs. I would have liked to hear that from you today – but not from this general discussion that something will happen in the future! One last issue on eco-dumping, social dumping: There I visit a farm in Carinthia, which specializes in the production of printed circuit boards. [[Intrusion of the Abg. I don't know.]] – No, not Siemens, but a smaller, private operation. I'm going to small farms, too. On the other hand, they always go only where there are no problems. I'm going where there are problems to help. I went to this farm and I found that these entrepreneurs alone have 3 to 4 percent higher costs than the competitors in Slovenia through the non-harmonised environmental protection provisions in Austria, including the neighbor of Slovenia, who has now received an association agreement. - And what happens? – The companies now order orders in Slovenia, because our businesses – alone from the wastewater treatment plant – are being imposed on such many regulations, such as that the cleaning rate should not be 95 percent, but 97 percent. That's a huge investment, doesn't bring anyone anything, but destroys jobs. That's it! If you do not want this path to continue, you will have to make changes and improvements in these areas. Then you will have to create a capital market, perhaps with an Austrian package, so that Austrians don't only have savings books, they may also participate in some companies. Then you will also have to demand in the business agreements, Mr Vergestnitsch, that, if flexible work is done, a profit participation is mandatory for employees. If the operation is successful, the employee should also be involved in the profit, and not only if the holding is bad, will have to give up his income and work longer. We'd love to hear from you! At least today, we liberals will bring in this package of requests and hope that you will at least agree to us in part, because it is not a party-political debate, but the question: In the present situation, who is creating emergency measures in the fight for the elimination of 300,000 unemployed, which is bad enough?- Oh, my God! There are the worlds apart. We say: restrictive immigration, no more immigration. – On the other hand, they want to grant 60 000 new work permits to foreigners. Completely wrong! The government says East opening without When and But. . We say no opening to the east, because the labour market does not stand out. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] They say: Euro without If and But. . We say that this is not acceptable under these conditions, which creates too many unemployed people. They say: flexible working hours and no pay. – We say: Wage tax reduction when it is necessary to work flexibly. They are waiting for a miracle in the employment field. We are in favour of concrete measures.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e4290	Mrs Rauch-Kallat has reported on an actual correction. First, ask the facts to be corrected and then the actual ones. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e4314	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Haider has claimed that I would have claimed that the abandonment of investment grants would have cost 120 billion schillings. - That's wrong. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] It is true, rather, that I said that the tax plans of the liberals by means of reduced revenue and additional expenditure would cause the Austrian state to lose 210 billion schilling and thus burden the budget.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e4351	The next speaker is Mr Deputy. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e4380	Federal Chancellor! Dear Members of the Federal Government! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It would certainly also be tempting now to use the speaking time to analyse the economic processes and the development of the labour market in Austria. However, I believe that we are well advised to use today's time to clarify things and, on the one hand, to show solutions that will ultimately help to give those who have work security for the future, and those who are looking for work, to show how we want to solve their common problem. It is not about leaving this magical number 300 000 alone in space. I believe that it will be important to look for 299 000 jobs in advance and not just to put 300 000 in the room, ladies and gentlemen. Working time flexibility is such a point where it is necessary to clarify more than ever – for days and even today, the attempt to be the opposite is being made – that the scheme which the social partners made yesterday, the 10-hour day and the 50-hour week in Austria, are not the result of which is a loss of overtime costs. Mr Haider! I would remind you of your own press releases, in which you said, for example, that you would be willing to support the flexibilization proposal of the Social Democrats with collective agreement. - That's exactly what we did. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Haider.]] - You didn't say that here. I'd like to give you this press release. That's exactly what we've done now. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Haider.]] They can be broken, too. Now you have a new proposal, but there is nothing wrong with it. But it is a fact that you said at the time that you support it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Haider.]] - No, I don't. That's exactly what we've done now. Read it! There is no change in daily working hours. There is no change in weekly working hours. It does not change the overtime pay, except the collective contracting parties come to a new solution. How can such a thing look? – A practical example: a collective contract solution in the metal industry with the trade union Metall-Bergbau-Energie. Benefits for workers: up to one week more leisure time through time supplements, time sovereignty, additional leisure time with blocks of leisure, secure basic income, increased job security and prevention of cancellations. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Haider.]] – This is not at all an income ban, Mr Haider, but a supplement of 25 per cent for each hour, starting from the 40. We've been working hours. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Earn the people!]] Mr Haider! What do we want? – We need to reach an agreement: If we want job security, do we want to get jobs, or do we want overtime, which ultimately leads to higher unemployment insurance contributions being paid? - It's nothing else. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This solution, with regard to flexibility, is clear with what many have wished, namely to formulate decisions on flexibility solely from employers' interests. Of course, I couldn't analyze this in the time available to me – we just got your paper "Ally for Work" recently. There is one to think, however, when on page 6 of your alliance it is the first point that there should be no change in positions such as legalization of flexible working hours currently being done. What do you want? You really? Wings They arrange conditions – or legalize what has perhaps been done there or there as a sub-branch? [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] – We want orderly conditions also in flexibilisation: Solutions with collective agreements and not legalization of illegal transactions, colleague Haider, as stated on page 6 of your concept. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You watched against the law!]] I assume that the agreement made with regard to flexibilisation as in the case of the construction workers' scheme in the previous year – the annual calculation model – ultimately pursues two objectives: On the one hand, not to understand flexibility as a one-way road, but to benefit both sides, and on the other hand to contribute with this flexibility to avoiding unemployment, because the construction worker model is a good proof of this: six to eight weeks of longer employment. It will also be up to the trade unions to provide a corresponding income compensation in the past. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Where is the income compensation?]] [[Further call of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] – We will do so as with the example I have quoted today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The opening hours have been discussed, some of which may well apply to one or the other. In any case, I have had the experience that since the new regulation, salesmen and salesmen have been happy that they have been able to spend a free weekend with their families since 1945. We should not forget that either and not just polemize it again and again, it is about preventing employment. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Dr. Novotny.]] Ladies and gentlemen! On the subject of flexibilization you can still mention a lot of points. Is it, for example, a bad regulation for BMW that the 36-hour week has been introduced with wage compensation? – These are the consequences of flexibilisation. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Why don't you compare that?]] – That is exactly what is being done now, because so far... [[Abg. Dr. Haider: No, you didn't compare that!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Don't!]] Mr Haider! You need to agree what you really want. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Where is the compensation?]] – As a collective contractual partner, we have to find the corresponding arrangements by negotiating this and not claiming that the State should pay for it to polemise against the State five minutes later. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We have reached the agreement that the working time arrangement must be made exclusively by means of the collective agreement and by the collective contractual partners and therefore the collective contracting parties must be defined, which is the replacement for the overtime, which is the replacement for a corresponding multi-time. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Haider.]] I think it is also in the interest of both sides that, for example, a 4-day week is now possible in the law – not general ten hours of working time, but only four days. And nothing else should be claimed in this context. I believe that it is also important to deal with apprenticeship training. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Mr President! One question!]] - Please. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Why do you look away at large businesses if the working time law...?]] – No one looks away at all. We now have a new system that will ultimately lead us to 'capture' all this. However, we will not demand that, as you write on page 6 of your concept, all these illegal measures be sanctioned. This is your policy, not our policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Where is the income compensation?]] When we talk about apprenticeship training, I ask myself – I'm deliberately quoting a company here – why the company brings full-page advertisements on Sunday, for which apprenticeship training is advertised, but here the impression is being tried to give up the apprenticeship training no longer supposes itself or will be disabled. Mr Haider said on Sunday that an apprentice should not work with a chain saw. Read it, I say. After reading, it will be found that the use of a chain saw is very likely also permitted for apprentices, after the end of the second year and under supervision, because it is ultimately also about the fact that an apprentice does not work with devices whose handling is very high risk of injury. Look Turn on the numbers on the accidents, and then you will come to different views! This is exactly the same polemic used by the roofing instructor: There's polemizing, he can only work on a flat roof with a railer. – The fact is that he can also work on a steep roof if he has a corresponding protection. I believe that it must be in our interest not to polemise in terms of apprenticeship training, but to make it so attractive that apprentices also develop for our economic life. We must put the facts to the fore, ladies and gentlemen. We don't need anything else. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We need new professions with new content. It is important to think about it, and it is not to be put into space that the protection of labour actually prevented the whole. Where is the sense of occupational protection when it is so hindering? – You said I was only going to large businesses. Let us go together to the inn I recently visited with three employees to look at the question of worker protection. There I have heard from the entrepreneur, but also from the employees: Stop the constant rhyme! For us, protection of workers is important, because we do not want to live in accident workplaces! – So there too you should not put something in the room, which in practice cannot be proved. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] - I'd like to give you the address afterwards. I am concerned that we should focus on education, both in apprenticeship training and in education and training, in the interests of our economy and the workers there. Ladies and gentlemen! It would be worth considering whether we are still following a trend in which we say: You do not have the necessary qualifications, you will be released, the employment relationship will be terminated, and the labour market service will help you to continue your education. – Why can’t you think about whether continuing training can take place in the company in a combination with existing employment conditions and the labour market service? Mobility is required in the labour market. I think that it is quite worth thinking, Mr Vice-Chancellor has mentioned road pricing, whether this road pricing could not create the risk that, because they have such a high cost of road pricing, for example, as construction workers if they are travelling in Austria, they would be really burdened. I believe that this is a point in which we should consider mobility very much. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Even if this might irritate one or the other: I am convinced that we should also think more about technology use and technology application than ever before, for example on the question of genetic engineering. In this respect, we should jointly seek more open access, ask where the benefit lies, where the danger lies, so that we can not decouple from the rest of the world, but together we can start a similar development. The small and medium-sized enterprises have been rightly addressed. I would also like us to work together to promote greater support for these small and medium-sized enterprises. I think there are some suggestions from abroad. If an eight-sided listing of the federal state of Rhineland-Palatinate is advocating that, by means of own resources of about 60 000 D-Mark, a joint promotion of almost 440,000 D-Mark can be achieved in order to put new ideas into effect in the multi-media field, then, I believe, we are well advised to combine the multiple promotions we have in Austria in such a way that similar effects arise that not the promoter must run from one to the other, but that, by means of appropriate concentration, as can be proved by some examples, jobs are ultimately created. Ladies and gentlemen! But it is also about – and the German Chancellor has already mentioned this – that we have Austrian decision-makers. I believe that it would be right and necessary, on the question of privatisation, to focus more on the question of the sale of Austrian companies than ever on the Austrian location, as could be the case at Salinen AG in the near future. This is not about selling abroad, but about using the Austrian opportunities to secure the location through cooperation with Austrian companies. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! When we talk about the labour market, we all experience a certain kind of envy, an indifference that speaks of "social-smarots", an indifference that makes foreigners responsible for having no work there or there. We should go to the slogan. "The Mohr has done his guilt, the Mohr can go!" do not follow. We need orderly conditions. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's what the Fassl evening says!]] I don't care! I'm telling you my opinion here. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Fassleven is your coalition partner! You don't care about him? Fassleven says what we said a year ago! In a year you'll say it too!]] We need to take into account orderly conditions that are looking for work on Austrians, who take into account those foreign workers who have worked in our country for years. [[Abg. May. Stadler: In a year you will say that too! I'm going to tell you that!]] Listen to me! This includes a restrictive approach to re-entry. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: 1 700 want to get you back!]] We do not want to make seasonal workers from abroad even cheaper through state subsidies in your "Ally for Work" as you do, Mr Haider. That can't be the goal! We need orderly employment in our country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We should not forget on the whole that 200 000 Austrians work abroad alone. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: 1 700 will be approved this year!]] Our intention should therefore be: In addition to monetary values, in addition to the trade system, we must jointly ensure that social fundamental rights can be properly integrated into the world trade order. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You are President of the European Union!]] Together, Mr Haider! – Let us make sure that, for example, in the context of the euro – you mentioned Maastricht – two European Union decisions are taken, namely, the introduction of the euro by 1999 and, on the other hand, the reduction of unemployment by half by 2000. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: This is not part of the Maastricht Treaty!]] This is a decision of the European Union, where I will not let go of it. I am going to remind the European Union and ourselves of it again and again. We will not hide this, but we will insist that the joint action of the Government will also convince other governments. We will not be silent – nor will we speak populistly. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Decision one is implemented, decision two not!]] We hear again and again about the fact that the unemployed do not really want to work. By the way, I would point out to you that, if I have read this correctly, at your first point, which you mention in your "Ally for Work", you are already being overtaken by reality, because, for example, in the case of seasonals, if they have a recruitment commitment which is not equal to that they... [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You might make a few suggestions! Does the union no longer have any proposals? Where are your proposals?]] Mr Haider, the practice is far more important than putting on one paper after another. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: 300,000 unemployed, and you don't bring any idea! You're from the ÖGB!]] I'm convinced... [[Abg. May. Stadler: What kind of trade union movement is that?]] Listen to me! You will still not be able to stop me, but I will tell you my opinion, and you will also have to take note of it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] If we assume that, on average, the unemployed in Austria receive a monthly income of up to 9 000 s, then proposals for 80 per cent of unemployment benefit are really a completely wrong target, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is a purely functional club, not a union anymore! 300 000 unemployed and no proposals!]] We are concerned with maintaining work and creating work. There are things where they smile again and again. Even if you smile again, I'll repeat it. [[Abg. May. Stadler: I don't smile, but I'm aging that the union has become a functional club and doesn't bring any idea!]] In Austria, thermal insulation creates 40 000 jobs. Investment in the construction industry in Austria will create another 50 000 jobs. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Investment in infrastructure... [[Abg. May. Stadler: How long do you need until you get an idea?]] Listen to me! You don't listen at all, but you want to tell your slogan you don't want to listen at all. You are probably so excited because you are opposed and not followed by you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: You are a functional club, otherwise nothing at all!]] I'm convinced: If we further expand those measures already taken, such as infrastructure investment, thermal insulation, transport investments... [[Abg. May. Stadler: (the hands are collapsing) thermal insulation!]] You can smile over it quietly. Heat insulation creates work in small and medium-sized enterprises, and this is important for small and medium-sized enterprises in Austria. Whether you want it or not: This is a very crucial factor, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I am convinced that if we have jointly discussed those measures which we have discussed here in the House... [[Abg. May. Stadler: The ÖGB proposes thermal insulation! Sensational!]] You won't be able to do that at all because you won't lure me out of the reserve. [[Abg. May. Stadler: The ÖGB proposes thermal insulation!]] The fact is that thermal insulation creates 40 000 jobs – and this is more important than a cheap polemic that you are doing here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If we manage to present to the public many things that are presented there or there as a reason for remedy as they are right, I am convinced that we will also be able to deal with the problem with the 300,000 unemployed.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e4967	Mr Dr. Haider spoke in favour of an actual correction. I would draw attention to the relevant provisions of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e4991	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Vergesetz has claimed that it is not true that, as I have said, apprentices must not use chain saws at work. – That’s wrong! I quote from the relevant provision for apprentices. Destination: ==References== Year of life and for young people in training until the end of the 19th century. Year of life is prohibited: Point 4: Chain saws. That is expressly contained in this provision. This, I think, is also clarified... [[Abg. Vergestnichtisch: Read more!]] It also states that from the third academic year onwards it is permitted under supervision after the qualification examination, but not more than 50 per cent of the working time. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] Forget that, please! Second correction: Mrs Rauch-Kallat has said that you would not have said that our tax reforms would cost 200 billion schilling. That's wrong!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e5024	Deputies! A response to an actual correction is only possible under the conditions laid down in the Rules of Procedure. I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e5039	Mr President. Give me the grace to say: Mrs. Rauch-Kallat has corrected herself in the press service by saying that it...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e5069	The next speaker is Mr Volker Kier. – Mr Kier, do you want a voluntary speaking time, or should I stop the clock for 20 minutes? [[Abg. Dr. Kier: 20 minutes!]] Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e5102	Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! Mr President. High house! I will try to return to the real debate after we have had a little chatter here, and I would like to turn to the statements made by the two members of the government and try to do so in political contrast, because I was once again very disappointed: Both Mr Bundeskanzler and Mr Vice-Chancellor finally made statements here, which were at best thematic catalogues. They have already correctly recognized the problems that exist, but I could not actually discover any concrete solution in their empty-formal statements. As far as Mr Vice-Chancellor is concerned, I have a very strong impression that what he said here was actually almost exclusively hot air. In the word of the Federal Government, which is now very harmonious, I am improving this to "climate air". The bowl speaks "climate air". [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Mr Colleague! It was a Sunday talk!]] That is to say, he has apparently built up a sieve that provides well-tempered empty forms, and that is very unfortunate because the problem of unemployment is getting worse from day to day and structural unemployment is growing: It is increasing in the components of long-term unemployment, and it is increasing in the number of unemployed. But both of them seem to trigger in the Federal Government, but also in part in the social partners – I am still talking about it – rather inconceivable than decisive and genuine measures. What we have missed here today – and this would have been an opportunity for the Federal Government – were directional and binding announcements equipped with periods. But there were only indefinite announcements, for example: At some point we'll do that. Ladies and gentlemen! This federal government in its present composition has been ruling for ten years, so it is directly historically involved in the cause of what is the problem today. I do not want to say that the Federal Government is the main causer, but it has been "reasonably involved" in this, rather than through permanent bureaucracy-building - reduction, by permanent overregulation rather than by excessive regulation. As a result, the problem has developed at a low level, at a low level, where completely uneven partners are trying to solve something with completely uneven means: Today, we have job owners and the unemployed, and the unemployed are ultimately at the lower end of the slender level, and we almost ridiculed them with measures we are taking by, for example, finding no ways to return to work next to unemployment, perhaps initially with precarious conditions, part-time relationships and so on, because we have, in this case, shortage limits which are just a mockery of those affected. Mr Vergestnitsch has rightly said that the average unemployment benefit is 9 000 s. However, there is also unemployment benefit, which is clearly below it. There are also some with 7 000 S and below. If anyone could deserve something to do with it, he would immediately fail to have the completely inflexible rule that he should be in favour of the Low-technologies are totally catapulted from unemployment insurance, because it is hard to hold on to a world in which all full-time employment seems to have to be in, although we know today that if we wanted to bring all people into full-time employment, we would also need huge economic growth, one that could, in case of doubt, become so resource-degrading that we would deal with environmental problems through the back door. We should take the opposite path by, for example, favouring investments that are energy-saving and that reduce labour costs; my colleague Gredler will continue to address this. Ladies and gentlemen! This slender level is constitutional for our reform considerations in the Federal Government. I have tried to understand the famous agreement of the social partners. It was already difficult to put the timetable behind the strange commissions and working groups on a time series. But one thing I'm telling you: If you proceed with these plans, Mr Maderthaner and Mr Verzellnich, then the problem has disappeared before you finish the list of measures to resolve them. This is an inflexible solution for a problem that needs mobility, speed, creativity and imagination. And this paper is neither a paper of speed nor of creativity nor of flexibility nor of imagination, but it is a short-breath compromise of the social partners that will not keep. [[the speaker shall keep a document up to date]] Ladies and gentlemen! Today, as a speaker, I'm so to speak: In front of me, Mr Vergestnich, I think Mr Maderthaner is speaking. I am, so to speak, a social partnership sandwich today, and that is why I wanted to say it quite clearly. Whatever you say to me, Mr President Maderthaner, that does not change anything about it This is an outflow of bureaucracy, teased as a compromise, not suitable to solve the problem, and, moreover, due to its complication, probably rather dead right before it ever came to life. [[The speaker will once again keep a document up to date.]] [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] In this connection, I should like to present to you a motion for a resolution from my group, which deals with what could be done if we really wanted to make contributions in order to solve flexibilization in the context of a natural time arrangement, in the framework of the Working Time Act. It says: [[Quoted print version removed]] I should like to draw your attention to another important point: We have heard Mr Vergestnich, he has spoken of 50 hours, and I have not been able to follow him, because there is a harmonisation at international level, namely 48 hours, and that is harmonisation of social policy, for example, the ILO. I do not have to say that, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. If our social partners are now producing and writing 50 hours into their papers – I am already aware of this – I will tell you: These are perhaps only two hours, one will say; what are two hours in a week or in the life of a human being? – But it is exactly the two hours that prove that Austria and the social partners do not think for a second about actually harmonizing internationally. And that's embarrassing! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] It's embarrassing! I'm not going to let this one get away from me. It may seem small if I make such a cry for two hours, but I still believe that this is embarrassing, because if we want to go to Brussels and perhaps make some contracts for uniform social standards, then we will be able to stand by: You haven't even adhered to the ILO guidelines yet! – But this is done within the framework of the social partnership! If perhaps the "adult" federal government or a "wrong" opposition party does something like this, then one could say: Well, they want to take advantage of the situation now! From a liberal point of view, however, it is totally unbearable that one sets out conditions as one needs them. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] It's not social, it's not human, and it's not liberal. This is perhaps conservative or perhaps social democratic, I do not know exactly, I have not analyzed these two hours in this direction. But it seems to me that way! It's opportunistic, it's pragmatic, and it's humane, because since people are preoccupied at union congresses, they're being used for them all over the world, so they've forgotten it at home. And that's very, very bad. I'll tell you: That's bad, it's bad! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I am now submitting to you a further motion for a resolution from my group, which can also be easily put into effect here because, since the beginning of this legislative period and even during the last legislative period, we have regularly tried to put something into motion in the field of the world of work and in the field of unemployment, which the Federal Government has not normally taken note of or written down by its majority. One would be glad if the Federal Government were to write down something at least sometimes. The motion for a resolution is aimed at making part-time work models possible. It says: [[Quoted print version removed]] A footnote to this – this is a Ceterum Censeo of my group –: This is the so-called Swiss model, which allows it to gradually earn something in addition to unemployment benefit, without immediately losing it. Switzerland is probably free of any suspicion that it is made of social romance. But there are also humanitarian and liberal people there. I'll tell you: If we do not choose this approach, we will not solve the problem of unemployment, then we will always have people who are fully occupied and people who are fully unemployed. Ladies and gentlemen! We must make the transitions live, as we must at all endeavour to finally get away from the antique philosophy of the forced linkage of social security with the working world. We must get away from the fact that human dignity depends on whether one has worked before. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I could quote Dahrendorf at this point, but I say it with my own words and quite consciously: It has been fought in many, many decades of fundamental rights, human rights and civil rights, and we are now looking forward to a third of our population moving in a zone in which, for material reasons, it is no longer able to exercise these fundamental rights, in which freedom disappears because the fear of existence is enslaved. And then you are enslaved if you can't say no in decisive moments of your life, if you can't say no to an unreasonable work, if you can't say no to a person who's actually blackmailed but who can't be avoided. But we need a social system that decouples. On one point I am entirely of the opinion of Mr Vergestnich: I also do not think that people work only if we drive them with the big ox whip. I am firmly convinced that people also work for other reasons, that social reasons speak for social reasons, even reasons of self-realization, which is not possible anywhere in the world of work, I already know. I am aware of the fact that monotonous and uniform work does not serve self-realization per se. But the possibility of further development must also be extended through continuing and continuing training. Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been pointed out the human resources of our country. Only the people in our country and their best possible training are our real starting opportunities. Because much has been said about harmonisation – and Mr Haider has occasionally referred to it – I would like to say the following: Mr Haider! If you think that your formula has been ten years old now "Immigrants, unemployed people into the world of work!" A good means of solving the problem of unemployment is to be wrong, even for reasons of the structure of the world of work. In addition, this is inhuman and unacceptable. If Mr. Vice-Kanzler Schüssel then hangs on the "Schüssel-Formel" by saying that if we do not pay attention to the fact that our nurses are not married away and we have trained too few, then we have to go far abroad and hire Philippinos – he has, interestingly, not said to Philippin inside; this may have been an interesting promise at the time of the dispute about the position of women – so hire nurses, then I have to say: It seems to me that he is giving off a little bit similar to Mr Haider's. Only he has camouflaged it more beautifully; he has called himself the "good shark". So, the "good shark" speaks of the foreign nurses, and the "bad hairer" calls the child by name, namely, "moving off". And that is, I do not think, good in a debate that concerns the weak in society, and the foreign citizens in our country are the weak in our society, believe me. The Russian multimillionaires are not our statistical problem, they may be a criminal problem. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] I therefore believe that it would be time for conditions to be created, including by the Federal Government, for the decoupling of the working world from social security to be put on foot once. Every time we take the word "basic security" into the mouth, we are called: It's not financeable! Although the Minister of Finance has described this as an interesting model, it has shown an interesting approach, but he has shown financial scepticism. Now I'm telling you: Of course, it's a demanding project, but if you don't even examine the parameters if you don't disclose the data if you hide the social assistance budgets, instead of showing them if you call 7.5 billion schilling as a lump sum for labour market data and especially for AMS data, and don't say what really happens if you don't clearly define the volume, then you can't argue about it – in the best sense of the word. I'm telling you about the safety of a person who's been working on this for a long time: This can be financed as part of a comprehensive tax reform if you see it as an element of the tax system, for example, when you see it as a negative tax. It is not easy, it will be difficult, it will require a large social contract in the population, it will need a new generation contract, but if we do nothing new, but only the old one, which increasingly fails from day to day, tries to improve the old machine again and again, instead of designing a new construction, then we will not solve the problem. We must be reformatory, we must not remain pragmatic! Of course, one must have an eye measure on these things. So you will certainly admit, as a member of the Liberal Group, that I am not a violent revolutionary, but without upheavals in the system – and I say that quite consciously – it will not happen. On the one hand, if we look at how we fail to harmonise the taxation of international capital income, and on the other hand, Mr Haider says that monetary union is bad at all, and the third say: Well, you're going to have to do something about it in Maastricht, then I'm going to tell you: From a social point of view, monetary union is the prerequisite for the harmonisation of social policy, because only when I have a common currency on the European continent can I also set verifiable common social standards, because otherwise the individual governments are hiding behind the opacity of monetary relations. [[Accompaniment at the Liberal Forum]] Or do you know externally how the guilder stands for schilling, how the lira stands for the franc, how the pound stands for the D-mark? Do you know all this externally? – You certainly don’t know that externally! And of the fact that we do not know this externally, by the way, a relatively superfluous part of service providers in the Austrian banking system lives, and these are people whose jobs are at risk – but not because we want to make them unemployed, but because we no longer need God thanks to these superfluous services. We will have to think of how we use the service potential of these people to make sense, without putting them on the wall with our backs. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Another motion for a resolution tabled by my group: [[Quoted print version removed]] I think I have not only tried to present in rough outlines that real economic and social access to this problem is something inseparable, because it is not possible to deal with the working world and the unemployed without having the economic effects in mind. But it's also the other way round: We cannot make economic policy without keeping in mind the social needs. We need a new social contract. I say to you, with the very sad and sad clarity of an oppositional Member: If this Federal Government is not prepared to bring its relatively large majority into the dialogue in such a way that renewal comes about, then we will fail in the problem of unemployment, then we will fail socially, fail economic policy and democracy policy. Believe me! Then: It's not done with beautiful, empty dictionaries! Together it is possible – but you have to want it too! But if you don't even want it if you just stay with the empty formulas of yesterday, then the prognosis is unfavorable. But it is not yet too late, nor could the Federal Government, if it wanted, only take up the requests of the Liberal Forum. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e5294	Mr Dr Kier has tabled three motions for resolutions. All three motions for resolutions are sufficiently supported and are included in the negotiations. The next speaker was Mr Ing. Maderthaner. Please, honourable Member. Voluntary time limit: 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e5318	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! One could say that the polemic knows no bounds: First, the social partners will be drawn into inactivity if they discuss difficult problems a little longer, and then if there is an agreement, sand will be pushed into the gear immediately. They could hear from my previous speaker a lot of polemics, which in some things even says half the truth. But one thing I don't understand at all: Mr Haider is here a loss of income, which is far from taking place in order to make a bad mood, even though he should actually be interested in strengthening Austria's economic location. Ladies and gentlemen! The first question of a reporter to me yesterday was this: Well, aren't these billions of gifts to the entrepreneurs? – I have to say: If you can even talk about a gift at all, you can say at most that is a gift to the companies that can thus withstand the international competition better. But it's not a gift at all! This agreement is a necessity that we need to secure jobs, and that should be our concern. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The unemployment rate in Austria is currently around 300,000 people affected. These are human fates – although we are still good at this point in international comparison, also with the figures on youth unemployment, which certainly also concerns us, we are good at international comparison – and that is why we are invited to do something about it. The main reasons for this are known to us: On the one hand, it is a comprehensive structural change in the whole international economy – nobody will say that only in Austria these problems occur – and on the other hand, it is also a lower economic dynamic that inhibits the growth of the Austrian economy. Ladies and gentlemen! Sufficient work can only be ensured in the long run if we maintain our own strength in international competition and mobilise all the forces that strengthen economic growth. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We therefore need an offensive strategy, a positive strategy through which the strengths of the Austrian economy are particularly used and can also be implemented accordingly. This is not a measure, it is certainly a matter of several. Economic dynamics and thus the safeguarding and creation of jobs require concrete and several measures, for example – I try to present only a few – of support for business start-ups, of strengthening the equity of Austrian firms; I am going to be in line with what Mr Haider has presented here. One can talk about the amount so to speak of non-taxation, but I am sure that the FPÖ has also jumped on this train, because I have already arrived in October... [[Abg. Haigermoser: Mr Colleague! I have here the request which we both have already made in 1991...!]] Mr Haigermoser! You need to read a little bit better. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Protocol!]] My first request for capitalisation by reducing the taxation of unabsorbed profits is from exactly 18th century onwards. ==References== You can read it at any time! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Subsequent calls to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mr Haigermoser! I have already presented the capital increase here more than twenty times. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: You've been in the government for so long!]] Perhaps you should have said earlier that something had already gone on, but we can still proceed together. However, we also need further forcing research and development; there are concrete approaches in this area, as you have heard. We also need an even greater export promotion or even greater commitment to it; we also want to address this positively and offensively. [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] Furthermore, when I talk about measures, I have to say that - improvements in our education system. It is important to further improve the proven training system that has led to our good skilled workers, and lifelong learning must be made everyday work. In addition, I have said that very often, and we need to work on it, we need a reduction in additional labour costs. – These are just some examples I wanted to bring here. Ladies and gentlemen! But concrete action can also exist, for example, in failing state regulations, allowing the economy more freedom of movement and scope. Economic dynamics, however, also requires a constructive working environment of the social partners. We need – I want to put it this way – the fight for jobs, but not a labour struggle! No one would understand this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A concrete step in the right direction was our yesterday's agreement on the flexibility of working time. Mr Kier said: What's the matter, the disaster is already preprogrammed?- Oh, my God! To this end, I should like to say very clearly: Some 600 collective agreements are negotiated and concluded each year. So we have great practice here. The first is the collective agreement, which is also contained in this paper, and only then, when no agreement can be reached between the parties to the collective agreement, does a so-called conciliation procedure begin, and in this we have tried to formulate things accordingly. First, however, is the collective agreement. Ladies and gentlemen! With this agreement, a great concrete step has been taken towards flexibilising working time and thus ensuring existing jobs. I expressly say: to safeguard it. However, this agreement does not free us from the concerns about the unemployed, nor do I say that at the same time. Mr Haselsteiner! This morning I was called by a large German company that congratulated me for this agreement. They said, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, You're a step further than we are in Germany! It should be acknowledged here that this is a positive step that finds recognition elsewhere. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: He won't know what you really did!]] - I assume so. Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian Chamber of Commerce has already proposed a 15-point programme for an employment offensive more than a year ago, which should continue to implement and implement it. I just recall a few points: for example, the clear demand for the stop and the removal of bureaucratic obstacles to private and public investment. We will have to do something in this area, because it is a barrier to the economy if one does not move on. We have also said very clearly that we must take concrete steps to combat undeclared work and pusserism; I should like to say this in all its forms. It is good that technology offensive and export offensive now take concrete shape and that an important signal has been sent to young entrepreneurs with the start-up savings. I am delighted to say that practitioners from the economy will be involved, namely Director-General Hochleitner, Director-General Pühringer and Dr. Dernoscheg from the small and medium-sized sectors. That's gratifying, that's important and helps us, I think, one step further. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Nicer.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Indeed, the 3 billion schilling from the CA-privatisation proceeds must be used specifically for the research and development of our products and product branches – I would like to maintain this very clearly and clearly here – and should not simply serve to increase university finance hidden. The economy is not only demanding better and financial conditions for the export offensive, but it has itself taken initiatives to make it easier for small and medium-sized enterprises in particular to offer their products and services abroad. The many Austrian industrial enterprises, which are also active in far away countries, have to be supported by a large number of small and medium-sized enterprises in export. We will then be able to see positive results in terms of job development. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Nicer.]] Direct contacts, consultations and concrete assistance, supporting points in virtually all countries of the world today are available to every entrepreneur who wants to take the step across the borders of our country. In discussions, discussions with entrepreneurs, I have learned what is especially dear to the owners of small and medium-sized enterprises. Accordingly, we will further develop and strengthen export advice, particularly for small and medium-sized enterprises. We will continue to intensify foreign language training, and the number of courses for export professionals will be doubled. I therefore ask for the creation and establishment of export vocational colleges very specifically, because I believe that we need to train more professionals. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Austrian export development is not as bad as it is often presented. Today, we have heard from our vice-chandant bowl that exports increased by 13 percent in 1996 – and this is a very clear figure. This means, in addition to the export rate, an increase of about 2.9 percentage points, which corresponds to about 28 000 jobs. That also means: If we did not have this increase, our unemployment rates would be even higher. Thus, in 1996 alone, 28 000 jobs were secured by additional exports. The fact that imports have increased even more – and this must be said and admitted here – has led to a deterioration in the trade balance. We therefore have to do everything we can to promote products and services in our own country: through appropriate research and development. If imports are growing more strongly than exports, this means that the Austrians are generally well deserved, as they can afford the imported goods; this is also to be said clearly and clearly. But again: We should do everything we can to secure exports and promote research and development in our own country. Internationalization is whether we want it or not, becoming reality, and is taking on more and more shape. We must take note of this, focus on it, and seek suitable ways for ourselves. The internationalization, ladies and gentlemen, is not a force of nature that we are helpless to, but we have to take appropriate steps. We can and must influence the international and national level ourselves, because globalisation begins in our own country and ends in our own business. Losers will be those who isolate themselves, insist on existing ones, and believe that they will only have to defend their possessions until the end, even though it is no longer so interesting or financeable. Ladies and gentlemen! The economy has already shown a high degree of flexibility, since the Austrian firms have been able to create 90 000 jobs each year, each of which is about 100 000. This is very much in absolute numbers, but certainly not enough. So we have something to do in this area. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We take the initiative for a secure work with a future. Let us create the legal and economic framework to ensure that as many companies as possible are able to cope with the structural change without the burden of the workplace and without the burden of the public sector. The pity is not the right thing and only costs time and a lot of strength. We must make positive strategies! I am confident that if we mobilise all forces - Parliament, the government and the social partners - we will deal with structural change, that our economy can continue to grow dynamically and thus guarantee work and social security in the third millennium.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e5471	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e5493	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! The 300 000 unemployed in Austria are not helping intentions, nor are they helping commissions, not expert rounds, but just measures; measures containing specific figures, data and deadlines. And I missed these in all the explanations of you. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Deputies! I'm surprised you're going out here and say on the one hand: We will closely monitor whether unemployment rates are halved at European level! – I think it is right that this is closely observed by the Trade Union Confederation – but on the other hand, the trade union in Austria does not call for the reduction, the minimization of the Austrian unemployment figures. The Federal Government has not made any statement as to how much action can be taken to reduce the number of unemployed. – We have expected this today, ladies and gentlemen, and this would have been necessary in order to finally move forward. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! They have built here the "golden triangle" consisting of budget consolidation, growth policy and employment policy. But I think that this is a Bermuda triangle. In this mediterranean area of budget consolidation, growth and employment, hundreds of thousands of jobs have already been lost – millions at European level. Clearly, growth has also been lost – precisely because of this budgetary consolidation course, which has not only taken up Austria but also 15 European states and others beyond the EU. That's the problem: The interaction of all these factors has given us unemployment figures against which we today – and this has been emphasized by your side – have not a patent recipe. But I would have liked to see the effort from your side, namely the effort you have actually put into figures, within certain time limits here in Austria, to reduce the number of unemployed – that was the real issue of this debate, ladies and gentlemen! At the 1994 referendum, in the 1995 elections, in the Government Declarations which were subsequently given by your side, you have repeatedly pointed out that: The fight against unemployment is a top priority. What happened, ladies and gentlemen? We have rising unemployment rates. We cannot be comforted by the fact that the Federal Chancellor is producing himself here and says in the middle of February that at the end of February the unemployment rate may be around 3,000 or 4,000. That's not enough for me! I would like to see this problem taken seriously by the Federal Government that concrete statements are made. Ladies and gentlemen! You've had time in recent years. You have had time to follow up your announcements. You promised the Austrians something you did not comply with. You are not true to your word! You didn't say you were wrong. They have come out here and, starting with the Cecchini report, which was also the basis of all the declarations of the Austrian Federal Government as regards growth and employment in Europe, have promised the Austrians, but also the citizens of Europe, an increase of 2 to 5 million employees within concrete deadlines. This has not happened, ladies and gentlemen. There has been enough criticism that it has not arrived. You did not care about it, but you still represent the line: It is possible, if we do not limit the economy, to create only modest framework conditions, growth and with growth, employment as well. All scientists who are to be taken seriously will object to you and dispute that there is still a serious link between growth and employment today. You should take the consequences! We need to look for other ways, other instruments. I would like, ladies and gentlemen, that you, at European level, including this Austrian Federal Government, make the promise that They have received, taken seriously, take seriously in relation to what is now being negotiated at the European Intergovernmental Conference: Employment in Europe, not just halving unemployment, but anchoring serious employment policies as the basis of a future European Treaty. What is the position of the Austrian Federal Government in this regard? - I haven't heard much about it yet. Yes, employment is to be integrated, but concrete, recognizable steps, measures to review employment within Europe, sanctions to enforce it against the Member States, just as there are sanctions in the Stability Pact. But you do not intend to lay down such sanctions. You feel that you want to do it in terms of employment as you have promised in terms of social policy in Europe. You also acted full-bodied and said: We will bring social policy into Europe! Those were your explanations. However, when it came to anchoring social policy in its own chapter, you have ultimately had to admit small amounts and the Austrian ideas have deleted social policy for the European Intergovernmental Conference, ladies and gentlemen. Now you are also going back in the field of employment policy. Do it this way – we have a request here – as you have probably discussed it and as it is necessary to achieve an approximate balance between monetary union and an employment union. Consider the conditions under which employment policy can take place in Europe, not only with control measures, but also with clear sanctions for those Member States that do not comply with the conditions. This is possible, this has been discussed, and there is also broad consensus between the experts. Only you, ladies and gentlemen of the government, obviously lack the courage to take a step forward at European level. What I miss in this Federal Government's European policy is to take a step forward – possibly together with other countries – and to get out of the cover and not only to go somewhere in the equinox of the countries between Germany and France, to develop independent positions that will help people in Europe in terms of employment. Ladies and gentlemen! It really raises the question of what has been achieved in Europe with the unbridled single market, which you have helped on your feet, for employment. Haven't you eaten a schmair? Haven't you perhaps been deceived and flattered by the messages that have been sent out from your side and from your expert side in recent years, such as: If growth comes, then employment will also come!Unknown term type: "%s".? A French sociologist and thinker, Pierre Bourdieu, has tried to characterise this attitude that exists in a few words regarding the internal market, the unbridled growth and the freedoms of a frontier-free market in Europe. I read to: "There is currently something like a collective blindness. All that surrounds the currency, the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund or the Deutsche Bundesbank has become an almost already religious phenomenon. The slogans so frnetically issued – globalization, flexibility: You don't know what that means; it's only vague, vague terms in circulation like a religious confession. Today neoliberalism, the belief in the free market and its forces, is what in the Middle Ages was the ‘communis doctorum opinio’, the common conviction of the scholars, a teaching building." – Ladies and gentlemen! Sometimes it is also an empty building with double-e. The problem we have in Europe today is that you have not only lost the conviction – otherwise you would have more clearly expressed the view that these growth ideologies in Europe could create employment – but that you also know that in the context of information technologies employment growth is only very conditional; Growth alone may be possible, but the information technologies do not bring the number of employees you have repeatedly prophesied to us in the past, which you know as well as we do. Nevertheless, in this debate, as in Austria and in Europe, you are still trying to reflect on the people that there is a kind of healing lesson in which you can actually move something. Ladies and gentlemen! There's no such thing as a cure. Whoever she promises: It's not there! It is not the free market, it is not the information technologies, it is neither an employment programme for itself nor other individual, isolated measures. Ladies and gentlemen! The question arises which way we go in Europe and in Austria. There is no doubt that we have to discuss differently than before when we were in isolation, namely going to what could help us in Austria. We are now a part of Europe, whether we want it or not, whether we have considered the time and the prospects to be right or not, and we cannot press ahead with responsibility, which is why we also call upon you to take responsibility, which you are trying to give and from which you want to steal. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is a pity that it is possible, on the one hand, through liberalised capital and financial markets to transfer billions in order to make them most taxable, and on the other hand, in Austria, the savings book of the small saver is taxed by 25 percent of the capital. One considers this to be pangs when one knows what is actually transferred through foundations in order not to have to pay the capital income tax in this way. – And this is the problem that we have to deal with in relation to employment in this country. When Mr Rudas, the new head of the SPÖ, says: We must learn to put in place certain economic-friendly measures and to keep the effects as low as possible! I must say: I would like to hear something more clear from the head of the SPÖ, namely what he means by that: the continuation of this policy, which has not brought anything at all in terms of employment, which has led to the fact that the distribution situation in Europe is even more unfair, that the freedom of the market does not actually offer the same freedom for all? A French sociologist, not Bourdieu, said: The freedom of the market is comparable to the freedom of the fox in a chicken barn, where it only has to do with free chickens. – That means very clearly that there are different interests that you, ladies and gentlemen, cannot bring to a denominator. There are uneven opportunities to obtain incomes that ensure survival for the unemployed in particular, there is an uneven distribution of incomes, there is an uneven distribution of working time. In today's debate, you have not yet addressed the uneven distribution of working time. The measures you are taking with regard to flexibilization do not help us further, they aggravate the disparity of working time, they do not eliminate it. There's no one and no patent recipe you can do with. However, I would at least like you to say, if you address flexibility, that only if flexibility is linked to the reduction of working time can you actually create jobs. But you lack courage to do so! Ladies and gentlemen! They are always referring to the Dutch example when it comes to referring to the development of parttime work there or to other measures made by Holland in recent years as a very modern social state. Look at exactly what the Dutch have done. They would then have to achieve other results. The Dutch have concluded a social pact in 1982, which has included a wage reduction – we also have it – but at the same time a reduction in working time. This was decided in 1982, and this was consistently carried out. The Dutch now have a part-time labour force of almost 40 percent, which is only because the Dutch have a social security scheme which carries this part-time work because the Dutch actually receive an old-age pension, a basic income in old age. The coffee, the cappuccino, the milk and then the price of cocoa, as it is translated in the "Cappuccino example". This is different from in Austria. If you are so happy to use Dutch examples and individual cases, then look at how capital taxation works in Holland. In Austria we have a capital tax of 25 percent, in Holland there are uniform peak tax rates of 60 percent on all types of income. Ladies and gentlemen! I am not saying that this should be copied or taken over by Austria, but: The Dutch example obviously works something different and not just as you would like it to refer to a measure. The problem in Europe is that economic and social integration is disparate, which is also true of Austria. Structures must be developed against the rule of the financial and capital markets at European level. As the Austrian Federal Government, you are discussing and developing proposals for the implementation of the Tobin tax and models for the implementation of a value added tax at European level! – But please with concepts that have hands and feet and that do not constantly contradict each other. It would be very useful to continue there and also to set up initiatives on the part of the Austrian Federal Government. It would be useful – and this is what we call for in our request – to extend the value-added levy, when discussed, by means of a bit, a taxation of the information units processed in a farm. This makes sense, can make sense and is also discussed at European level. However, there is a lack of impetus from the Member States, which is why we are proposing this so that the Austrian Federal Government finally develops a concept, looks at these things more closely and not only speaks about them in individual words. We are therefore proposing the following resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] That was the wrong request. Excuse me, that was the request that I made at the same time for the reduction of overtime. Ladies and gentlemen! It is necessary to make good use of the scope we also have at national level. Perhaps it is now the case that the unemployed in the Federal Republic of Germany are killing the convergence criteria that were deliberately developed by the German Federal Government and also the monetary union, which was also developed by the German Federal Government. That would be imaginable. In recent years, these convergence criteria have created a major burden for Europe in terms of social policy and social development, including Austria with the I and the II savings package. Nevertheless, there are scopes to be used and which you can use, for example, through an environmental offensive that goes far beyond the eco-tax concept that we have also proposed and developed by Greens. Ladies and gentlemen! In this area, a lot would be possible, not just thermal building renovation, not just drilling holes in the area of transport infrastructure. That's the wrong concept! You need to develop regional areas and transport infrastructures! It would be possible and necessary to carry out an educational offensive, to invest in foreign languages for adults, but also for young people, in smaller classrooms, in adult education and in educational leave, and to improve apprenticeship training, thereby bringing thousands of unemployed teachers into employment rather than working as taxi drivers and wasting their resources. – Ladies and gentlemen! How do you explain that tanks are needed in Austria instead of investment in education? A working time offensive, which also deals with the topic of overtime – as mentioned in this request – would be necessary. It would also be necessary to discuss new labour market instruments and new strategies as well as to introduce a work or educational leave instead of a dishwashing course with which entrepreneurs obviously even want to spare themselves to explain to the workers how to wash plates properly. A social offensive would be necessary. The AMS should be completely re-examined in its approach to new instruments of labour market policy. [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] Unemployment is ruining the social state! If we do not make serious efforts together, then we will not continue. [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign the other day.]] We therefore propose a commission of inquiry, which is constantly concerned with unemployment in Austria...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e5680	Deputies! I ask for your conclusion, the speaking time has expired.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e5695	We propose a committee of inquiry which is constantly concerned with unemployment in Austria and not just at a special meeting, ladies and gentlemen. Then you and we would be forced together...
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e5726	Deputies! Excuse me, your speaking time is over. The motion for a resolution on the concept of overtime reduction, which you have proposed, is sufficiently supported and will be included in the negotiations. I now give the floor to Mr. Farnleitner the word. – Minister! I would remind you that we agreed to a speaking time of no more than 10 minutes for members of the government. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e5753	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Dear colleagues! High house! In the field of my ministry, I would like to make more detailed information on some of the issues I have often mentioned. We have found that in Germany's high-rise construction as in federal road construction – in this area we will invest a total of 22 billion Schilling in this year – the speed of investment has increased significantly, the average duration of approval has become shorter and that, ultimately, there is a better awareness of the precise implementation of projects. We can therefore assume that the expected employment effect of well over 20 000 workers will, in any case, occur quickly and as expected. There, where I feel particularly responsible, is a subject that I would like to describe as follows: In my area of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, it is not about creating jobs, but about letting them work. I believe that in the past, in Austria, we have been focusing on approval in too many areas and not on making work, which is why, in many areas, it will be a matter of helping those who know what they can do and what they want to do in the implementation process through more flexible and faster framework conditions. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I would like to give an example: The famous 1981 regulation, which has been mentioned several times today, which first stands on many sides, which an apprentice is not allowed to do, should, as quickly as possible, bring into a version which enables a reading apprentice, an instructor or an entrepreneur to determine on a few sides what he is allowed to do and under what premises he must take care of. That would be a quantum leap. Now to my areas: We have seen – as unsatisfying for many of the current conditions of the shop opening – that after about six weeks, some 5,000 jobs are new on the market, half of which are part-time, while the other half are regular jobs. I also expect from the trade order you will have in the House in a few weeks, as well as from the plant law already in the House, de facto a possible closure of the dramatic entrepreneurship or corporate gap in Austria. If we introduce the sub-sector, if we introduce the related trade, if we facilitate the conditions of admission and assume that in many cases it will also come to employment, then we have achieved relatively quickly something that actually works on the labour market. – You will see all of this in a few days or weeks. One point on the question of apprentices: If, in the next few days, we will agree on a new vocational training law and on an internal cost and burden compensation for apprenticeships and the High House to submit the relevant legislative proposals, we will be able to send important signals to the trainees for the next apprenticeship season, which will enable them to enter the now growing years in order to promote the employment rate among young people. A few words on deregulation in general: Ladies and gentlemen! At a meeting of the Industry Council in The Hague in the last few weeks, the President of Philips, Director-General Boonstra, said: Philips has begun to place many new products on the market in America, because until a notebook can be placed on the market in the European internal market – which has been so criticised by some speakers today – nine permits are required. And until we have done the nine approvals for twelve languages, a product in America is already on the market for the third year, and it has probably already proved successful. We therefore need to adapt our old regulations much faster in Europe and also in Austria where new technologies are being used – or the move of time passes us and realizes the new developments in the neighbouring countries. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A few words on the export offensive addressed: On the basis of detailed analyses, we have come to believe that our main problem is a single market deficit and that in many countries - I am now thinking of earlier EFTA countries - the single market has not yet achieved the trade status we had, for example, in our EFTA membership. It is therefore a matter of a lot: in particular, marketing aid for consumer goods products, where we are simply under-represented from England to Portugal and Spain. I am particularly thinking about what my previous speaker has said about the training offensive. I would like to have a university of export. We should engage in export courses in many secondary schools and trade academies so that young graduates can enter the export professions so urgently needed and do not have to study for a long time. A few words on the questions of research: For example, the research billion 1 – the research billions 2 and 3 are expected in the following years – shows how quickly you can benefit from the multiplier. I have donated a 150 million Schilling venture capital fund from the part of the first research billion, in which a large German bank – almost with the same amount of money – immediately took part, the European Investment Bank and an Austrian bank, so that we have a fund of a few hundred billion money available for investment in new top technologies. We should use public funds where they produce multiplier effects. The same applies to investments in traditional research institutions: FFF, Christian-Doppler-Gesellschaften, Joint Research Institutes of the Industrial Industry. In the field of research, we have the highest multiplier effect for employment. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President! I come to the conclusion: It is important to me that we bear in mind what the great stability of employment in Austria is based on in comparison to our European neighbours, namely three factors: First, on unbroken strong exports, Secondly, in small and medium-sized enterprises as stabilizers in the labour market, and Thirdly, on an unbroken high level of consumption, which is possible in Austria due to the spasm pad. We should ensure that, through confidence in employment policy, citizens support and continue to help us with these strategies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e5850	Thank you, Minister of State. Mrs Reitsamer is now on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e5875	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Federal Minister! Today's special meeting, initiated once again by the "F", deals with the topics "Bündnis für Arbeit", "Stop the sale of the Austrian economy!"Fight against unemployment with job offensive". It all sounds wonderful as long as you don't ask more closely how the "F" imagines it. These special meetings and urgent requests do not create a single job, but there is an additional burden on Parliament's staff. And we don't need to talk about the costs here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rossmann.]] Calm down again, ladies and gentlemen. You have an opportunity to speak here. On the other hand, today the government parties are also bringing forward a motion for a resolution. [[Quoted print version removed]] Since the measures in the construction sector are particularly well placed here, I would like to say that there was an employment effect of 40 600 jobs already in 1996 through the support package for the Austrian construction industry. This will always be very shamefully silent here. It does not fit into the concept. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I have considered the list of urgent requests made by the liberals dealing with the unemployment problem: 30. 1. 1996, 22. 5. 1996, 18. 6. 1996, 10. 7. 1996, 29. 11th@item: inlistbox 1996. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meisinger.]] Mr. Meisinger! They're still coming. Take your time! Listen to what I'm saying! I say that would be nothing bad in itself if one at least took note of the answers! But these can still be so massively supported by facts, one simply does not take note of these facts. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] For example, it has not been noted that at the end of last year the unemployment rate was admittedly high, but at the same time we had the highest level of self-employed workers. We have always been accused of being inactive to politicians and simply pretended that there was no active labour market policy in Austria. Since you repeat, ladies and gentlemen of the "F", I am allowed to do so. More money for active labour market policies by means of ESF funds, 200 million schilling for youth employment measures. It is a fact that between 1994 and 1996, the number of young people who have pushed on the labour market increased by 8 700. But we are also taking measures in 1997: 800 million schillings are used according to the AMS announcement. This will affect 8 500 people. Now to the next point. On Sunday in the "press hour" was to be heard: There is no incentive to employ apprentices. You can only take them for jause and cleaning. Since Mr Farnleitner today referred to the legibility of the regulations on the law on child and youth workers, I would like to say: She's not that hard to read either. But it obviously cannot even read Mr. Dr. Haider. It dates back to 1981, and I must say that. Because here's all that's inside, what he asked for on Sunday. That's all fact! But you don't say that. I would just like to make one statement: Apprenticeships must not work on certain machines and thus cannot learn their profession. Although this Regulation prohibits young people from working on dangerous machinery or certain dangerous work, it first provides for exceptions for apprentices according to age or age. Secondly, the machine section contains the rule that all bans on machinery will not apply – and that was it, Dr. Haider! – if the typical hazards are eliminated by appropriate measures. Thirdly, there is the possibility of applying for modest exceptions from all the bans on labour inspectorates. The number of applications – that is to be read – is limited. Therefore, this regulation has been used relatively well. Other measures I would like to address: Advisory and qualification measures, measures for women in atypical professions, education and training. For further training, 400 million Schilling from the AMS are planned again in 1997. Subject: 20 000 people in employment. Infrastructure development. For long-term unemployed, for example by reducing social security contributions, promote those companies that employ such long-term unemployed. Bons-Malus system – here mentioned several times – for older workers. In this way, there is a clear priority for legal employment, which is a concern for all of us. Export offensive: Their objective is to reach an export rate of 28 to 30 percent by the year 2000 compared with currently 25 percent. In 1997, there will also be 12 000 job opportunities for long-term unemployed and problem groups. 200 million schillings are used for unemployed people to apply outside the place of residence. And this is very important for us women: Of these, 11 000 will be women with child care obligations. As already in 1996, investments are being made in billions, by well-known companies such as Hoffmann-La Roche, Siemens, Philips, Opel, BMW and so on. However, other large companies will not just feel invited to invest in our country if you continue to see your main task in drawing a global down scenario that, despite – admittedly – there is no very tense labour market situation. Ladies and gentlemen! ==References== Mr. Federal Chancellor Klima presented his statement of government here in front of this House, describing the fight against unemployment as the central issue of the future and as important steps to achieve this objective, including a high-performance infrastructure, increased exports, support for small and medium-sized enterprises, reform of the business system and the recovery of other international investors. I would also like to refer to the motion for a resolution which I have tabled today. It already testifies to very special fairness if you have left the Federal Chancellor for the implementation of these plans for all eight days, Dr. Haider! Because already in your press conference of 6. 2. In 1997, you announced the call for the special meeting today. That's what I call measuring with two measurements! On Sunday you said at the "press hour" that you would not create 80 000 jobs in the next five to eight years, because you would not tax unabsorbed business profits, while at the same time removing the investment exemption. Eight years at eight days! – a comparison that does not need to be made more closely. I can't tell you that the former Federal Chancellor, Dr. Vrannitzky, in whom you have never left a good hair, created at least 300 000 jobs in his ten years of government. So you'll have to lay a very nice tooth! It's already devilish with the comparisons! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] For the sake of completeness, it should be noted that there has already been the tax advantage of unabsorbed corporate profits. It was abolished in 1988 or 1989 because it proved to be a flop. Even without tax incentives, there should be a self-responsibility of the entrepreneur, which is to withdraw from the company only as much as it can easily handle in the long term. The acquisition of new machinery was also discussed in connection with the tax advantage of unabsorbed profits. Not that I evaluate it negatively... [[Abg. May. Schreiner: Tell the Minister of Finance!]] Calm down, Mr Mag. Schreiner! You will still speak. With the in-between yelling, you skip half of it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Schreiner: The corporate tax regime has lifted the Constitutional Court!]] You didn't watch out. You don't know what I've been talking about! I've been talking about the unscathed corporate profits. But apples and pears together also result in a mixed plot, Mr. Col. Schreiner! [[Abg. May. Schreiner: You're making an old speech!]] No, you're wrong. Read what I said back then. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: (to Abg. May. Schreiner) You can't judge that!]] If you don't bring anything yourself, you can't judge much. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I do not think it is negative if companies always update their machinery. But new machines often lead to job rationalization. Where will the jobs come from? A tax reform should also be financed. They make it easy and easy to refer to the pension reserves of the national banking staff. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] These reserves have been collected by the employees. You don't do that. A handle in the foreign pockets is taken so long uncritically until the next handle takes place in the next foreign bag. For you, this is not a problem at all! But once upon a time a very miserable era has begun with grips in foreign pockets, and we all know how this has ended. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Yes, Vrnitzky 1987!]] Nevertheless, not everyone is willing to turn away from it permanently. It sounds rather adventurous what you have given of yourself – although you have to admit that it sounds good as long as you do not think about it. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Communism is already dead!]] The 23 billion won't be enough, Dr. Haider! Do you put this off after a year, or where do you take the money for the following years? – But you don’t need to say you just need to light up, we’re used to that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! You can't get me out of peace, even if you're still yelling! Fighting unemployment is the biggest challenge for our federal government. It will be measured by this. She will face this challenge! A quote from the GPA chairman from the last days is significant for what is happening today. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: The euro costs thousands of jobs!]] "Persistent unemployment undermines trust in the state and its representatives like a sluggish poison. It makes vulnerable to narrow-track magogens that promise authoritarian sham solutions." – You do! That's exactly what we're confronted with every day by your side. Again and again, public regulation and premeditation are criticized, especially in relation to workers' protection. This means that there is a negative impact on the labour market, on economic growth, on purchasing power. But the more the state withdraws from the economy, the more skrupellos the competition becomes. This even endangers the democratic system of society. [[Abg. Meisinger: When will you refund?]] The increase in turnover and the increase in own income are legitimate for so long, as long as jobs are not inevitably sacrificed. Because at some point the circle closes, and private consumption goes back massively. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Did you have this speech written by the KPÖ?]] In contrast to you, I'm used to writing my own speeches. I don't need as big a relief team as you do! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The constant intervening of the individual states with even lower wages and even lower social contributions will eventually end at the foot of the Ural. You will remember these words later! It has been said that labour-related taxes in Austria would be higher than in other EU countries and comparable countries and that this would be the reason for the many insolvencys. I ask you: Then why is there a record of insolvency in Germany and, to name a comparable state, in Switzerland? Something about your world picture can't be right. The complaints about the high additional wage costs with us also belong to the day-to-day business. Indeed significant for the entrepreneur are the unit labour costs, and the development in this area is absolutely talking about the competitiveness of the production site in Austria. Federal Minister Hostasch said at her opening press conference: "Our economy needs optimism as a prerequisite for competitiveness, good mood, political stability and attractiveness of the economic location, stable social conditions, good skills of employees and reliability in performance." – I fully agree with that. But today's action of the liberals is once again striving for the opposite. Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! Federal Minister Hostasch recently presented a pilot project on a voluntary basis for 1,000 long-term unemployed and called her political credo reasonable concessions instead of lazy compromises. I am convinced that it will continue with all its strength and great experience the successful path of its predecessors. The rising unemployment and the number of people working for the first time – and we have heard today that there is a slight relaxation – are very concerned about social democrats. We will work tirelessly to tackle this problem even better. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] A working group of my group has shown how, despite changing conditions, the Austrian path of prosperity and social compensation can be continued under the main condition of a prosperous economy. For this, there are global, European and also national solutions that are still being discussed controversially, but there are a number of additional approaches. It is all better to use creativity than to spread fear slogans through public spectacles. Ladies and gentlemen! We often complain of de-olidarization in our society. We must be aware that unemployment is not only a tragic fate of individual people but also a national economic problem. On Sunday I also heard that policy is bad if unemployment increases. All European countries are facing rising unemployment, with the most diverse forms of government. Even if this can by no means calm us: Austria is still relatively favourable. It can be seen that only one European-wide trusts in problem-solving capacity: An immeasurable self-esteem is reflected in the proposals presented on Sunday. We Social Democrats will continue and strengthen all the measures taken to combat unemployment. In addition, we will try to develop and implement further practical solutions. In no way will we put our hands in the lap and wait for the trend change announced by economic researchers for 1999. We know what we owe Austrians. Despite the demands for a withdrawal of politics and at the same time a loosely expressed debt claim on those acting in politics, my group feels and – I am convinced of this – our government partner is also required. We will manage it, though with great effort. But for which we are certainly not available, anxiety and the opposite play out of different groups.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e6168	Mrs Reitsamer has tabled a resolution on comprehensive initiatives by the Federal Government to combat unemployment. This request is sufficiently supported and is included in the negotiation. It has read parts of this application during its speech and has presented the key points in certain parts. With regard to the scope of this application, I have a copy in accordance with § 53 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure, the reproduction and distribution of this application. The next speaker was Mr Feurstein. Please, honourable Member. Mr. Dr. Feurstein, are you very surprised? – A quarter of an hour of voluntary speaking time. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Excuse me, that was a mistake. I apologize, even for my question. Mr Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e6208	Mr President. High house! At today's special meeting of the Freemans, we have had a temporary high degree of diplomatic visit. The German ambassador has even been interested in the employment programme we present to you today. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You could have heard the same thing in the special sessions a year ago if only you had listened. But it was only reflections that you received at the time to the requests of the liberals. It was insults and precepts that your party president Vranitzky liked very well, but did not get any employment. You have just given you the look for the necessary! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] At the special meeting in May last year, your former Minister of Economic Affairs Ditz announced a working time flexibility before winter, otherwise an employment crisis would be in danger of construction. A further special meeting of the liberals has been necessary so that you have made this promise at least on the last day. Obviously, you only act if we convene special meetings. But there's nothing in between! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Despite all these conditions, you still have the forehead to make working time flexibility on the back of the worst earners at the expense of those workers who depend on overtime. They do not even find it worth presenting the compensation for these levels of income here uno actu, but they carry out a working time flexibility which brings 5 to 10 billion schilling to the economy and is carried out on the back of the small people. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Victor Adler is turning around in the grave, Mr. Federal Chancellor! – Unfortunately, you are not here now, but you will certainly be told. The "F" has been undistorted on this question. We have said that the EU lacks the employment programme. Today, you also say that the employment programme is very important for the Maastricht criteria. When we asked for this half a year ago, you claimed that the liberals had no idea, such a thing would not be possible at all. We said that new technologies must be opened up to new industries. They said liberalisation would not be possible. Today, every second word of the Federal Chancellor is: EC internal market, free movement of goods, free movement of goods, free movement of goods, free movement of goods, free movement of goods, free movement of persons, free movement of persons, free movement of persons, free movement of persons, free movement of persons, free movement of persons, free movement of persons, free movement So you also needed a year in this respect – from our first special sessions in 1996 to 1997 – until you took off. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The own resources – it is ultimately an investment barrier in Austria – are 50 percent higher in the Netherlands than in Austria, as the Federal Chancellor knows exactly since his recent trip. This is the reason why in Holland, contrary to the claims made by Mrs Reitsmer, the employment figures are rising and unemployment is falling. That is why the Minister of Finance was also in Holland, which I warmly recommended to him in my last speech. There he can learn something! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] He has also taken our proposals seriously when it comes to government reform. We said: One out of the resort; One came out of the resort. We said: Lock into the resort; Schlögl has come into the resort. We said: Hums to the anchors; Hums has come to his caps. The climate, we said, we put it on top of it; he did too. So he has listened to us, at least what has affected government reform. The dam is broken with what I believe. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Not quite!]] The "F" proposals are implemented as far as the eye is concerned. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The gentlemen of the ÖVP also say – as I hear from Landeshauptmann Deputy Dr. Leitel – that: Just because a proposal comes from the "F", he's not bad yet. This means the profits that have not been taken away. You too are moderate and begin to qualify, instead of just giving reflections of yourself, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But it doesn't help you: They're running after you. They are following international developments. This has been particularly evident today when Minister Farnleitner spoke about the apprentices. A year ago, in the Committee on Industry, he had forgotten all his own apprenticeship proposals from the ÖVP. The Liberals have put forward these proposals, and the Minister has averted and said: No, we will eventually be discussing a Commission. Today he says: In the question of apprentices, we will soon be making the big breakthrough. A year ago, in the Committee on Industry, he said that he could, unfortunately, worship God for a teaching workshop arrangement. He had forgotten all the other benefits of apprenticeship training at the time. At present it is like this: The AHS student is provided free of charge, but the apprentice is chargeable. Vocational training has suffered enormously. We have requested a change, and now the government is in favour of it; I congratulate you. The local authorities have issued the municipal tax on apprenticeship training, as we have demanded. The government is also unable to act on the issue of local tax; the communities must present to it how it is doing. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The Lower Austrian ÖVP has presented an original proposal for this. This proposal provides for the introduction of the moped driver's licence for 15 years. This is supposed to guarantee jobs; so read in a broadcast of the ÖVP. – I have to say: I congratulate you on your suggestions. Secretary General Rauch-Kallat has also given him something interesting. She said yesterday that the proposals of the liberals would cost 200 billion schilling and asked how these 200 billion should be taken from. It was immediately followed by a press service of the ÖVP, in which regrettingly a mistake was pointed out; actually, there is about 200 million schilling. – Today this has already been forgotten, today it has already spoken of 200 billion schilling. I ask you, Mrs Colleague: How do you deal with the billions? You have to distinguish a little in such things! [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: If zeros talk about zeros!]] I do not want to go that far, but the comparison is pressing. The Freedom Party has predicted rising unemployment. On the other hand, you claimed that was a brain-spin. Isn't it brain-spinning now? Is the government now suddenly going to understand what we were asking for a year ago? Is the foreign policy of the liberals now coming over quite well? Has it been recognized now that a further increase in quotas and a further move by foreigners would make the problem, which is already sharp enough, even worse? We never said: Foreigners who are busy with us should return to their home country. That's a premise! We just said: No new ones. You have to distinguish that exactly! Former Minister of Economic Affairs Ditz called for economic growth in 1996: We would be in the field of top growth in Europe and could therefore afford this employment policy. – In fact, the OECD has attested us 1.4 percent. We are the final light! They have already announced something and put us in front of something that has not voted. In the last year, Ignorants have been at work! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In terms of growth, we are at the forefront of rising unemployment, while in other countries unemployment is falling, regardless of what you claim. They only need to read EU statistics instead of ignoring them. The load package is a load package and not a savings package. The pensions have been reduced in 1996. The overtimes you have cancelled and in return no allowance has been granted, no wage tax compensation has been made. All of this has yet to happen under the leadership of a social democratic government! [[Abg. Meisinger: Socialists!]] Mr Hums, I congratulate you on what your successors are doing. The pension guarantee has once again worked in 1995. But I'm telling you, that was the last time! Since September 1996, every Austrian, who has been in retirement for his years, has been about a thousand or so fewer due to the fact that he has fulfilled his contribution years. This is the "Ederer-Tausender", which she has promised, which the Vranckky is now dispensing at the pensions. I am glad that he, with his 5.8 million in time, sought the widest out. - That's the pension he's going home with. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If today a young person with a salary of 20,000 s enters work, only 1 S of his pension will not be entitled to his own pension. In addition, he pays 2.50 S of employees' contributions. The employer's contribution is 3 p. That is, 5 S are intended for others, for his own pension remains only 1 S of 6 S pension expenses. At a pension summit we will show before the summer what the payment procedure means for the young people who enter the profession and what taxes they are expected to pay. In addition, there is a 4 percent insurance tax. There is no asset tax on self-sufficiency for pension schemes as in Austria in any other EU country. In the other EU countries, self-sufficiency is fully deductible. But what are you doing? They levy an insurance tax in the form of a quasi-prudential tax on their own provision. I could give you Your scapegoats down to the capitalization. To this end, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] However, rising unemployment also has structural reasons, as you know, and this is because the number of permanent workers will fall to around 25 percent over the next ten years. About 25 percent will be self-employed, as is already the case in many EU countries. In this respect too, Austria is final. About 50 percent will be project workers. That is why we need the part-time scheme. This is also the reason why we need flexible working hours. Because, unlike what the Socialists say, new technologies do not bring jobs. In Munich alone, 100 000 telework places have been created, there are 102 private programmes in the television sector and much more. You know all of this, but you ignore it because it must remain your protected area. However, this protected area, this "holy cow" – I predict you – will give less and less milk. This is clear from the example of the post where there are high losses. No profit and loss account can be created. The post will not be too privatized, nor will the Telekom area. The e-business will have to reduce thousands of employees, which Dr. Haider expects from the association every day. The Austrians fled to Bertelsmann. Their colleagues, Mahr & Co, sit there and have excellent jobs. - That's how it looks. If we demand part-time work, you say that's ugly "Mc jobs." However, if you look at part-time jobs in the EU, you will realize that these are the qualified jobs of the future. Ladies and gentlemen! There is no state government without constructive cooperation of the liberals. There is no subject that we do not occupy. It is embarrassing if you take the special meeting to give rise to a trade. I can only tell you: Stop the insecurities! If you're sending the message: Value added tax – 2001, night shift – 6 minutes supplement – 2002, Road pricing – according to Minister Farnleitner, 2003, then I can only tell you that this causes uncertainty in the framework conditions that makes us so in Austria. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] One last word on the technology offensive. The technology offensive under Director-General Hochleitner is truly unique. Siemens as an Austrian company is the only company in the Siemens Group with Austrian state participation. They understand: Orders and so on, it's easier. They commit the Director-General to a technology offensive there, and this one sets out to land for road pricing in order for Siemens to receive the road pricing contract. The Minister of Economic Affairs has hit his head when he was in Vorarlberg and presented the road pricing there. Everyone laughed at him and said he shouldn't make the bock a gardener with Mr Hochleitner as an expert. Stop doing things like that! This is the swamp that must be dried, as the President of the Federal Government has said. I'm just telling you: We don't want to live and work in this swamp.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e6380	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn's motion for a resolution, presented and supported in accordance with business rules, is included in the negotiations. Mr Feurstein. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Please, honourable Member. The voluntary time limit is 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e6404	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! At first, only two numbers. Mr Prinzhorn presented it as if the Austrian situation would be bad compared with the EU. 65 percent of Austrians are in employment, so they have a job. The EU average is 59 percent. It is therefore not possible to talk about a bad situation in Austria. As far as the unemployment rate is concerned, I would like to say: The EU unemployment rate is 4.1 percent for us. That is what we are in the lower third, ladies and gentlemen. When I listened to Mr Prinzhorn in this way, I felt that this session is not necessary. Five times he said: What we have proposed has already happened. – So if it has already happened, why do we need a special session? – And three times he congratulated us on what we have already done. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! However, we do not see the situation so clearly. The situation on the labour market, the employment situation has become difficult for the Austrians. There are a number of effects, measures and causes. There has been a massive outlay of jobs in the East, in the East, and in many other reasons in recent years. There has been an opening of world trade, distortions of competition have occurred. [[Abg. Meisinger: With the help of the ÖVP!]] I say quite clearly: There have also been regulations in Austria in many areas that have not done us well, regulations which we now want to get under control through a revision of the trade regulations, plant law and a general liberalisation of the trade regulations. We think we have to open up. Whoever defends, loses! I would particularly like to say this to Mr Haider. Mr Haider! If you always think that we can isolate ourselves, we can break down, we can be an island of the Blessed in Austria, then I must tell you that you are extremely deceived. We have to open up! Only in the open do we have opportunities to exist, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Such an opening is for us the flexibility of working time. This flexibility of working time is intended to ensure that what was actually usual is that work can be done if work is necessary if it is to be done. No employee likes to sit in an office or at another workplace where he is not needed. He wants to provide services. Work is to be done if it is needed. But what do you want from the liberals to solve this problem? – You demand – this was very clearly to be heard in the TV broadcast last Sunday – an intensification of the rules of visibility! [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Do not tax the profits that have not been taken away! At least once you learned something!]] I can also read what has been said by Mr Haider. When asked what a graphicr should do when he becomes unemployed, Dr. Haider replied a little hesitantly: "Yes, when he's a graphic artist. For example, he can convert to paper production!" Not knowing that 300 jobs are given up in paper production in these days, ladies and gentlemen. What are the rules on portability that people simply refer to paper production? [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Aha, he doesn't know! Like the blind of the color!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Prinzhorn has listed a few!]] Ladies and gentlemen! But I'm talking about something else. I know a lot of young people and many older people looking for a job, leaving out the daily application papers that are going to introduce themselves but do not find a job, because we simply have too few jobs. I ask you: What do you want with your rules of visibility? – They only want to build new shocks. At present, we have clear and clear rules of visibility in our unemployment insurance law. Ladies and gentlemen! However, if you claim that by strengthening the rules on availability, you could create 30 000 new jobs, as your paper says, then this must be contradicted. You cannot expect us to accept such proposals. The opposite is the case. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] We demand a little more honesty and fairness to the unemployed and the job-seekers. This must not be stamped by the assumption that it is abused and does not do things right. I ask those who speak in this way to go to the labour market service on Monday in the morning and talk to the people there. Talk to the people who are looking for work, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! That's not the way you described it! This must be seen in a massive way. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You have to talk to the entrepreneurs that they do not just take boy!]] We are in favour - as Minister Farnleitner said very clearly - that various protection provisions that exist today are being examined and reviewed for their applicability and usability in the present day. The Child and Youth Employment Act is such an example. We want and will change the age limits! We will also work to reduce social security contributions for apprentices in order to make it more attractive to employ apprentices. The additional wage costs for apprentices are to be reduced. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! But we will not go along with the reduction of collective contractual minimum wages in order to solve the unemployment problem. In his paper, Dr. Haider proposed a 20 percent reduction in collective minimum wages for people over 50 years. This would mean that a 50 - year - old, a 52 - year - old 50 - 60 - percent of his income would lose. 50 to 60 percent! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Unheard! Incredible!]] Dr. Haider! They trust to propose a 20 percent reduction in the minimum collective contract wages – the minimum wage well noted, not the average wage, not the actual wage! This is what Dr. Haider dares to suggest in this paper "Work for the Future"! This paper could be called "Work for the Sankt Nammerleins Day"! Thank God never comes the day when you can vote here! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] We say a clear no to such a labour market policy, ladies and gentlemen. So you can't lead people around on the nose and lead them astray. Another point is tax reform. Mrs Rauch-Kallat has rightly criticized the tax reform. What do you want with your paper, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals? – You want to abolish the drinking tax, you want to abolish the total wage tax, you want to reduce the VAT, you want to implement income tax reforms in all possible areas. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] If I count all of this together, then amounts will come out, ladies and gentlemen, which we cannot say at all. Is this an honest policy you are making here, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals? Read your paper! You probably haven't read what's inside, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals. If you had read it, you would know how immense your suggestions are and how stupid people are being sold. We will not participate in this, we will show and express it. You can't do that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Calls of the Abg. Rossmann.]] I say again today: We are in favour of a tax reform – this has already been said several times – which primarily favours family owners with children. These need a tax reform, and we want to use and use the funds for them. In this area, we want to relieve the burden so that families can take care of their children again. This must be the primary concern of our tax reform that comes next year. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to say one more thing to you, where I would like to accept a very clear no: You want to attack reserves – the reserves of the National Bank, you speak of 23 billion schilling. In another paper you talk about the reserves of social security funds that you want to attack and dissolve. Do you know what it means to dissolve reserves that are necessarily needed? These have not been set up for illegitimate reasons, but the reserves are needed to fulfil tasks and fulfill obligations, ladies and gentlemen. A clear no! We will not resolve such reserves. I'll tell you something. I am very glad that we have a clear law, which states that no finance minister, nor any other member of the government, nor any Member of Parliament, has access to the national bank's reserves. Thank God we in Austria have very clear requirements for not attacking such reserves. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The foundations on which we build are five points for the future. At the top are stable prices. In Austria we have created a stable price level in recent years, which is very important. A stable currency. The Austrian Schilling is one of the most stable currencies in the world. That must be preserved. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Novotny.]] Low interest rates. – It was possible to keep interest rates so low that companies can invest through a truly reasonable monetary policy. I say to you that every tax advantage is in vain for companies if the interest rate level is too high. Much more important is a low interest rate level, and we want to work on it. A low interest rate level is the biggest promotion for our economy. Next point: We have a comprehensive social security for the elderly, for unemployment, for sickness, for the need for care, and we want this security. Last point: social peace. That should also be said clearly once again. The social partnership, which was established in Austria, has brought about a social peace to which almost all the other countries must envy us, because they have never done so. Look You go over to France, look at Italy, then you'll see what's going on there. We have social peace, and I believe that this agreement on working time flexibility will again prove how functional and how effective our social partners are in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! I would have expected today to try together to weigh certain things, to look at them: Where can you go, where can you not go? I have told you which of your proposals I can go with and which is not. I would have expected such a thing from you, too. But it is obviously not possible for you to deal with the problems correctly and objectively in the interests of the working people in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I regret this because I wish it would be different. This special meeting of the National Council would have been successful. So I must fear that it is once again a special session "à la liberal", namely in vain, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e6623	Mr Mag. Main has made a statement of actual correction. – Ladies and gentlemen, please. Start with the facts you want to correct.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e6647	Mr President. High house! I am correcting Mr Feurstein's statement as follows: Mr. Feurstein claimed that in his paper, Mr. Dr. Haider provided for a 20 per cent discount on collective contract wages and therefore a reduction in revenue of up to 60 per cent for older employees. I'm actually correcting. In fact, the point is as follows: "The possibility of a 20 per cent drop in the collective contract for the duration of one year in the employment of the unemployed aged over 50 and the compensation of these low entry wages through direct support for the unemployed by the labour market service." It is therefore incorrect, Mr Feurstein, that this would result in a loss of income for the former unemployed. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Well, well!]] I think your claim that this is immense refers only to your own speech, but to nothing else.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e6696	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Peter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e6718	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! As far as I am concerned – and as I hope you too – I grew up on the sun side of this society and have lived on it so far. It makes me more concerned that there are over 300,000 people in this country who are unemployed, of whom 170 000 are people who need to be called long-term unemployed. 25 percent of employees in Austria lose their job once a year. No entrepreneur will negligently cancel employees if he is adequately gifted. He must do so because of technological progress because the developments in the market drive him to do so. Today's debate, ladies and gentlemen, the word mountains that have been built here, the party-political gap, all of which has not created a single job. It has shown how difficult, indeed almost impossible, for policy to create active jobs. What policy can do, however, is to prevent job creation – passively. It is precisely in this field of tension that the Federal Government stands. On the one hand, it fights – and this can be argued and makes sense – for the protection of employees. It naturally fights for the protection of the environment, for the design of competition in the economy and for compliance with our legal system. At the same time, it forgets that the sum of the regulations adopted here in this House, which continue to be decided, hinder productivity, make it difficult to satisfy customer needs, make it partly impossible, limit employment opportunities as such, and thus create a level of costs in Austria that is at risk. In this field of tension, the Federal Government is threatening to fail. As no word mountains help, as no statistically supported units of Mr Vice-Chancellor help, it simply helps to counter the problem situation. With every regulation you propose here, with any additional intervention, you will hinder productivity. This prevents you from combining the production factors and thus satisfying customer needs. So far, surprisingly little has been said that this field of tension is the problem of Austria. The quality of the economic location has already been conjured several times today. But you know, ladies and gentlemen on the government bank, that all international rating agencies have been serving the Austrian economy in the last three years of the outstanding 7th, 8th or 9th. Place on 15th, 20th or 21st. I've gone back to space. [[Abg. May. Main: On the 31st!]] Yes, you do not know that all that you have done over the last ten years has created bureaucracy costs because you still adhere to the principle of regulation rather than defining clear responsibilities in the economy? These regulations – trade regulations, plant law – prevent employment we are talking about today, they do not create it. You have tried to bring about liberalisation, you have dealt with the question, but you have always been dependent on the principle of regulation instead of addressing the definition of clear responsibilities. The end of the shop: a classic Pyrrhus victory of the Minister of Economic Affairs. There is an improvement in the shop closure, but at what bureaucratic price has it been achieved? Environmental law: Keeping the first 90 percent environment clean costs 100, the next 9 percent will cost 100 again, and the next 0.9 percent will again cost 100 – an exponential equation. Haven't we been shot out there or over there? Have we not piled up costs that the markets today are not ready to pay? – And because the markets are not willing to pay these costs, we lose jobs. Workers' protection: No one in the Hohen The House will stand up against the protection of workers, but in the way we have implemented the European directive on the protection of workers, it is destructive because it costs an infinite amount of money, because it binds an infinite amount of power in the establishments, which is not on the market, which is not for the customer who cannot be used for the solution to the problem. The second area after bureaucracy, which contributes to the deterioration of the economic location, is undoubtedly labour costs. It is unbearable that, although we have the third highest labour costs in the European Union, we only have the 9th highest net wages! There are many, many reasons – vacation, 13. and 14. salary, social security – why these costs have grown so much in Austria. But the tension between what an employee costs, and what he gets grossly monthly, is increasing. We have gone the wrong way, and this federal government has not had the courage to reverse, but it has increased the additional wage costs – however you may define them – by 3, 4, yes, 5 percent in recent years. The social system is the largest contribution to the political culture in Austria. It is to congratulate a country that has succeeded in straining a social network for all people. But do we not risk this social network if we are at risk of employment? And if we have too high labour costs, we are at risk of employment. That's where the circle closes. There can be no further increase in the contribution on the market! The worldwide customers of Austria are not willing to pay even higher labour costs in products and services. So if you make further increases in labour costs, you are at risk of employment in Austria! This should be discussed very seriously. This government has not yet done so. It has increased labour costs far beyond gross wages in the last ten years in which it has been in office. The quality of an economic location, ladies and gentlemen of the House, is also expressed in the number of self-employed. It is a European shame that this country has only 6 per cent self-employed! In our schools, in education, in the political debate, have we created a climate that causes people to become self-employed? It's not enough to write books: "More private, less state!"if you act differently politically! The fact is that, after ten years of great coalition in Austria, we have as few self-employed as ever in the employment rate. That's the problem! But only self-employed, only entrepreneurs create work – and then, when they find customers and markets! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] In many discussions, especially with entrepreneurs in the field of small and medium-sized enterprises – with the painter, the master carpenter, the installer master – I experience that they tell me: I used to work 18 people, I only have more than nine now, because I don't do that anymore! As a roofer I used to have had twelve people, now I'm six, I don't need a second master! – What happened in the minds of the entrepreneurs? What have you done with the Schumpeter entrepreneurs in this country, with the Schumpeter people with those who want to move something? Has You may be frustrated by your policy? – Entrepreneurs employ fewer people, and the sum of this lower employment represents the dramatic problem of unemployment. Start creating a business-friendly climate, because a business-friendly climate is an economic-friendly climate, and an economic-friendly climate is an employment-friendly climate! – This is the equation that this federal government must understand. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I do not think that this coalition government can close its eyes to the insolvency that has been going on over this country for three years. Much more than 5,000, yes, 6,000 companies had to go bankrupt, tens of thousands of jobs lost. What went wrong? – It was not the individual measures that this House decided to take, nor was it the structural change alone, of course it was not just the faults of entrepreneurs, but everything together created this amalgam, so that today we are faced with the greatest number of insolvencys we have ever had in the history of this country. All in all, ladies and gentlemen, this has a clear impact. Let's say it, let's make it clear: Austria is in the final position of economic growth in the European Union, behind Greece. Austria has inflation, which is a three-quarters higher than that in Germany – which is worrying in terms of the binding of schilling to the D-Mark. Austria has a chronic deficit in the current account of 2 percent. Unfortunately, Austria – and we are discussing it today – is losing its world championship, its world champion position in employment policy, which we had until 1992. We are losing our leadership in the Eastern Markets and, as I said, we have the lowest rate of self-employment in the European Union. Other countries are obviously better off. Let us go, let us learn, and fight for it, ladies and gentlemen of the House, that we can succeed – succeed! – to achieve economic and monetary union in the first round. The binding of schilling to the D-Mark is only credible and only to be maintained if Austria is present in the first round of economic and monetary union. And this is not a monetary reform, it is a currency exchange, it is an exchange of currencies. It is about creating more opportunities for export-oriented Austria in a large single market and thus boosting employment. Austria is one of the most foreign trade-oriented countries among the European Union's states and therefore, if we produce the right domestic environment, it has the greatest chance to gain additional percentages in its employment. The future of our country lies in the open society, which sees globalisation as an opportunity and not a threat. We can win the quality competition! We can win them if we put all the strength – that has already been said today, also by the Federal Chancellor – into education and training. In this context, a sentence on apprentices: The successful apprenticeship training in Austria has become a dead end. Many companies are no longer able to maintain the number of apprentices so far. There is also the same phenomenon to be observed: The High House respects the coalition parties decide to regulate one after another, but at some point comes the point where the apprentice training firm says: No, I can't and don't want to! I do not think that it is enough to reduce Mr Feurstein's social security contributions. This is a point, and I thank you for that. But I mean, in fact, we have to take a next step and decouple the teaching as an equal part of the secondary education level next to the AHS and the BHS, as well as the schooling time and working time of the apprentices. We Liberals have put forward proposals in this regard. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] We will also have to note in the future that there is something like an international income compensation. Western culture has not taken advantage of the prosperity of this globe. There is a catch-up process of the Sinian cultural circle, the Indian cultural circle, the Latin American cultural circle. We will therefore have to learn to work under new conditions and to question the absolute predominance of our cultural system, and we may also need to become more diligent and productive. The aim must be to ecologize the tax system, which reduces the division of labour to a level that makes sense and does not lead to excessive social dumping. Taxation of total capital income via Tobin taxes has already been reported. I am missing the answers from the Federal Government, I am missing very specific proposals from the Federal Government as to how this will be done in the future. Ladies and gentlemen! Austria is not a service-oriented country. Austria, unfortunately, has become an anti-service country due to growing prosperity. We don't have a "ready to serve" in our heads. We don't think: What can I do for you? On the contrary, we think what well-acquired rights we have. But we are all consumers, and consumers of international markets will judge whether we are ready for service. The service is the future of employment: technical services, information services and tourism. We have discussed social security. Ladies and gentlemen! Those who are not sure cannot be free, and those who cannot be free cannot be self-determined. Those who are not self-determined will not be able to be creative and therefore cannot be productive. Social security is therefore essential. Only: Whoever extends it threatens them and thus threatens employment in our country. Finally, I would like to make a motion for a resolution tabled by our group on the issue of independence: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would ask you to give your assent to this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e6851	The motion for a resolution by the honourable Member, Mr Mag. Peter is sufficiently supported in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and is involved in the negotiations. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I give it to him and remind him that we have recommended a time limit of 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e6876	Mr President. High house! As a Federal Minister, who is particularly confronted with the age group of 17 to 20 years old and their problems, I would like to draw your attention to youth employment in two ways. The problem of apprentices has already been addressed by many speakers. I would like to point out that this is not least a structural problem because the number of 15 years per year of birth has increased by 10 000 in the last four years. We therefore have a medium-term problem ahead of us as a result of demographic development. Of course, it is important to respond accordingly. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meisinger.]] However, even more important is undoubtedly the long-term treatment of this problem, which I believe can only be seen as a significant increase in the number of teaching institutions in the new teaching professions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In my opinion, a problem has not been dealt with yet. The majority of young people do not take up a teaching profession, only 40 percent of a year go into teaching, while 60 percent choose schools or other forms of education. It is also important to maintain a job offer for the future. However, there can be no patent solutions for this. Most of the professions, we have not only an above-average level of schooling, but also one that is at the top of Europe. If we still have problems finding employment for these young people, it is simply because they have a lack of practice compared to those already in the profession. It is therefore the duty of society to give these young school leavers the opportunity to enter the profession so that they do not simply sit at home and wait until they are finally admitted to a farm after countless preliminary talks. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is a public-hand task, but even more so one of the whole society. This problem can only be solved if private companies, private associations and public authorities work together.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e6936	Thank you, Minister of State. The next speaker is Mr Gusenbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e6960	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government, ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would like to pay tribute to Mr Mag. Peter, who, like me, has dealt very constructively with the question that moves us today. The whole discussion is essentially about two poles. In all the economic and economic theoretical considerations, work is regarded as a commodity which must be as easily questionable and as cheap as possible. - That's the one thesis. The second thesis is that workers are, of course, people who want to have safety, who want protection and who want a reasonable salary for their work. And there must be reasonable compromises between these two legitimate positions that exist in the economic cycle. If, today, we are discussing what we can do in the context of the situation where there is too much unemployment in Austria, then perhaps we should consider how the compromise between these two Poles is resolved in different industrial societies. We are faced with the Dutch example and others in the debate of the American example, with the British example. When we look at this, we note the following: The American model has achieved a very good mix between high growth and low inflation in recent years, and there has been a corresponding employment growth. - That's the home page. The negative side of the balance sheet is that in the United States, most of the new jobs that have been created are only half of the income that has been generated by those jobs that have been lost in the previous economic period. Secondly, it should be noted that: In the U.S. there is a massively widespread underclass, that is, a large share of society that is completely excluded from everything. I only point out that 2% of all white male Americans are in prison between 15 and 65 years of age – about ten times as many as is common in Western Europe. - That's just an indicator. Thirdly, we must say: The recession took place in the USA in 1991 and in Europe in 1993. That is, as far as the economic upturn is concerned, the US is ahead of us for two years. So take the example directly and say: If we do it like the Americans!, probably will not lead to success. Then there is the well-known British example. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meisinger.]] – Mr Meisinger, you can then turn on the bubble generator here at the speaker’s desk, but now you listen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Let us take a look at the well-known British example. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Haider.]] There such calls are quite common. We come to the international question, Mr Haider. – In the UK, growth rates have been above average in recent years. At the same time, the UK currency was about 20 percent lower than it is now. Therefore, there is concern in England today: Is not what has happened in the UK to growth and employment primarily a consequence of the low UK pound? And will this benefit not be lost in the light of the now high UK pound in the next few months? Many assume that all the other reforms that have been set up in the UK have contributed relatively little and go beyond... – No, we do not speculate with a soft currency. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You speculate with a soft currency!]] I'm just explaining which models were proposed to us and how to evaluate them. One thing you also have to say: In recent years, the British have run down the entire infrastructure so far that today the London subway is essentially on the standard of a third world country. If Austria continues to have a lower unemployment rate compared to the countries which are expected to have been successful in employment, if all that has been done elsewhere has not, at the end of the day, led to better results than we have, the question arises: Where, then, is the so-called compact, plausible, already realized example that would make it clear that in Austria the catastrophe prevails and elsewhere, in any other country, that is absolute paradise? [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn: In Holland!]] [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] Let us go to Holland, Mr. Prinzhorn. Despite the measures I think are very interesting – I say so; this is one of the points to be discussed; what I think is interesting is the debate on the pension system there – which has dropped from one place to six in the European Union at the welfare level. This is an effect of the Dutch reforms you have neglected. That is to say, in Holland too, there are obviously many people who have to pay the token for the preaching by you – your Mr. Prinzhorn has even supported and overburdened Mr. Klima. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: The climate wants that!]] [[further calls for tender for the liberals]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My summary of this discussion is: It does not help us either the American or the British, nor the Dutch way. We have an independent Austrian way to go in this context, and we have to discuss it today. There are, I think, three essential points. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] With your economic hips, you have already proved the potential for destruction of fiscal policy that you have put on the table. We don't want to discuss that in detail now. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] On what we have to do in Austria, if we want to put in place short-term measures, which, I believe, are not the most essential, both ÖGB President Vergestnitsch and the Federal Chancellor have already commented today. If we combine the claim to strengthen employment on the ground with a tendency to change our control mechanisms, and if in this context the question of thermal renovation of buildings that have always been smiled here has been introduced as an element, then we must also say what this brings. I do not know exactly how the colleague with the roller-powered powder, who was first sitting in the first row and who unfortunately left it again, has considered the effects, for example, of the thermal thermal reconditioning sector – a programme, which was developed by Wifo, among other things – in Austria. It brings an investment volume of plus 36 billion, a value added of plus 27 billion, an employment effect of 44 000, tax revenue of plus 15 billion, lower contributions to the unemployed of 9 billion and a change in the current account for our benefit due to reduced energy imports by up to 20 billion schilling. [[Call to the liberals: Power failed a tax reform for this money!]] This is a closed approach, for example, which can be implemented in Austria in the short term and which also has the advantage of reducing CO2 emissions by 50 percent in that country. This means that environmental objectives do not always exclude employment policy objectives, but can also be combined. Personally, I think: If we have been talking about technology today and talk about where the European and Austrian tasks lie, we must say that, even if the Americans have won the race in telecommunications technology, even though the Americans have won the race in gene technology, the race in environmental technology is still not decided. There is a real opportunity for both Austria and the European Union. This is what we need to see, because it also brings jobs. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: Then stop it!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I have nothing against the business-friendly climate that was required. But, Mr Peter, one thing you will not dispute: a number of things have been done in recent years, particularly as regards the reform of corporate taxes in Austria. At least in Germany, a lot has been done in Austria, which is still not possible in Germany. This has also led to the fact that, in recent years in Austria, corporate taxes have been reduced substantially. I do not know whether additional incentives should be given over this level to create additional jobs, because we have already given this incentive in recent years, and this has obviously not led to the desired employment effects. In other words, I believe that on this side, namely on the supply side, it is relatively difficult to move and we actually have to look at where, in the light of all the needs of fiscal consolidation, this state's active investment policy, combined with structural changes towards ecologisation and associated with debureaucratisation, can be made. I believe that this will bring much more to the Austrian employment situation than this collection of proposals which the FPÖ has put on the table today and which, by its fiscal policy effect, represents a true atomic explosion of the figures, but will not bring any Austrian unemployed employment.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e7108	Mrs Ing. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Langthaler. Please, ladies and gentlemen. 10 minutes of voluntary time limit will be displayed.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e7129	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! I am glad that I am allowed to speak here after Mr Gusenbauer, because my priority in this debate on job security and job creation in Austria is, of course, environmental policy and ecology. Mr Gusenbauer! The Greens started the "Work by Environment" programme years ago, and today I have some of these brochures to show where to invest and where to create jobs. [[the speaker keeps the brochures up to date]] After seven years of debate on this issue, SPÖ has now discovered thermal insulation. We are glad that you finally understand that this is one of very, very many examples where you really need to invest and do something. We have also been preparing a motion for a resolution today. I'm excited how many of the SPÖs will agree with him. Only: The Federal Chancellor, who has referred to it today and has already done so in his government statement, and the entire Federal Government is very little credible on this issue. I have not been here in Parliament for as long as many years, but I have been here for six years, and all these years I have heard the words of magic from the greening of the tax system and investing in ecological areas. However, if it is very specific if the question of Gretchen is really asked – whether in the context of budget creation or in various structural adjustment laws – you always decide on the other way. Mr Gusenbauer! Let me give you a specific example of where an initiative has really been taken in this area in recent years by the Federal Government. [[Abg. Wabl: At least! One thing is enough! Not two! One!]] There is an excellent 1995 Wifo study on this important area of environmental technology, which clearly and very clearly shows the areas in which one should invest not only in order to actually take on a market leader position in Europe and internationally, but also in concrete terms how many jobs this creates. We have tried to discuss this in the committees. Nothing came! Nothing but blockade, blockade, blockade! One fact must be aware of when you really go into this matter: There is little point in taking in 100 million schillings, but there you have to invest bigger sums. And that means, of course, structural changes or specific priorities. So far, priority has been set: 33 billion schilling for road construction and zero schilling for all the necessary measures – for example in the area of thermal insulation or in the area of concrete promotion of alternative energy sources. Now, there are so-called energy tax possibilities of promotions, but they are such that at the end of last year alone, two concrete wind power projects were simply destroyed, because the framework conditions in Austria are still such that alternative projects, for example in the field of energy, although there is a great deal of commitment from the respective operators, have little chance of actually putting themselves into practice. The reason for this is that the large structures do not seem to be shifted. Example: Energy policy. Here, again today, by the Federal Chancellor and then by the Minister of Economic Affairs, it is demanded that there be changes because competition will indeed be enormously strong. It has also been calculated – and I could also show you many studies – for Austria how many jobs are lost by the EU Internal Market Directives in the field of electricity industry. There are thousands of jobs that are at stake in Austria and are actually being lost, which need to be rationalized simply if the conditions are not now set up. In fact, what to do is undisputed among the experts. Everyone and anyone with whom or with whom one is discussed knows that a large Austrian energy company would be important, namely, that it should be subdivided into production, distribution and concrete supply. Then one would have a real chance to really survive in European competition as an Austrian energy group – where, as I believe, the Republic of Austria should be majority owners. However, the opposite happens. We have nine federal states that are jealous of each other – each of them – in which the respective officials are currently occupied solely by party policy and in which nothing is moving at all. Nothing! The Minister for Economic Affairs, who takes up relatively advanced positions, is blocked by the Heads of State, because of course everyone would lose their influence in the Federal Republic of Germany, and it happens exactly the opposite of what should happen. Above all, one is waiting so long for one to simply roll over the decisions of the European side. I cannot see in any way the credibility of responding to changes that affect the field of environmental technology or, as a whole, the area of environmental protection and also many economic areas. This is evident in any form in any of your concrete steps that have been taken so far. The most up-to-date and best example here is, as I said, the energy industry. We have shown with various works how work could be created. I can quote you from it, everyone can order it from us and pick it up. Work by the environment due to energy and transport investments, jobs through environmental measures. 15,000 permanent jobs secured. This is a publication that we have discussed with the Wifo and with the IHS in many hours and which has been confirmed in it. Work by the environment in the waste management sector. It is also possible to create 15 000 secure permanent jobs. Work through the environment: Nature and landscape protection. The number of jobs is the same. So a total of 45 000 secure jobs. These are not only ideas taken by the greens from the air, but these are ideas that we have discussed with very, very much energy and with a lot of know-how with other experts very, very long and which have not been denied by anyone, neither by the Wifo nor by the IHS, but also not by experts of your parties. What is lacking – we have the concepts – is that you finally implement it. But because you are not willing to intervene in structural areas of power, it is not possible to get on with this. Another example, an old, old green demand that we have not taken a step further, is the ecologicalisation of the tax system. I am glad to hear today that, although it is undisputed that all the parties are demanding it, it is obvious that there is still a difference between the level and the level of labour-related taxes. But where, please, is the concrete initiative? It will not be enough if we decide in 1999 to introduce a small energy tax while reducing additional labour costs in any particular area. There is not only a European debate, but a real trend in what direction it is going, and it would therefore be necessary to act quickly. We shall also put forward a motion for a resolution on this issue, because we believe that a corresponding tax reform must be adopted in this year's budget. The Greens have been laid low for a long time because of their proposals on energy taxation and the greening of the tax system. To my great joy there was last week – specifically on 14. February, i.e. last Friday – in the Financial Times, a big article on economists who are working for energy taxes. These are 2 000 American economists, including six Nobel Prize winners, all of whom are honourable people who are very much committed to the introduction of energy taxes. In summary, they believe that the greatest risk on this issue lies in non-negotiation today, which is why they call on all politicians – especially in America, but also everywhere else – to finally act. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] A short sentence on another area, which has also been mentioned several times today and which is currently being completely mistakenly discussed from our point of view, namely the field of environmental investment rights. The Federal Government only wishes to accelerate the right of investment, while we have always said that there must be a harmonisation and that an insulated innovation of the trade order is far from sufficient. Minister of Economic Affairs Farnleitner, who is now no longer present, is not even able to unite the respective sections in his own department so that it was actually more unbureaucratic and thus easier for all parties involved. In its department are the air law, the mountain law and the industrial order. The three sections are blocking each other, and it is not even possible to harmonise something within a department. The current industrial innovation is exactly the wrong step if you want to do something positive. On all these issues, we are bringing forward today's motions for resolutions. Before that, however, I would like to introduce the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ollinger on social and employment policy at EU level, which has already been explained in detail in the key points of Mr Ollinger's report and which I no longer have to read here. But now I will bring in the following: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] Finally, I'm bringing in: [[Quoted print version removed]] Summary: There are no simple, no unique answers to the problem of the really difficult situation in the workplace and the labour market in Austria. There are several concrete approaches; one of them, an important one, is the question of investment in environmental concerns. There are a lot of concepts to this, and the Federal Government should finally speak less and act more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e7267	I announce as follows: First: Mrs Langthaler's just-readed motions for resolutions have been properly tabled, supported and are therefore negotiating. Secondly, The motion for a resolution on social and employment policy at EU level, on which it referred, has also been properly put in place, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. In view of the extent of the application, I leave it in accordance with § 53 para. Copy and distribute 4 of the Rules of Procedure. In addition, this request will also be accompanied by the Stenographical Protocol. The motion for a resolution referred to above has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e7344	The next speech is now before Mr Schwarzenberger. Please, honourable Member. 15 minutes of voluntary time limit will be displayed.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e7366	Mr President. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! There is a personal fate behind every unemployed person, and that is why we have people's representatives to do everything we can to reduce unemployment. The pressure to rationalise across Europe leads to the continued release of workers in industry, but also in other areas in the meantime. Internationalization is progressing whether we want it or not. The economy must face this competition. Agriculture is also part of the economy, and it is undisputed that agriculture can also have positive effects on other sectors beyond its immediate scope. 15 percent of all employees in Austria work either in the agricultural sector or in the agricultural sector, and every workplace farm also ensures employment in the processing industry or in the agricultural machinery industry. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In 1970 430 000 people were still active in agriculture and forestry, and in 1996 there were only more than 170 000 main employees in agriculture. Thus, in these 25 years, agriculture has released 260 000 employees, i.e. enormous productivity increases – of course also through engineering – have been achieved. He had a farmer in 1970. Food produced for twelve people was already 50 people in 1995, for which a farmer produced food. In the food sector, patriotism is necessary. One can also be patriotic in a single market. If consumers are particularly good at Austrian quality and buy Austrian products, they thus secure Austrian jobs. Consumers too can contribute to reducing unemployment. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] After all, more than 100 000 employees are employed in the food industry in Austria, and the Austrian farmers and processing companies are able to cover the people's table in excellent quality and more abundant than ever before. So we have no reason to ask big about foreign food. In addition, especially in small rural towns, we are increasingly faced with the problem that local services are no longer functioning. If there is a larger open space, farmers – we will have to negotiate this in the next few months in the context of the trade regulations – could ensure local services, especially in small towns. In many of these villages the farmers are the only ones who can still offer their self-produced food. We were able to keep our market position essentially after accession to the EU, and we were able to expand our agricultural exports, especially to Italy. I already admit that the price level is much lower, including in exports to Italy, than it was before accession, but before accession we needed almost 9 billion schilling to reduce our higher price level to the lower level around Austria. These export support, which has always been criticized, have now been removed. A second area is that of raw materials. Agriculture and forestry are able to offer significantly more raw materials and renewable renewable renewable energy than before. In our forests, around 30 million solid meters grow each year, but only 20 million solid meters are used because demand is not available. In the forestry sector and in the downstream sector, throughout wood processing, but also in paper processing, some 150,000 people are directly or indirectly employed in Austria. Only 1 percent more impact – our forests would be tolerated – could increase the employment level by around 1 000. There are reserves available, so to speak, we only have to create the appropriate framework conditions. That is why I agree with Mr Langthaler on this question, who has meant that we have to take rapid steps to adapt the tax system to ecological areas, because in the case of renewable energy everything is based on work performance and thus the added value remains domestic. When we import fossil energy, a significant share of value added goes to the oil countries. That's why this could be a contribution. 57 percent of all employees in Austria are active in the service sector and there have been increases in the service sector in recent years. Austria is a tourism country first in Europe, but unfortunately, especially as regards the recreation sector, as regards the tourism sector, there has been a stagnation in recent years, even a decline in summer tourism, and this also affects employees in the service sector. We therefore had a higher rate of unemployment for the first time in the winter, even for the unemployed or for the demand of employees in the service sector than in the previous years. However, Europe-wide consideration should also be given to what framework conditions can be changed. It is significant to note that long-distance travel has become considerably cheaper in recent years – of course also through huge competition from airlines. The fact that the aircraft fuel is still mineral oil-free also contributes to this. It would therefore be a contribution for Europe as a whole to draw equal on this issue. It should not be seen that the farmer who uses diesel fuel with his tractor on the agricultural land has to pay mineral oil tax, but does not need to pay the oil tax. There would be a reserve for Europe as a whole. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Thirdly and last: The FPÖ has made it very simple in this punctuation to preserve agricultural jobs, because it has only proposed three points. First of all, job security: Here, grab hold of it. They return to the former Huber plan that only the main employees in agriculture should receive support. It is even literally speaking here of a fixed amount per manager and also of family workers working in the main occupation and of foreign workers. But we also have 170 000 additional workers in Austria due to the small structures. Is the agricultural policy, so to speak, to abandon these auxiliary farmers? [[Abg. Dr. Khol: End-of-life farm extermination!]] A second point is the ecologicalization of production. There are three areas mentioned, namely the abandonment of nitrogen fertilisation, the elimination of chemical plant protection products and herbicides and the compensation of competitive disadvantages due to small farmers. That is exactly what is included in our environmental programme; in addition, much more points than just these three. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: These are the emergency measures! They're in demand! Immediate action!]] Third area: First of all, it is called a conversion from land support or from conditions on agricultural workers. At the same time, however, point 3 mentions the exemption from production constraints, although point 2 is required, the payment must be linked to administrative requirements. Point 3 already contradicts point 2. I believe that what the farmers in Austria need is a guarantee of compensation. We now have the system – which is certainly still capable of improving or improving – that the so-called compensatory allowance is paid as compensation for disadvantaged regions. These are about 3 billion schillings a year that are paid to some 120,000 Austrian farmers. Moreover, we have paid the CAP premiums, which are 100 percent from the EU, from Brussels. In addition, there is the environmental programme, which is being spent with 8.5 billion schilling in this year. In addition, there is the investment aid which is used to create some degree of equality of competition for small farmers with holdings of larger structures in other European countries, particularly in the northern areas of Europe and in England. What we need, however, is to ensure compensation, in the longer term and not just for a few years. It is therefore necessary for the agricultural budget in the European Union to have a fixed size which is adapted to the needs of the Member States. This enables us to secure jobs for farms and ensure the future.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e7437	Mr Ing. Reichhold. The Rules of Procedure are known. – Duration of speech: 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e7469	Mr Schwarzenberger claimed that the new FPÖ concept does not take into account the additional workers. That is, of course, wrong! The additional workers, as well as the full-time farmers, are taken into account by job premiums.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e7520	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Chief. - Please. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e7556	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Mr President. High house! Mr Khol's comments were just as wrong as the previous statements made by his previous speaker from his own group, but it really does seem that the Huber Plan in the ÖVP has not yet been fully understood. I have the fear, Mr Schwarzenberger, that the new ideas of the liberals for the renovation of the work place would be similar to those of the farm, which means that: You will probably need three to four years in order to understand some good of the liberal applications and then take over in your election advertising. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I can already give you an example of this. Your chamber director Richard Norz in Tyrol has now meant – I am referring to "Tyrol currently" of the "Tyrol daily" of 18th century. February, in order to tell us where that comes from – he thought about work and noticed that the trend is now heading towards work contributions. In particular, the work contribution takes into account the importance of the farm workplace. – Your chamber director Norz in Tyrol has obviously overcome what you want to ignore here today, and thus makes election advertising in Tirol. You see, the ideas of the liberals can't be so bad! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I would like to correct something that Mr Vice-Chancellor has said, which you have also repeated and which can also not be so uncritical in the room. Mr Schwarzenberger, you think that the external trade balance in the agricultural sector is quite positive and our export increases are the nonplusultra. I'm allowed to stop you: 27. January 1997, APA 169: "Trade balance deficit with Italy significantly increased after 9 months of 1996. " That is what the Agricultural Information Centre says, in order to say this clearly, it is not a claim by us liberals. Your Agricultural Information Centre says clearly and clearly: They have not brought about the increase in the lira in Italy, the use of farmers and the increase in income for our farmers. On the contrary: In the same period, imports from Italy increased by 33 percent – at the expense of the Austrian industry. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: I only used agriculture, not all of it!]] You have said one thing, Mr Schwarzenberger: that the finishing will come before and after. And I can also quote the APA issue from the Agricultural Information Centre: "It should be noted that Austria was able to increase its exports mainly in the case of raw and semi-finished goods, while Italy was able to increase its exports to Austria in particular in the food industry and in the finished goods sector. Value creation takes place in Italy, while our value added is brought abroad – at the disadvantage of the downstream industries, at the expense of farmers. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: What does the Schwarzenberger say about it?]] You know very well, Mr Schwarzenberger, how it looks in the dairy sector to keep the share in Italy. 15 per cent of deliveries of milk products are for the dry milk sector, at a price of 2.80 s per litre of milk! This is a sub-price of rich 2,05 p. Mr. Schwarzenberger! Such business will not secure jobs, but such businesses will destroy jobs in Austria and call the farm workplace into question in the long term! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You know all of this, but all your statements are covered by populism, with populism with you, Mr Schwarzenberger, obviously identical to falsehoods. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: We already export 12 percent of the total milk supply to Italy!]] It would be like to explain that, for example, the Tyrolean President Steixner claimed on the radio last weekend that Mr. Dr. Haider had changed the Carinthian Chamber in 1976 in the form of the abolition of the District Farmers' Chambers. They know very well that Haider was not in Carinthia in 1976, but was an assistant to Professor Winkler. The fact that the reform of the Chambers of Agriculture in Carinthia has taken place differently is carried out against better knowledge in the election campaign, but we are accused of populism. Mr Schwarzenberger! You should take yourself and your local representatives first at the nose and as the second with the truth. Only then can you get upset here! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In the same horn, Mr Schwarzenberger, your top candidate, Mr Penz, has also blown by saying that the Carinthian Chamber of Farmers would be so bad that only 20 percent of farmers are applying for support. I can calm you down: The Carinthian farmers are seeking 97 per cent of support, and the processing of the applications for support from the Carinthian farmers in the EU is regulated in Carinthia in such a way that there is an additional income for farmers in the secondary acquisition that they, as farmers themselves, advise other farmers and carry out them properly and not officials at the expense of the farmers, do this work. You can be calm! In the Carinthian Chamber of Agriculture, we have made sure that many things have become better, much better in the interests of farmers, and in addition, farmers have been saving their contribution increases for decades. This secures the workplace farm and nothing else, Mr Schwarzenberger! You should take note of this! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But I would now like to hear three motions for resolutions to waste my time here not only with the replica of your inconspicuous speech. Ladies and gentlemen! The starting point, i.e. 302,000 unemployed in 1997, is clear and clear, and the rate of increase in the previous month is the same. I should therefore like to make the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] I should also like to make a third request, ladies and gentlemen, to make. [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] I think it is very useful to discuss this package. In my opinion, with regard to the current employment situation, but also with regard to the possibilities and the desire of some foreign workers to return to their homes and there to build an infrastructure, says: a medium-sized one, is a superior aid for structural improvement in our neighbouring countries. I should like to ask you to include these motions for resolutions in the debate.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e7770	The just-readed motions for resolutions have been properly put in place, duly supported and are therefore under negotiation. Mrs. Hostasch has spoken. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e7794	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It has already been said several times today that employment policy cannot be seen separately from other policies, that the fight against unemployment requires a bundle of measures and that it should not be just punctual measures. It is therefore important that all the policy areas for which we are responsible should be involved in the fight against unemployment, the creation of new jobs and the safeguarding of jobs. Active labour market policy, labour market policy as such can complement this policy strategy, but it cannot, of course, create jobs to that extent, create permanent jobs, as the labour market would require, and how jobseekers and we would wish together with them. Nevertheless, I believe that the exclusion of the labour market service, the legal measure you took in this House years ago, has proved to be the right decision, because this has created a comprehensive and job-seekers but also businesses and employees with a wide range of possibilities. I would like to allow you to know a few figures in today's debate, which are not normally used in political argumentation, but I would like to stress how extensive the activity of the labour market service is, in other words, our labour market policy. It was helped by the employees of the labour market service in 1996, about 728 000 unemployed, about 80 000 people in need of professional guidance, about 40 000 job seekers and about 20,000 people. They were advised, and they were given the basis for their livelihood. There has been cooperation with over 150,000 employers. This cooperation is also the basis for bringing to a hat the wishes that come from all sides. We will be able, and I am convinced that this will succeed, to bring about 420 000 unemployed people back into employment in 1997 and to occupy around 220 000 open jobs with the help of the labour market service. There are also about 35 000 job seekers who should be included in a job relationship. Our programs go in the same direction. However, it has already been said today that the structure of the unemployed shows that the less well-qualified who are poorly qualified are particularly at risk of unemployment. Therefore, this group of persons is also a specific target group dedicated to the labour market service, which is dedicated to labour market policy. In 1997, some 3.7 billion schillings – which is also equivalent to the care of approximately 60 000 unemployed – are used for continuing vocational qualification, training and re-training. This will lay an important foundation for the reintegration of those who have been pushed out of the labour market. However, I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that we have also taken innovative and new steps in the labour market service, namely that we have created an industrial integration aid and a non-profit integration aid. We therefore offer 12 000 emergency workers not only the opportunity to secure their existence but also the chance of integration into the work process. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Some 2 billion schilling will be made available for these new actions in the framework of the labour market service. This is, as I believe, a very good investment also in the future of our youth. Youth keyword: There is also a need for training to ensure that some 8,500 job seekers can still be specifically promoted over the labour market service in this year. I deliberately say "targeted" because, in addition, general measures are also taken for apprentices. I could list some other measures offered in the context of the labour market service, but this will not be done for reasons of time. I would, however, like to announce that we are working on new, innovative projects, on projects that should be supportive if job seekers choose to become entrepreneurs themselves. There is also a starting aid to be given. There are also considerations about creating a job rotation with project models and thus creating bridging opportunities. I would like to give these examples because it is clear that flexibility is very high in the framework of the provision of labour market services and is very useful and very helpful for the labour market. The target groups of the labour market service are mainly long-term unemployed, women – and the latest labour market development shows that women are disproportionately affected by unemployment – and disabled people and young people. However, we have also intensified contact with the companies because this contact is necessary for job placement. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I can tell you that a record value of 7.5 billion schilling for active labour market policy will be available for 1997 and that we can therefore set very important incentives for job security and job creation. Of course, as far as possible – and we have taken a very high degree of exhaustion – funds from the European Social Fund. We are proud to be among those countries that have the highest degree of exhaustion in the recovery of funds from Brussels. As much was also discussed today about vocational training and the apprentices: In the next few days, Mr Farnleitner and I have taken over the opportunity to discuss with the social partners what measures we can still take in order to improve the apprenticeship market, apprenticeship employment, so that it can also achieve a balance between training and non-training firms, and so that vocational training can also be adapted to those considerations which are now associated with the reorganisation of the trade regulations. I would also like to stress: We must always be aware that changes in the trade regulations also have an impact on collective contractual competence and collective contractual responsibility. We have a new, large task area in front of us, which we will certainly deal with in the interests of our people. Let me also point out, however, that, of course, we are trying to look back on how other countries are doing, how they are fighting this negative development, this scourge of unemployment. The view over borders shows that in other countries too, efforts are being made to combat unemployment with different concepts. Here we are repeatedly referred to the model of the Netherlands as an example, and I will soon get to know myself on the spot and look at this concept more closely. Factim – and I would like to say this with some pride from the Austrian point of view – is: This programme in the Netherlands started in 1982 and is primarily based on the fact that the method of converting full-time employment to part-time employment has been chosen to distribute the existing labour potential into a total package, of course linked to insignificant income reductions of employees. I believe that, when we talk about part-time work, we should always have the thought in the back of the mind that this effect is connected to it – without, in principle, referring to it as bad or unthinkable. But one thing: If we compare our unemployment figures with those of other countries, countries that have developed their own concepts, then it turns out that our concerted, in all areas – up to foreign employment – very responsible policies actually provide the best numbers of unemployed and labour market data, that we could really offer the Austrian population, job seekers, those who are in employment and are threatened with unemployment the best overall programme and will certainly also offer in the future. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! I should like to make a few comments, especially on the last contributions to the debate on the question of the protection of workers. Today, in the debate by colleagues of the liberals, the opinion was expressed – a little attenuated against what is said in the "Ally for Labour" – that the Workers' Protection Act should be loosened. In this concept of the liberals, it was said that the Workers' Protection Act should be suspended at all. Ladies and gentlemen! I ask you to consider what that would mean. It would mean that workers would have to work under conditions which are not regulated, and it would mean, for example, that the occupational health service would also be called into question that medical, but also safety, care is not ensured. All of this would lead to a great danger to the workforce, but not least to its service providers. I would like to remind you that in this House - and I have still been able to vote as a Member - the Workers' Protection Act has recently been amended. This law has taken very useful measures, measures which have on the one hand brought relief to small and medium-sized enterprises and, on the other hand, new activities, such as teleworking, into the Workers' Protection Act. It shows: If you want to, you can bring both sides of mind into a hat without losing the important idea of protection. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, It was here that night work was mentioned and that the ban on night work should be abolished. I share the view of all those who believe that we should create a law on night work for men and women alike. However, I believe that this law must take account of the fact that night work is a particularly stressful activity. Therefore, this law should also include compensatory measures as an essential component. I am confident - after yesterday's agreement on flexible working hours - that we will succeed in resolving the issue of night work and in having constructive discussions with the social partners on a night work law for men and women alike. In this sense, I also ask you to support us so that we can further develop our social rights, while respecting all the interests that are in need of protection in our working world. The workers are still on the weaker side, so they need our special support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e7925	Thank you very much, Mrs. Federal Minister. Mr Magistrate has now been reported to speak. Maier. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e7949	Dear Members of the Federal Government! Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Today we have to discuss a "union for work", an alliance that does not deserve this name. On the one hand, it does not address the problems of job-seekers; on the other, it does not contribute to the fight against unemployment. It certainly does not provide for more work and a fair distribution of this work. In short: I consider it a collection of illogical demands combined with half-truths and untruths. Let me present this briefly. Mr Haider criticised the social partners' agreement on working time flexibility. ÖGB President Vergestnitsch gave him a very clear answer. I can complement it with the new collective agreement from the metal industry, which clearly provides benefits for workers: up to one week more leisure time by means of time supplements, time sovereignty, related leisure time, secure basic income, increased job security and prevention of redundancies, short-term work and seasonal unemployment. This also brings benefits to the employer, and there are generally economic benefits. How can one give up in the argument? – It is incomprehensible to us. If you look at this "congregation", it is noted that it is more a alliance for a union of envy. What's this about? – It is against the unemployed, against pragmatic officials, it is against certain groups of workers, for example in the field of ETUs, and it is against foreigners. It is supported by a policy of egoism that really calls into question an open society, when I still understand our society. Thirdly, the question of costs. The cost of this programme has not been addressed in any way. I do not even want to address these tax reform ideas, but I am also concerned with the social costs of this policy. I am referring to making it clear that there is a danger that the foundations of our society, which are relevant to our political stability, will continue to be removed for our democracy. I therefore use a phrase used by Mr Haider – he is not here now – for this reason: He's been talking about a "hanebuck's stupid." I'll give it back to him. It's "hanebuck's stupid." Fourthly, we must deal with these half-truths and untruths. In this context, I would just like to remind you of the discussion at the ORF last Sunday. When it came to the question of overregulation, the honourable Member, Mr Haider, made quite an outrageous point that a table-keeping company with seven employees was required to park seven parking spaces for the workers. I have checked whether there is a legal basis for this. There is no legal basis for this. But I know – and I see Mr Graf in particular – that there are excellent lawyers in the freedom of movement, and I would recommend to them to inform their party presidents that this is simply a nonsense. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: It's actually ten, you're right!]] I would like to mention one very briefly. Mr Haider has asked the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany to order his party and to call the Member Wedenig from Carinthia to Raeson – or something similar. I quote from the "Little Newspaper": Mr Wedenig received an asylum offer from the Liberal Party yesterday. On Monday, the liberals added another piece to the terrible picture that Carinthia has been offering to the public for weeks, with its asylum offer, to the parliamentarian Dietmar Wedenig, who has been excluded from SPÖ. Only F-Klubobmann Martin Strutz, who has revealed the signatory scandal, now provides for his expansion. [[Abg. Meisinger: You deliberately say the untruth!]] The fact that Strutz, who has called the loudest for political responsibility and consequences, can no longer be taken seriously right now is a problem for the liberals. - As far as the quote is concerned. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I'll hold on to this. We have drawn the consequences, the liberals not yet! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Meisinger.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We recently had a very emotional debate on health policy in Austria. [[Abg. May. Trattner: What are we tossed about?]] Unfortunately, I do not see Mr Pumberger, who wanted us all to know that in the hospitals in Austria, sick people would no longer be treated that injured people would be bleeding because there is this willingness to call. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You're a terrifier!]] It was announced by the liberals a doctor's people's desire. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This doctor's popular desire threatens to become a flop. And I'm holding on: This "ally for work" too will be a big flop, yes, this flop has already occurred. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Meisinger: There you have already taken care of 300 000 unemployed!]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The aim for us Social Democrats is: Employment for all those seeking work is the top priority of our short-, medium- and long-term policies. Maintaining work and creating work is the central issue of the next time. I come from a federal country with a relatively low unemployment rate – it is only 4.6 percent – and yet we have a number of problems, problems in the working world, where employees are cheated by not paying them the wages due to collective contract law, for example, by trying to undermine labour law, for example during extended working hours, and by forcing workers from trade chains and companies to sign works contracts for services on Saturdays. We know of apprentices who do not receive the reward that is due to them. For example, a Kosovo Albanian was almost used as a slave by a vehicle mechanic in Salzburg, it was not paid to him either. We know how management of employees is doing and how they are dealing with business agreements. For example, the management of the company RUWIDO presented to the employees individual contractual working time regulations about a specified slip time, which was then signed, under pressure, because the workers were put under pressure, although this is not legally permissible. However, we also know of the problems in the construction industry, where – I say another example – works councils are pressured to agree to a certain working time agreement. That's why I'm gathering: For us, it was absolutely necessary for this social partners agreement to be reached. Only a binding collective agreement guarantees sufficient protection and prevents workers and works councils from being put under pressure. And I can calm down the Freedom Party: Infringements against this regulation continue to be pursued by the Chamber of Labour and the Austrian Trade Union Confederation, which is quite strict. Finally, one more thing: What about this "ally for work"? I would like to put it to the point: It is comparable to the Ebola virus: absolutely fatal for Austrian workers and the Austrian economy.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e8060	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl. First, please reflect the case to be corrected and then the correction. Duration: 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e8084	Mr President. Mr Maier, in his statement, said that the liberal clubman Dr. Strutz had offered political asylum to the Member involved in the signature scandal. This execution is incorrect. It's true that Dr. Strutz said: I have never offered the honourable Member political asylum. I regret my statements that have created the possibility of misinterpretations. My attitude to the signature affair and the behaviour of the SPÖ delegates is probably clear and documented by press services. That is why there can be no cooperation with Nobleness as always. I would just like to draw attention to the fact that a wild Member's fact has to be dealt with in the Landtag. The APA also made a clarification. I think that this is the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e8119	Another actual correction was made by Mrs Rossmann. Please, ladies and gentlemen. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure are known.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e8144	I am correcting Mr Maier's statement that there would be no legal basis that would require a minimum number of parking spaces. I'm actually correcting: That's wrong. You know very well that parking is very likely to be required in the course of the commercial law procedure in the case of new business start-ups.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e8174	Mrs Gredler has now been mentioned. Please, ladies and gentlemen. 7 minutes of voluntary time limit.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e8195	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I read here, Minister of Finance Edlinger, on his entry into Brussels, that he could imagine a kind of eco-tax for Austria, with regard to non-renewable resources and profits to relieve the labour factor, but at the same time he says that this could only be effective from the year 2000. I put this to the debate here. I believe that the Danes have been doing very well for over a decade, and I would recommend to Mr Edlinger not only to go to Brussels, but also to Denmark to find out. He then goes on to say that he does not want to take tax measures according to the hip-shooting method. Since I am not only a doctor, but also in the Federal Army Complaint Commission, I have a relationship with hip shots, I think, too. I would suggest that he should address those colleagues who have been dealing with matter for 20 years. We do not need to wait until the year 2000 with the introduction of the eco-tax, but we would be able to introduce it as early as next year, even if other European countries are not willing to take part at this time. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I therefore allow myself to put forward a motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] I'm with 1. In January 1995 the European Parliament came to the European Parliament and had already followed the Essen European Council very closely and the Council meetings that were held thereafter, and we have always been accused of needing a European consensus to combat unemployment. In Europe, we spend a total of ECU 350 billion a year on unemployment aid. I would just like to remind you that the NOW programme, i.e. the New Opportunities for Women programme, receives 470 million ECU in 5 years, but, on the other hand, it supports annual tobacco cultivation in the EU with nearly ECU 2 billion and the cultivation of silkworms and textile plants with ECU 871 million. Sometimes I wish that the attention to silk caterpillars will also be transferred to women, because this would lead to a doubling of their programmes. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on representatives of the SPÖ.]] Six women's advisory bodies have been locked up in Austria, and others are threatened by the closure because they are supposed to have too high a per capita share and because they do not have enough mediation. If one of these were affected, I'd say maybe it's not all right to manage this consultancy, but if six and more are affected, then I think it's a system mistake that you have to correct. The changes should mean that the evaluation of the work, i.e. the scale by which we orient ourselves in the remuneration, is that the value of the work should be rethinked. Women are becoming less qualified than men. Women also have to fear longer unemployment, women also have to fear higher rates, both for older women and young people. If unemployment in Austria is rising as it has risen in the last month, then only because women are affected to a greater extent than men. Finally, I would like to say something to my heart: It is always watered against foreigners by this side of the house. [[towards Freedomable Wise]] It is very easy to bet against foreigners, because they do not even have the opportunity to articulate themselves adequately. For example, one does not even want them to be integrated into the university processes and to be able to take part in them, but one also wants to keep them away from this area. We need her. There are countries in the EU that now insist that they need them to finance their social system. We need them in Austria because we benefit from them. I hope that this will eventually be included in the calculations of the liberals, that we will not be able to do so without foreign workers. What I absolutely can't understand is if you're against family union. It does not lead to an extension of child labour in Austria, because it is well known to be forbidden with us. So I don't see why they can't go in. This is not at the expense of the adult employment rate, and therefore I do not really see any sense of punishing children or families, just because this calls for the flat policy of the Freedom Party in Austria, but apparently it is also desirable in other parties. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meisinger.]] I would just like to comment on the motion for a resolution. The pikanery is in the last paragraph: Abolition of health certificates and the health certificate fee. – We have had it for a month and a half, and now you want to abolish it again because you want to switch to the chip card system. I have nothing against it, but why did you even introduce it? You should consider next time if you decide a law or a change, whether it would be useful at all if a better system could be extended.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e8301	The motion for a resolution previously read has been properly tabled, is supported accordingly and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Puttinger has now been notified to the House. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e8325	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! 30. January 1996: Latest demand by the FPÖ on record unemployment, 22. May 1996: Question by the FPÖ on unemployment, 18. June 1996: Question about foreign policy and jobs. 10. July: Request for urgent action, 11. July: Surprising question, 29. November: On 12 July the Commission adopted a proposal for a Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to turnover taxes. ==References== Yes, the same thing again. Special meetings and urgent questions on the same subject always take place here immediately in a row. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: Such measures are necessary!]] [[Abg. Meisinger: You are juicy!]] You, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, are only expecting publicity. Publicity is your first priority. That's your right. We do not expect any concepts from you at all from ÖVP. We don't think we can get some from you. They could report to the debate on small and medium-sized enterprises. They could report to the debate on tourism policy. They would have been able to report on the statements made by the Federal Ministers on 7 July. ==References== In June 1996, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of You have failed all these dates to bring in your ideas. I think you've had enough opportunities. You can't bring in your ideas because you just don't have one, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Exciting with you is only with what reasoning They come, that is, depending on whether you just have more love for the workers or whether you have more love for the entrepreneurs. If you have discovered it, then turn to one side or the other, depending on which clientele you want right now. [[Abg. May. Trattner: Mr Puttinger! A proposal!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! Entrepreneurs will be grateful if Her supervisor, Haider, says he took up the heritage of Kreisky. We're a workers' party in the classical sense, he's on the 15th. It was said in October 1996. Or: In his book "The Freedom I Mean" he says: I'm the better worker leader compared to Vrannitzky. – The entrepreneurs will wonder, you can imagine what they think of it. I'd just like to tell you that. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Böhacker.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I don't want to go into Kreisky's heritage, nor do I want to be a better worker leader. But we know that we have problems in the labour market, we know that we have to deal with how we can create work. However, we also know – and I can say this positively as a tourist speaker – that employment development is a positive factor in the field of services that the number of people employed in the tourism sector has increased from 154,000 to 164,000. We know that service is the future and that 62 percent of Austrians already work in the service sector. The final conclusion of the social partners on flexibilisation was the right step. Above all, however, we must attach particular importance to the flexibility of working time in tourism and drive it forward. We have to act as quickly as possible – for an industry that is very important for the Austrian economy. We have – regardless of whether it is a collective contract or other legal matter – to act! [[Abg. Böhacker: You've been saying that for ten years!]] I am thinking of the equality between apprentices and young people, I am thinking of changes in the ban on night work as well as at the maximum working time or at the end of the weekend rest, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Because we want to work, and we do something – and you always talk. They make demands – we make active policies! [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] We have created models of eternal mortgages, we have brought small and medium-sized enterprises to the stock market. We are not here – and I am sorry that you feel otherwise – to set up a continuous stereotype claim to provide for the tax exemption of the profits not collected. One thing should not be clear to you: that a single demand is never an economic concept, but the FPÖ has never succeeded in anything else. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I do not want to say your list – "concept" – of the latest FPÖ paper available to me, which deals with the economy, taxes and employment, contains records that I do not want to keep from you. For example: For this reason, the Freedom Party sees itself as the only one able to carry out in Austria those reforms and measures that guarantee Austrian security. – I have to tell you: Ask the citizens outside what FPÖ has done in the last 50 years! But it's even better: Point 1 of this Guide Proposal states: In order to increase budgetary and financial manoeuvrability, the budgetary principles need to be given greater attention in the future. – I am delighted that the FPÖ finally came upon it – on 11 November. 11th@item: inlistbox In 1996, I hope it was not at 11.11 a.m. – that we are dealing with budgetary principles. It is the first time the FPÖ has detected this. But it's even better: A little further under point 1.4 reads: New burdens on the budget should only be borne in mind if there is an comprehensible proposal for cover. – I would like to say: Tell me when you've ever covered your demands! When did you cover the tax advantage? When did you cover the drinking tax? When did you cover the municipal tax? When did you cover your demands that you have now made to the extent of 100 billion? When did you cover the 210 billion schilling when you demanded to reduce the tax rate from 43 to 35 percent? – There is no scientist who gives you the right, ladies and gentlemen. If you read all of this, you will find no indication of how such a tax system should work at all. You will find no indication of how you want to change income and wage tax rates, you will find no indication of how you work jobs – I would rather say: Work – can create. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Your concept lacks well over 300 billion schilling, your concept – apologise: Your list – it only consists of keywords. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, I would like to tell you the secret of covering your proposals, namely that you use the extra income from the eco-tax system several times. They say: Abrachabra one! and thus cover the loss of revenue for the countries and for the municipalities. Then you say: Abrachabra two! and thus cover the social suspension of low-income households and the partial reimbursement of energy-intensive production. And then a third time say "Abrachabra!" and thus finance the reduction of additional wage costs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This is proof that the liberals are nothing but ordinary sorcerers. – That’s very funny to see, but in reality they only work with loud tricks. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Spell Teachers!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I'd like to tell you: Faith You don't believe these prophets, you don't believe the sorcerers, otherwise a bungee jumping will eventually become a jump without rope!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e8485	Mr Van der Bellen is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Please, honourable Member. Voluntary time limit to 10 minutes is indicated.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e8506	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! My voice is much quieter than that of Mr Puttinger, but I hope that I can still make myself quite understandable. I would like to say a few words about – almost I would have said "statement" – German Chancellor Klima's opinion today, which was largely in order in substance, was most welcome. The problem is just: Nothing of that is actually new. Almost all of this has been demanded by all opposition parties for years. Acting is now announced and not plausible. On some points: Much was said about the expansion of the infrastructure. Unfortunately, Minister Farnleitner is not here now, but Minister Farnleitner is just about to fail in an essential point of infrastructure, namely in the reform of the energy industry, the EVUs in Austria. Point 2: Technology billions: So after this theater in recent years, one must be glad if now there is the only technology billion – admittedly, I had actually given up hope. [[Abg. Böhacker: She's not here yet!]] – She's not here yet, but maybe she'll be there soon. The fact that, at a budget volume of 700 or 800 billion for an area that is always referred to as a priority is not driving up these 1 billion, but taking it out of privatisation, has always been kind of embarrassing. Tomorrow is the Committee on Industry – we will see if there is more concrete to hear than today. As you have read from the newspapers, Director-General Hochleitner von Siemens and Prof. Schmidt from the Research Fund Fund are project leader – whatever that may mean. Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council and the President-in-Office of the Council. Of course, Siemens is not completely uncontained in technology promotion programmes, so we will have to look at what is being done here in concrete terms. This one billion a year is a one-time, perhaps twice-funding, but what remains again – to my regret – is a kind of foundation model, as proposed by the Research Fund, which would allow funding to be put on a permanent basis, so that we do not have to wait every year, whether perhaps a Bröserl CA or Bank Austria or whatever is privatized to get funds. Thirdly, New ventures, new installations, a wave of founders, which perhaps threatens to hit us in 1997. - I don't think so anymore. I've heard this too often since I've been in Parliament – that's probably not long enough, you haven't bred enough yet –, I don't believe in it anymore, but we'll see. The approval procedures are too long. Of course, the Greens have always said this: The approval procedures are generally too long. I myself was once involved in a trial as an expert, which a dozen administrative court judgments have needed to enable the plant to go into operation. This was not the Green Blame, but the issue was a dispute between a social democratic township and the black state government in Graz. That these procedures take so long is very often due to the judicial system and not to the opposition of the arrants and other stakeholders. Industrial reform. - I'm not commenting on that. I'm waiting for what Minister Farnleitner is presenting here. His predecessor has failed, we all know. However necessary this reform is, the Chamber of Commerce is essentially blocking reforms in this area for decades. I already know that there are other established interests, for example, in the field of professions, I also know that the Chamber of Labour is partly blocking reforms here under the pretext of consumer protection. Fourthly, qualifications, educational expenditure. Is that supposed to be a priority? – The Federal Chancellor has noted that human capital is the most important capital in this country, but education expenditure is not a priority in the budget. I didn't notice. The budgets of the individual departments have been continued or all percentage cuts have been made. After all, there is something to be done in apprenticeship training – soon, it's called. I hope that will be the case. It would be nice after the Debakel 1996, where the social partners were unable to make a regulation. In this context, the Greens are submitting a resolution on measures to improve apprenticeship training. All those who are interested know the problem for years, know about the decline in the number of open apprenticeships or the increase in the number of job seekers. There were 30 percent less open apprenticeships in January 1997 than in the previous year. The reverse applies to the job seekers. To this end, we make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Another point on today's declaration by German Chancellor Klima: It may already be that 7.5 billion schilling is available for active labour market policy, but we all know that this is relatively small in international comparison. Austria spends a lot on passive labour market policies, but little on the active ones. We also allow ourselves to submit a motion for a resolution on new instruments of active labour market policy in this respect. This is essentially about creating longer periods of time – six months, one year – during the working life in which one can consume a paid holiday and someone else, preferably a long-term unemployed person, can occupy the job. It is about three things: the work leave and the educational leave, which both can be used depending on the duration of insurance, and thirdly, the so-called entry premium, a job rotation model. [[Quoted print version removed]] I would be pleased if you could agree to these requests. What I missed in the Federal Chancellor's statement on climate is specific measures in favour of the lowest wage segments. There is still the focus of unemployment. The idea of the Federal Minister of Finance Lacina at the time could be taken up, to cut or break employers' contributions to social security in these lower segments, or to take up the ideas of Prof. Scharpf, whom he presented a week ago in the Federal Chancellor's Office, about wage subsidies under certain conditions. Finally, I am of course pleased to have heard that even the Federal Chancellor has now understood that the energy tax reform, the resource tax reform is not a split of green spiders, but a sensible tax reform programme. There has already been enough advice from WIFO and others. By the way, there is also a more or less thick book by the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs – it is no longer a representative there, but perhaps they read their own books – from 1995 or 1996 on the Austrian economic location, and there are a lot of points inside that we could easily support from a green point of view: sustainability, energy tax reform and so on. But that's paper, and that's the eternal problem in Austria: Opinions, ideas, proposals are enough, but they are not taken into account in practice, and if they are taken into account, then ten years too late. By the way, I find the luxury to be on an article in the Financial Times of the 14th century. ==References====External links== These newspapers won't read many. What I see here in the hall is preferable to small-format leaves. But if you want, I'd like to give you a copy of this article, which means: Economists back call for new carbon taxes, in German: Economists support the call for energy taxes – and not any economists, but more than 2,000 professors of American universities, including Harvard, the MIT and their names, and among these 2,000 there are no fewer than six Nobel Prize winners. This is only addressed to those who believe that energy tax reform is something strange that economists cannot support. Mr President. I'll take one or two minutes to say something to the liberals. I was once again fascinated to see with what course of course and with which bravor are proposed here, without saying whether there is an analysis of whether this can really work or under what conditions it works – and so on. Of course, one can discuss the issue of non-taxation of non-taxable profits, but you have not made it clear with any word – not before yesterday in the "press hour" or today – why this automatically leads to additional investments, why this should automatically lead to additional employment. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] The story is not new: At the end of the 1970s, at the beginning of the 1980s, we discussed this question quite intensively. Among other things, there were concerns at the time: Do we really want the profits to be practically frozen in the existing establishments? On the contrary, do we not want certain capital mobility to exist between businesses? – This is hampered by such a measure. If you already stick to this proposal, which is your right, I ask at least the taxpayers among you to consider: If you do not tax the profits not taken, does that not mean that you have to give up the income tax for businesses at all? I personally do not consider entrepreneurs to be deficient, these are generally wise people, and they will not take the profit if they have one, but probably then, if they have a loss year, they take out revenue - tax-free in the current income tax system. So if so, then we have to approach the whole thing with the word 'operating tax', as it was said at the time, namely that one separates between the holding and the person who makes the withdrawals, and the withdrawals are then taxed separately, which has a certain appeal, I say quite openly. Apart from how this actually happens, there would be a differentiation between individual companies and capital companies. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Böhacker.]] You can discuss this. But, dear, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals, this must really be: Whenever it comes to the euro, the EU or anything else in this context, does the word "currency reform" fall sooner or later, like Amen in prayer? – You know very well – Mr Haider is an intelligent person, who knows exactly that – which associations are triggered by this: This is Germany 1948, which is Austria in the early 1920s. These have been monetary reforms, but the euro is quite different, and you know it very well. They simply use the fear that exists – that it exists is not to deny – and it is very difficult to take this fear to the people. They drive a riskless game with such things. Do you really talk to one of your Members, whom I have already sat with on the panel in Austria, whom we discussed about democracy, namely, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn, and say, You really are what a paper industrialist in Austria thinks of European monetary union! The statements made by Dr. Haider on Sunday and today are diametrically opposed to what I have already said by Mr. Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn has heard. This must also be the case because, of course, monetary union, at least in certain areas, is in line with the interests of industry. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e8607	Mrs Hagenhofer has now been reported to speak. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e8628	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! I'm sorry, I've been looking for you there. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein is not on the government bank.]] No, that's not a call. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein leaves the square next to Abg. Dr. Khol.]] There is no general solution to combat unemployment – that has been said many times today. But there are, as I mean, some solutions that we should discuss, which we can certainly transfer or adapt from one region to another, if they fit there. I am referring to regional initiatives in particular. An example from my daily work practice: A woman with 52 years of age came to me to the AMS and told me that she had worked for her family for a lifetime, that she had been cleaning up next door, that marriage had now been broken, and she was there without a claim to pension without a claim to support under the unemployment insurance law. There are men with 50, 52 years of age who would like to work but who – for whatever reason – are not allowed to enter the labour market. They told me that they would love to mower lawns, do small repairs if only they knew where and if they should. This idea led us in the Braunau labour market service to start a project in which we try to get work that actually happens, but is done in the grey zone, out of the grey zone and then in the form of a social-economic operation. The project preparation is completed so far that we can start with the appointment of persons in May. I believe that this is a step in the direction that we can give people pension months, that we can give them social security benefits and that we can give them employment. Another example: On the one hand, we have unemployed teachers, on the other we have children without afternoon care. What is more obvious than taking care of looking for employment for unemployed teachers in the form of a project in which we are providing afternoon care and learning for the children who do not have care? I don't mean after help in the classical sense, but learning. One thing I am particularly pleased about – and this must also be said here: They all know the personnel leasing companies working according to the method that people are employed for so long as orders are available. If orders are no longer there, they will be sent back to the AMS as unemployed. We have developed a non-profit association under the premise of recruiting long-term unemployed persons in the association for two years, and during the time when there is no employment opportunity, the unemployed people will be qualified. I believe that these are also appropriate measures to combat unemployment. I am particularly proud of the following: The President of the Upper Austria Chamber of Commerce, Kaun, has given special praise to the AMS. That must also be said. Ladies and gentlemen! Because today the honourable Member has meant that we are sleeping in the field of technology, I would like to say to him: We're not sleeping. There are telework projects that have been running for over a year. These will now be linked to them in the second phase, and even cross-border. They are executed by both men and women. Teleworking is done in the form of three days at home and two days at work, so that the social connection to the farm is not missing. I would like us to do that too, and in this context I have a request to the Chamber of Commerce: I have read in the "standard" that 300 000 jobs were lost annually in the European Union due to the closure of family businesses due to lack of successors. There is obviously a so-called successor stock exchange in some federal states. I would like to have such a successor market for family companies also in Upper Austria. One last note: In the "Ally for Labour" of the Freemans, it is said that an incentive to work could be created by increasing the difference between income from work and unemployment benefit. This means that nothing more than a reduction in unemployment benefit. This is what I feel in times like those where there is a job shortage – coming from among your ranks, where you are always obliged to take action for the little and the hard-working and the skilled – as a mockery, if you want to reduce the unemployment benefit to the people who want to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e8699	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Trattner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e8721	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is the usual game here in the High House: There are concrete proposals on the part of the Freedom Party to eliminate unemployment, but they are all null and void. Although many of the points we have taken up have already been initiated by the Austrian People's Party in many speeches and requests since the 1990s, you do not want to know anything about them today, since these applications come from the liberals. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But you can't make it that easy. We are also aware of the fact that there is no one-percentage approach to the elimination of the unemployed. There's no patent recipe. But the data speak for itself. How does development look? According to Wifo report, nominal income will rise by 2% in 1997 and real income will fall by 1.6%. You have to think about it! It is important to consider whether there is a certain need for recovery in the wage tax rate or in the income tax rate, especially as wage tax revenue in the last four years has at least increased by 49 billion schilling, if one calculates 1997 – at least 37 percent in the last four years – and the wage increases are on average at 2 percent. If we still consider that the level of employment did not increase, but decreased by more than 20,000 jobs in 1996, we can only see exactly the effect of cold progression, namely that nominally a little more income has been achieved but that real income has been exhausted, in a disproportionate ratio of over 30 percent. There is a need for a correction, and this would be a policy for the small man and for the small woman, namely to make an adjustment in the way that small and medium-sized income earners are constantly confronted with real income reductions, which could actually be ignored by a valorization of the income or wage tax rate. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There's always the fear, and you're wondering: How is that to happen? There is no concrete proposal on how to finance this whole thing. They're worried that they're totally unwarranted. Look at the development in America! In America – by the way also in England – the tax rate has been reduced. The tax revenue in America is 10.4 percent of the gross domestic product, in England it is 9.5% of the gross domestic product, and with our high peak tax rates we have only 9.3 to 9.4 percent of the gross domestic product. What does that mean? Conlusio: A high tax rate, of course, leads to tax evasion, to tax avoidance. If you introduce an acceptable tax rate or put it to the discussion, then you will also increase tax law, get a higher tax base and will at the same time reduce undeclared work to a significant extent. Ladies and gentlemen! According to Professor Schneider, sales in the field of black work, in the so-called grey sector, accounted for almost 200 billion schilling in 1996. The proceeds from the shadow economy amounted to 170 billion schilling in 1995. If you deduct from these 170 billion schilling the lost VAT revenue of 34 billion schilling, the income tax losses of 27 billion schilling and lost social security contributions, then there is still a sum of lost taxes and taxes of 75 billion schilling. However, if you intervene in the so-called "black work" – not only through sharp military controls, but through incentives such as in the form of the "Luxembourg model" – you get the effect of a net profit of 31 billion schilling by reaching only 70 percent of 170 billion. Please, I'll get him! The people outside are not sure what the Federal Government wants to do. I've heard the Federal Chancellor's statement today. Please, these were nine points we've all known for years. I have also heard Mr Vice-Chancellor's speech. This has meant that in any case everything is not so bad and we could practically achieve a balance between the trade deficit and Japan. On the other hand, it does not do anything to eliminate the crisis, nor does it introduce any ideas to combat unemployment. But concrete proposals on which at least one should discuss are simply erased from the table because they come from the liberals. If you continue this type of conflict with the opposition, you will not achieve anything at all. Take an example of Germany. There the government is very willing to include the opposition in the future tax reform. I also think it would be good for you to discuss at least the proposals made by the Liberal Party, to at least deal with them, in order to find a common way of finding solutions – not all of which must be a hundred percent. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr President, Mr Vergestnich has said here today that the funding would be provided anyway. He gave an example of how he could use a support base of 60 000 D-Mark 440 000 D-Mark. Please, that's exactly the wrong way we all don't want to go! We have basically tried to say goodbye to something, namely the promotion of foreign capital. In fact, we want to support the promotion of equity, and a way of promoting equity would be quite objective and simple to recover the profits that have not been recovered so that they can remain in operation and be made available for investment. What happens if the capital base is increasingly narrowed? . I quote the last report on this. That's what it says: 21 percent of all insolvencys are due to a lack of equity. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, let us go about promoting equity instead of always giving lip confessions of our own. Only then will we be able to solve the problems. It can't go on until now. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Chancellor has today criticized the high real interest rates. It was certainly a mistake of monetary policy in recent years to raise real interest rates so high, always as a measure of inflation. However, the inflation rate is too weak a measure, because every time inflation has increased, the central bank has immediately come and has tried to intervene with its monetary policy instruments, through minimum reserves, discount policy and so on. However, it has been overlooked that the inflation rate is wrong, because the inflation rate, the so-called shopping basket, does not take account of those goods and services that can be substituted. It is not taken into account that there are also discounts or special sales. That is to say, an inflation rate has been artificially high to claim a high real interest rate. This has led to the fact that all transfer expenditure and interest rates have been adjusted to the inflation rate as a result of monetary policy instruments and that too high expenditure has been incurred by the Federal Government in the area of salaries and transfers and much too high expenditure in the area of financing costs for the public budget. Minister! You yourself know very well that one percent of current debt means well over 10 billion schilling. That was the development of monetary policy. In America, they have already responded. In America one has responded to the fact that, since one has seen that is a mistake, the real interest rate has been set to the growth rate. This approach should also be found with us in order to prevent a senseless real interest rate, a senselessly driven real interest rate, which has also led to the fact that – and you know this yourself very well – investment assets have become smaller and smaller in the Group balance sheets of the large companies. And due to the high real interest rate, everything went into capital assets or into circulation assets, because a higher return has been achieved there. If this had not happened, one would have changed to the growth rate in time, there would have been a much higher investment tendency on the part of the entrepreneurs. I mean, in this sense, you should really think about whether you should not set aside the inflation rate for real interest rates and apply the growth rate for them. These were some suggestions that one should not go beyond what one should discuss, which one should not simply reject. I ask you to: Invite the opposition to participate in employment policies! I think then we will find a sensible common path. If you always believe you could do it alone, and look at anything other than zero and void, then They are likely to suffer – as in recent years – shipwreck.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e8823	Mrs Brinek is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen. You have a voluntary time limit of 7 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e8844	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Let me approach the issue of work and the future in four points. In 1996, the EU focused on lifelong learning. Start-up, by word, means radical rethinking, learning – rethinking in terms of working time, form of work, with regard to the relationship between education, employment and the labour market. This may sound familiar, but obviously has not been taken seriously enough. It is very concerned that 83 percent of the unemployed only have compulsory education or training, i.e. they have not yet taken life-long learning for themselves, and that a third of young people say that they want nothing more from learning and from education. So that's where it's going. This is also labour market and future policy. Schools that train for the future must therefore refer to intellectual and creative skills. They must help students to avoid the impression that they are already who or something certain and thus the future has been saved. This is not simply to be put into a catalogue of measures, but there is awareness work to be done, on the one hand towards more humility and on the other hand toward unsatisfied curiosity. That must be a programme! With all the attention already devoted to apprenticeship training today, it should be noted that we need a lot of imagination and creativity because the skilled workers of the future will not necessarily be the apprentices of today. The skilled workers at a certain level of the future are the graduates of the University of Applied Sciences. We must expect that work now carried out by apprentices will disappear by disappearing, I say now, in the near future. That means: Focus not only on one division, but on several at the same time, precisely because we cannot predict the future in the classical sense. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] I believe that the Club of Rome was one of the last to take advantage of it. Because we cannot predict the future, we must prepare for it. Second point: Europe and thus also Austria's women want to reconcile work and family. This was recently emphasized in the framework of a large study presented in Vienna. What does that mean? – It means: We have to say goodbye to the two-phase model, which reads: Education – Motherhood – Death or End, and also of the three-phase model: [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Motherhood lasts 90 years!]] [[further calls to the ÖVP]] Education – Motherhood – Re-entry into the profession. Rather, we must come to a new model, which is not at all a phase model, but a simultaneous model with different gravity, not only one for mothers, but also one for fathers. It is only with this that we meet the wishes of the Europeans and the Austrians. I think we must do everything we can! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] At this point, I would like to thank my colleague Ridi Steibl very much for her commitment to flexible working hours and remind her that it was she who brought the action "taten instead of words" to Austria – that initiative that responds to exactly those businesses that respond flexibly to these wishes. We have already been able to identify many companies in Austria as part of this campaign, such as Hewlett-Packard, some banks, Neckermann and others more. I would also like to quote a foreign model at this point. In Germany, there is a company that offers 99 working time models for 280 mainly female workers. The result of this measure is half such a large number of sick people on the one hand and twice as much satisfaction in working and working on the other. We must therefore take this path if we want more satisfaction and more success at work. Point three. The average is no longer good enough, said recently the new head of the world's second largest pharmaceutical group Novartis in Vienna. He added: Everyone needs to do more. – As you know, it takes courage, mobility, dynamics. I assume that the three billions of technology for 1997, 1998, 1999 will lead to a shift in the development of labour market policy. However, this precipitation does not mean, in the conservative sense, holding to work in the primary sector, in the primary sector, namely in production. The technological progress, for example, means – I like to mention this with this now native term – "digital economy". What chances are there? – There are opportunities for women in the service sector, for example as an info-broker, in cyber-consumer care and so on. We also know that 70 percent of the work is done by so-called know-how workers in the economic pioneer countries around the world. – In Austria, it is not even 50 percent who do knowledge work. There's a pick-up! New forms of organization and flexibility are in many mouths. What do they mean in the positive sense? – They mean sovereignty of time, self responsibility and ultimately respect the dignity of the individual. That can only be our goal! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Fourth point – another title or title –: "The end of the work and its future" describes Jeremy Rifkin in his attentively awakening book. This also addresses a problem which, as I believe, also articulates Paul Michael Zulehner, namely: How do I achieve the balance between those who have work in the classically secured sense and those who do, but are not honoured for it? Since the beginning of modernism, we know that man's value has been measured by the value of his labour force, exclusively in the sense of traditional work in the form of extra-domestic activity. Forgetting is all the work that happens between, next to and before. I think this modern model is a very male model. I assume that we will find work in the future and will have to reinvent, re-evaluate activities and work and achieve a balance between men and women. The problem, as I mean, goes deep into working time laws, into pension laws, into social legislation as a whole, into housing policy, into infrastructure policy and in many other areas. The essential laws that we practice today and which we live by are basically based on the questions that have shaped our working world at the beginning of our century. We must come to a general reform of all these laws! However, we will not do so because a party requests special meetings in relatively short intervals. In this way we will not be able to make this general reform. It is to be considered whether the potential involved in this meeting could have been used to reflect on this general reform, whether this potential could not have been used better. But that's what the liberals have to do. Today the government has repeatedly called short-term and medium-term measures for job security and creation. These measures and proposals have also been taken internationally. In addition to these short- and medium-term measures, however, the general reform mentioned above does not save us. We must take time for this, but we must not, on the other hand, leave too much time. The paper of the liberals present to us, which should obviously have been the basis of today's special session, is merely a repetition, an unsystematic mix of confessions, phrases, and random additions after an in-depth study. It does not provide any new ideas or concepts. It is – perhaps it should be – the continuation of the 1970s, keywords: Kreisky, Deficit-Spending-Politics. It's just old. But if we do not want to continue this policy, we do not come around this general reform. Otherwise, it seems that nothing else to say about what I found in the "Small Newspaper" on Haider's appearance in the TV "press hour", namely – I quote –: "New is at least the hairstyle." – That is not enough, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e8915	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Schreiner. Voluntary speaking time: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e8936	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mrs Brinek, we have heard this many times today: We seem to be living in a world of demagogens today. – One such "demagoge" is apparently also Professor Schneider of the University of Linz, who forces the issue of non-taxation of entrepreneurial profits remaining in the company. We live in a world of "demagogens", such as your head of state, Leitl, who also forces this. We live in a world of "demagogens", such as the Finance Minister of Germany, Theo Waigel, who proposed a massive reduction in progression in the German Bundestag. We live in a world of "demagogens", such as the US President Reagan, who has implemented this, and we live in a world of "demagogens", as well as the national economist Laffer – Mrs. Brinek, you may already have heard from him or know him – who meant that there is a tax-optimized curve. If you demand zero percent tax, then there is zero revenue. On the other hand, if you demand a 100% tax, you also receive zero revenue. In the middle there is a percentage which is the tax-optimized rate. And if so many professionals and economists agree, this is not a demagogy that we liberals propose here, but a reasonable economic concept. I must say this clearly to you from this point of view. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] What your Secretary-General Rauch-Kallat has proposed here is not an economic concept. She doesn't know if our concept costs "120 billion" or "210 billion" schilling. – In reality, it costs only 20 billion schilling. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: What does the drink tax cost? What does the municipal levy cost? What is the cost of the sales tax?]] If one calculates the investment-free amount, which can already be tax-minimized, then that will amount to about 15 billion schilling. The non-taxation of unabsorbed profits would, as I believe, be a common, modern way of bringing to the companies the capital they need most urgently, Mrs Colleague. This is really the Crux: Today, we are living in a situation where our companies are not competitive and therefore cannot secure jobs, because they simply do not have capital for marketing measures, for measures to conquer new markets and for a genuine export offensive against their comparable competitors within the EU. This burden on entrepreneurs through foreign capital interest rates would simply be minimized in the system proposed by us, in this type of taxation. Mrs. Brinek! This method would enable entrepreneurs to re-use equity available to them with zero Schilling interest burden. – This is the basic economic knowledge that, as I believe, we can still demand from the ÖVP that it understands. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Or do you believe, Mr Firlinger, that this knowledge of the ÖVP has already come to an end? [[Abg. May. Firminger: Yes!]] It was at least there for the former business spokesman Taus, who once was here in the House. But with its successors, today's economic spokespersons of the ÖVP, this knowledge is certainly no longer available, according to what Mr Puttinger has done here today. [[The ironic hustle and bustle of the Abg. Tichy Schreiter.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would now also like to come to the comments of the Federal Chancellor, who made me laugh today. He said that the euro would be a currency by which entrepreneurs would have to pay less interest in the future. – Ladies and gentlemen! There are currently two currencies that are often requested by Austrian companies in the case of foreign capital financing, namely the Japanese yen, which currently costs only 0.5 percent of credit interest on the EU market, and the Swiss franc, which costs only 1.5 percentage points of credit interest. The Austrian VIBOR interest rate is currently 4 percent, i.e. one more of them. If the euro becomes reality with the so-called silent cooperation between the states and with the political decision that it is implanted, then the interest rate level in Europe – including the interest rate level of the 15 countries among themselves – will probably rise rather than fall. That is to say, the Federal Chancellor and former Finance Minister goes on a path that would be completely counterproductive for the economy, because it is precisely an economy which, due to the misdevelopment of the economic policy of this great coalition, has as high share of foreign capital as Austrian, that depends on this foreign capital! And this foreign capital, if we have the euro, will simply become more expensive in the future – except for a company indebted to a currency outside of this euro block, for example, remains with the Japanese yen or chooses the Swiss franc for foreign financing. However, it would have to bear a much greater risk because these credit currencies could, of course, change to its disadvantage. I should also like to point out that this has also been debated today: There was great excitement because we said that we would use the 23 billion Schilling Pensionsstock of the National Bank as special dividends and bring it to the budget, because you have not been able to break down the cold progression for workers for years on end. There is today a very interesting article in which the Director-General of Wala believes that this reserve resolution would increase the amount of money and thus boost inflation. – It was completely incomprehensible to me! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. At the CA deal, when the price of 17.2 billion schilling was paid to the budget, did you actually mean that would not happen, that would stimulate inflation? - I didn't hear that from you back then. That means that what is right with one another must also be right with the other. You can't measure economically with two different standards! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] One question that also concerns me is the question of the taxation of additional labour costs as well as of additional labour costs. In my opinion, it is unbearable that we should still abolish the municipal tax for apprentices, although the municipalities themselves say they want to get away from this tax, although the municipalities are already trying to keep in municipal council decisions that they do not collect this municipal tax – even if they are at risk of being reduced by the countries in the allocations of needs. This is really a situation that is unbearable! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: That's not true! That's not right!]] The communities say: We can't answer a federal tax anymore. The covenant has brought this to our attention, but we do not want it at all. – By the way, it is unique in Austria’s financial history that such a thing really happens: that the communities defend themselves against it and now run the risk of actually being doubled: on the one hand, because they do not receive the tax, and on the other, because they are to be punished in addition. Ladies and gentlemen! In connection with this entire package and the resolution of the pension deposit of the Austrian National Bank, I would like to make the following three motions for resolutions: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would also like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] It will be interesting how the Lower Austrian ÖVP delegates will present themselves to this request. Our third request is: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! These are very profound motions for resolutions which show that we are free to take seriously the fight against unemployment, with a reasonable economic location in Austria, and that we liberals simply want to enable companies to keep employees and achieve profits! – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e9094	The three selected motions for resolutions: Schreiner, Böhacker, on the resolution of the pension reserve, Firlinger, Schreiner, on the promotion of employment-effective projects, and Schreiner, Böhacker, on the prevention of cold progression, are in accordance with the rules of procedure and are under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Guggenberger. Voluntary speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e9119	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The missing economic policy of the Federal Government is responsible for high unemployment in this country, the liberals claim in their "Ally for Labour". They themselves know that this is, of course, white nonsense. The main causes are global globalisation, which means that national policies have less and less to chat, rationalization, replacement of people by machines, increased competitive pressure by the fall of the Iron Curtain and, last but not least, the quoted shareholder-value philosophy, which leads to equity gains all, but little, almost nothing at all. All of these are very essential causes. You know this, ladies and gentlemen, of the liberals, just as much as we do. Nevertheless, you cannot stand in front of the snake like the famous rabbit. There are, of course, homework to be done. We certainly have too much bureaucracy in many areas. If I may use a picture that Mrs Ederer brought to the "standard" today: We explain a lot as if we had to expect two meters of snow in August too. We know that procedures often take too long. Nor is the courage to risk particularly pronounced everywhere. For example, what we have been able to learn from a statistics last year, namely that some 70 percent of university graduates want to accommodate or accommodate in the public service in the broadest sense, is certainly not an optimal sign of mobility. We also need more internationality in thinking and acting. Because I'm already on the list: It was certainly not the wisdom of the last conclusion that last year we decided here in the house to amend the unemployment insurance law, which means that a unemployed person, who requires more than 3 700 s per month, loses the unemployment allowance for the whole month, so that, of course, he no longer has any motivation to help a few days in a company. So we have a number of homework to do. In many debates, it has already happened: The German Chancellor climate and his team have presented direction-setting, important bundles of measures. It is now about realizing these too. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen: Let's get it started.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e9164	The next speaker is Mr Dolinschek. Time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e9185	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Unemployment has reached a new peak in January of around 302,000 people and an unemployment rate of around 9.2 percent. The increase in unemployment compared with the previous year is 14.6 percent for domestic workers, 23.2 percent for foreign workers. This is compared with a number of 257 000 foreigners employed in Austria. ==References====External links== ==References====External links== Climate the fight against unemployment as the central issue of the future. The economic research institutes expect the unemployment rate to continue to rise in the coming year. For the years 1997 to 2001, an unemployment rate of 7.4 percent is expected. In the years 1992 to 1996, it was only 6.6 percent. An analysis of employment conditions also shows that almost every fourth Austrian worker was already affected by unemployment once this year. The SPÖ is now discussing a change of course, according to which a reduction in working time would be possible and useful even without full wage compensation. So far, it has been true that a reduction in working time without wage compensation has been rejected by the SPÖ and also by us liberals. At present, however, the SPÖ is discussing how a reduction in working time can be used as an offensive measure for job creation even without full wage compensation. Flexible working hours without wage losses due to the removal of overtime supplements would be made competitive by attractive forms of time compensation, says the Austrian Trade Union Confederation. The President of the Austrian Trade Union Confederation, Mr Fritz Verzehnitsch, said earlier in his speech that he had enforced himself: Flexible working hours are now enshrined in the collective agreement. We, too, were liberals for this. That's all right, too. It does not change daily working hours, it also does not change weekly working hours, that is all right. But you, my colleague, used to say: There's no one-way road! – But on this point I disagree. I believe that the new regulation is very likely to be a one-way road, a massive wage reduction for workers. [[Abg. - Where in concrete terms?]] Where in concrete terms? - I can tell you exactly that. I'm working in a metalworking plant. In the past, overtimes were regularly carried there. Through the new scheme, employees now have a net wage loss of approximately 4,000 S to 5 000 S per month. This also affects the premiums. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: I don't know Mr Vergestnich! President Vergestnich can no longer imagine this! The President is so far from reality that he no longer knows.]] [[Abg. Conspicuous: Due to less overtime?]] Yes, by less overtime. But no more people have been hired either. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We didn't have any cancellations, but do you know what happened? – The people who used to do a lot of overtime have minutes today. [[Abg. Forbidden: But not by the agreement!]] Yes, precisely because of the agreement. Because they are no longer paid overtime, because they can only work on a time-to-time basis in relation to 1 : 1, these people are just going home earlier, doing less hours. But somehow they have to come to their money, so they either take on a second part-time job or get their money in the coup. This only revives the shadow economy. That's the other side. You have to think about how this works before! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I mean, it also makes no sense to create new jobs through more flexible working time models, if, for example, 1 000 new work permits for foreign workers are granted at the same time. It also makes no sense to say that the labour market must become more mobile while at the same time having the highest share of Pragmatization in Austria. We have employees in the public service and we have employees in the private sector, but we have the highest share of employment in the area of Pragmatization. That's the cancer damage! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It makes no sense to create new jobs through flexibility without reforming this protected area. If, for example, one looks at the e-Economie, Mr Vergestnich, one must admit that only because of certain privileges in this e-Economie monopoly do we have such a high electricity price today. Many businesses are moving away today, because the e-business produces the electricity too expensive. This will also cause job losses. That's a dilemma! On wage tax reform. In my opinion, a wage tax reduction should necessarily be forced by the Trade Union Confederation to avoid cold progression. If we see today that this cold progression affects the recipients of income between 15 000 and 25 000 s, it should be our concern that this group will be helped. It is necessary to implement a wage tax reform as soon as possible, because this cold progression is particularly affected by the large majority of Austrian workers. In the case of the unemployment rate, the rising unemployment rate is decisive. Above all, youth unemployment is rising enormously. The statistics show the disastrous development in the field of teaching for years. The number of open teaching places is falling dramatically, there is an urgent need for action to advance the attraction of teaching. I therefore tabled the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! The laws of the market are merciless and the rules of mathematics are absolute. One can only consume what one has worked out in the long run. What you borrow you have to pay back sometime. All of this also applies to apprenticeship problems.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e9333	The motion for a resolution just read has been properly tabled and is under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Donabauer. 7 minutes speaking time. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e9357	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! If you have understood Mr Dolinschek, see: So "simple" it is to solve all problems! Very simple: You just need to do something there and there and everywhere, and everything is running! On the weekend, with the help and assistance of the ORF of the F-mover, the Republic was informed that there will be a special meeting today, and all citizens were very much hoping that major proposals would be made today. The interest of you, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals, is so great that not even a quarter of your club is here today. With this, we see what you really want to do here, namely, nothing but polemize and somehow kill time! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] The fact is that there is the phenomenon of unemployment – a very sad development – in almost all industrialized countries and that truly wise minds are trying to change this development because no one can really be interested in simply watching. [[Abg. Dr. Grollitsch: Who you have to answer!]] We often refuse to recognize and acknowledge certain developments when showing the whole problem and the related issues. So we do not want to realize that we have reached the zenith of growth that there will already be corrections for this reason. We do not want to recognize that, although the eastern opening was a great thing, economic policy is still much to be worked out. All of this has to be said sometime! We also do not want to recognize that there is much to be done in Austria. For example, we need to see that we benefit better from the existing markets. Today, Mr Vice-Chancellor and also Mr Bundeskanzler, in their statements, have made an impressive reference to what we will do in the near future – I emphasize: not want to do, but will do it – that exports will be stimulated, for example, so that we in the country have more employment, more value added. Ladies and gentlemen! We will also have to tell our citizens that a major factor of unemployment – Mr Magistrate. Peter will certainly be able to confirm this – for example, in the tourism sector. We have, as I think, even the duty to point out something that we are suffering very much, namely that we have too little demand in the tourism sector and therefore too little employment, but on the other hand, the population spends double-digit billions each year on foreign bookings. That too is something we should talk about. We must also consider how we are approaching changes in the economy and improving education and training. It is not only about watching things change but also about being involved and controlling the changes themselves. Ladies and gentlemen! In my opinion, the postulate to keep work in Europe will have to pay great attention to the WTO negotiations. If Europe is not strongly positioned in these negotiations, it will be overcome even more by the tough competition of the world market. That is why I am glad that we have gone the way to Europe. Even if you do not want to talk about it as initiators of today's special meeting, I will tell you something that has recently been told me in a farm. The farmer told me: If we had not gone this way to Europe, there would have been more than a third of less production in my company because exports would have been lost. We, the government parties, have taken the right course. They did little to support us; neither was that to be expected. We will continue our efforts in this area. We will also have to think about how we can restructure the factor working time, about overtime and much more. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] I have spoken here to encourage us not only to create new jobs in the major cities, but also, above all, outside the rural regions. This is particularly important. There is no point in transporting people to the centres for hours, taking advantage of their valuable time and having them destroyed outside the regions. The government and many federal states have good concepts for this. This is a challenge that we all need to focus on. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] If you believe that the problems are homemade, I recommend reading the book "The Fall of Globalization". There's a lot more terrible written in it. I've been looking at what you've gotten from the F club for today to paper. I can tell you: It's hardly worth the paper, nothing new. We, the ÖVP, on the other hand, have prepared us. Read this paper if you have time for it! We have clear ideas and we will work them together. We're going to do these things, because it's not about anything, it's about people in our country. It's about our future!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e9428	The next speaker is Mrs Rossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e9449	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, I only have three minutes at my disposal. Moreover, Mr. State Secretary Wittmann has "fleet" me, so that no one is present from the socialist government half, but probably some dear friends. As a Styrian Member, I would like to explain on two points how serious it is for the Styrian colleagues with job creation and job maintenance. There is the head of state in charge of Schachner-Blazizek, who places on land, on land: Work needs the land! Work for the country! There is nothing wrong with this. But what does the same thing do? – As a cultural representative, he was responsible for the national exhibition in Styria and knew nothing better to do than award an order for the prospectus production to a Slovenian company – as a volume I remember 700 000 S – instead of commissioning a Styrian company to print. It was similar in the case of the motorway vignette. It's bordering on schizophrenia! On the one hand, you even place on trams in Graz: "Work needs the country"; on the other hand, the order is awarded to Slovenia. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Who was that?]] – The Head of State of the Republic of Schachner-Blazizek. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Unheard of!]] This is just an example of active social democratic labour market policy. Another example of how solidarity with employees and colleagues can be understood in the trade union has shown itself to be a New Year's Eve this year: A high-ranking union delegation of the post has made a trip to Croatia. There is nothing to be said about that, but they may go to New Year's Eve to Croatia. But if you think that an Austrian bus company and Austrian bus driver would have been used for this trip, then you are mistaken. We also know that the Slovenian buses are cheaper, because they are always offered to us again and again, but we drive buses of Austrian companies. On the other hand, the Austrian Trade Union Confederation, with its employees, went to Croatia for Christmas with Slovenian buses and Slovenian chauffeurs. That's what your labour market policy looks like! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I hope that this has become known to many Buschufeuren and the chauffeurs are leaving the union. [[Congratulations on Members of the Liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: Who did the Haider video?]] I have to close because otherwise my colleagues have no more speaking time available. There would be a lot to be said about this. On the spot, where you can act yourself, make sure that Austrian jobs are preserved, and do not claim that our concepts are not in order. They may act directly on-site. Tell your Styrian friends!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e9529	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Gartlehner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e9551	Mr. President! Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that it is not very efficient in this context to take individual examples out. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] I don't think that's unpleasant. I think of it right away. I remember a bad Hong Kong video commissioned by the liberals in hundreds of thousands of pieces. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: Import promotion is this!]] I believe that we will not get far if we debate at this level. I am convinced that this debate was very constructive and qualitative in many areas today. I am surprised at the intensity and quality of the debate this afternoon. The Federal Chancellor has begun this constructive line with his statement. He has said clearly and clearly that it is our duty to promise today that 300,000 jobs could be created in Austria. Because, as many ways lead to Rome, many networked measures are necessary in order to get the problem of unemployment back on track in Austria. I am convinced that there are many good opportunities and opportunities for activities. The Federal Government is already proving its competence here and will probably bring us much joy in this respect with unconventional and efficient proposals it is currently working on in the coming weeks and months. It is also seen that the social partners are ready for innovation. It was only yesterday that they demonstrated high levels of solution, the flexibility of working time in the metal industry. I have no fear of globalisation at all and of a threatening neoliberalism, ladies and gentlemen, because I believe that the Austrian economy, but also the European economy, is still a very strong and innovative one. I only need to think of the high potential that has not been exploited so far, which Austrian companies and companies currently have on European and non-European markets. In this context, the export offensive is to be seen, the Federal Minister Farnleitner has announced today and, in my opinion, the greatest weakness of the Austrian companies should take further action in the marketing sector. I believe that the lack of marketing know-how in the Austrian companies is the weak point. There are also activities in the field of technology policy and technology promotion. The Federal Government has already defined and presented the measures and action lines for the first billion. They are very transfer- and diffusion-oriented, which, in my opinion, is important because they enable companies to quickly realize new technologies and innovations in their business processes. In spite of this, additional measures are needed to force the R&D share in the Austrian companies. Ladies and gentlemen! In addition, there is a whole range of activities in the area of the European Union. One of these measures – we differ in content from the liberals – is the euro. I am firmly convinced that the euro will be a very hard and good currency and that the European Central Bank's central bank will be attractive to the yen and the US dollar. I expect an export offensive in the non-European markets and new opportunities for Austrian and European companies. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e9600	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e9622	Mr President. Federal Minister! I do not have much time to talk about, so I would just like to focus on two aspects. The first aspect is the construction industry. Ladies and gentlemen! We must bear in mind that there are 80 000 unemployed, out of a total of 302,000 unemployed. Some of these are only unemployed because the Federal Government has failed to implement state infrastructure projects before harsh local and regionalization. Federal Minister! I recall the words you needed in the Building Committee in December. At the time, you said that everything would be blocked because Minister of Finance climate would refuse to give green light to the Semmering/S-6 road tunnel, if not at the same time consent to the Semmering base tunnel would be given by the ÖVP. This is the truth, ladies and gentlemen! Therein lies the root of evil. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I am not saying that everything is just about it. However, if one had systematically started one project after another, we would have continued today and would have, instead of 80 000, only 60 000 unemployed construction workers. Second point: I have noted with dismay how salopp "does" Mr. Vice-Chanceller's dish on international monetary issues. It is also a sign to me that the economic competence of the Austrian People's Party can no longer be very well-ordered if Mr Vice-Kanzler says that the US dollar would have been undervalued for years. "They were talking the dollar down" – he needed these words here. In reality, the data of the American economy in the recent past was poor. The budget deficit was high, the trade deficit was high, so the US dollar was low. These are very simple legal acts. If anyone agrees to a failure of this kind, I fear that the next failure, on the question of the single European currency, will be much more fatal. I believe that if we enter the European Monetary Union with no direction, then at the end of Europe we will have a social abyss. I do not want such a Europe. If you, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, want to do so, then you have to answer it. We certainly don't want that!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e9673	The next speaker is Mr Amon. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e9694	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to focus briefly on what Mrs Rossmann said. Madam President, you are ready to take out two individual cases here and claim that this will destroy Austrian jobs. Mr Gartlehner has therefore provided you with the best example of how you destroy Austrian jobs yourself, namely by having 500 000 videos produced in Hong Kong. [[Abg. Rossmann: Are you the defender of the Socialists?]] I also recall Mr Haider, who was transferred two years ago to employ foreign workers in the Bärental. This is a double morale that you show! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Is that an excuse?]] This is what we need to debate here. In truth, you're so upset today... [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: But if you are in the government, you will improve everything!]] No, but one thing can be said because MP Jung claimed in interlocutory calls that the Federal Government was entirely responsible for the number of unemployed. It is important to look very closely at the figures, especially for the youth unemployed: In 1995, we had a 5.6% unemployment rate among young people, with 6% in 1996. A comparison to this: In Spain, youth unemployment was 42.9%, closely followed by Finland, Italy and France. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: You want that as a goal?]] If you are responsible to the Federal Government for having a youth unemployment rate of 5 or 6 percent in Austria, please also make them responsible for having a youth employment of over 90 percent in Austria! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] They also know that we had an absolute unemployment rate of 38 943 in 1996 among young people. In 1997, the figure is forecast to be around 1 000. The Federal Government is also responsible for this, and this is undoubtedly positive. It is important – and certainly this is a very high goal – to take up full employment. In a globalized economy, however, this is just a pious desire. An analysis of unemployment statistics shows that 80 per cent of the unemployed have compulsory schooling or graduation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Salzl.]] We must therefore choose two approaches to counter this: on the one hand, an educational offensive, on the other, an offensive aimed at simplifying the conditions under which one can make oneself independent. There are studies to be carried out, and I would like to talk about them later. The following must be said about the Education Plan: First of all, Mrs Bundesminister Gehrer has already prepared the question of permeability in the education system in connection with professional maturity examination. Secondly, we are already working on the development of vocational education. Thirdly, as the Federal Chancellor has promised, there will soon be a uniform ministry of education. This is a positive development that I think is correct. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: Listen, hear! You can't say that!]] Secondly, in order to simplify the conditions necessary to make themselves independent, we must say: It must be thought that there are studies which say that about 80 percent of students at the University of Economics say before they enter the university that they can imagine making themselves independent after their studies, whereas at the end of their studies only 2 percent of students think that way. There is certainly a need for action. We must make sure that at the universities, students are not getting used to wanting to become independent afterwards. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am happy to hear that there will be an agreement on apprenticeship training already next week – for this there is high time. Obviously, this Federal Government is acting, regardless of whether or not the Freeman is creating panic. Look at tomorrow's "Kronen-Zeitung", then you'll see that you have little success with your special meeting, because you don't even appear in it! – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e9822	Next speaker is Mrs Edith Haller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e9847	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We have had 300 000 Austrian unemployed people and the inconsistencies of our government so far have been free to apply for the special session today. Many facts have already been illuminated. A subject has been short of me in today's debate, namely the field of foreign employment. I really do not want to put national employment and foreign employment against each other. But I think it is time, in view of these figures, to put the facts on the table by means of numerical material from the Central Statistical Office. It is perhaps a coincidence that at the end of 1996 300 000 unemployed people face 300 353 foreigners' jobs. I think we have to look at the following: Even though we have been trying at least in recent years to keep the employment rate stable for foreigners by 8 plus 1 percent, foreigners have also been resident every year. From 1992 to 1996, it was 72 000. Of these 72,000 foreigners, 45 000 were of working age and needed jobs. And these 45 000 jobs would be attributed to the new work permits to foreigners from 1992 to 1996, which amounted to 61 760. This is an aspect which we really need to highlight and which has led the people to feel more and more that we are really right with our proposals in the field of foreign employment. We therefore receive more and more approval of our long-term proposals regarding seasonal model, reduction of unemployed foreigners or reduction of quota. That we are right also shows the first verbal attacks of politicians of ÖVP and SPÖ, who are also going in this direction today. It is simply a fact that every foreigner who now comes to Austria and remains here, an Austrian or a long-term foreigner takes away the job. We have always heard that 300 000 new jobs were created in the era of Vranitzky. – This too must be revised: There were 261 800, of which 114 500 were part-time workers and 39,400 were vacationers in the second year of karenz. The increase in the number of real employees in these ten years was then only 165,000. Among them were 136,900 foreigners' employment permits and 49,800 residents. If this is done again, then the fact that 21 300 jobs have been lost or disappeared in the Vranitzky era due to figures from the Central Statistical Office. That is what the socialist government really does not need to imagine!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e9892	The next speaker was Mr Riepl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e9913	Mr President. High house! Austria is an industrial location, and the industry in our country is currently characterized by different circumstances. A comprehensive structural adjustment, modified technological developments and equipment have a high priority in industry, new forms of work organisation, but also quality requirements for workers are issues and problems that the industry is facing. I believe that it is particularly important to think, in the context of such a debate on aid for these changes, for the firms and the workers employed there. There are, as we all know, different possibilities. However, there are very clear and concrete possibilities in the form of technology promotion or in the form of labour market promotion and worker promotion. What I want to do with the first part of my speech is also to encourage our Minister for Economic Affairs to link and coordinate the funding instruments, whether the Innovation and Technology Fund, the Research Fund, the ERP Fund, or the labour market service measures, in order to help make them even more effective. I therefore advocate a stronger link in the field of mutual recognition of promotions and coordination of promotions within the meaning of industry and the workers employed there. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I believe that in the context of this debate we should once again highlight the work of the labour market service, which I believe is a good work. I would just like to give two examples. For example, in 1996, the labour market service succeeded in reoccupying 75 percent of the open jobs mentioned by the economy within a month. There has never been such a percentage, so it is very positive. It shows that labour market services are therefore very efficient. I would also like to point out that special support measures have been put in place in the area of the unemployed, which have also been extremely positive and have led to the rapid reintegration of most of the persons included in these support measures into the labour market. I believe that even in the area of the innumerable measures of labour market service in terms of improving qualifications, it is possible to speak of successful, active labour market policies. The 3.7 billion schilling provided for in the budget for this year are certainly target-oriented and well-designed money. I would therefore like to thank from this point of view the 2 000 employees in the labour market services. I say thank you for the work, which is not always easy, which is often influenced by the impatience of businesses and workers, but which, as I think, has been successful so far, which should also encourage them to make even better and more successful! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! However, I would also like to address obstacles to the placement of the labour market service there or there and, finally, to support this phenomenon with a practical example, which is a case of many: In Burgenland, there is a repair company that sought the employment permit at the employment office for a skilled worker. A CNC driver was sought, which can also be programmed; for this a gross monthly wage of 13 393 p. – The fact that a top skilled worker is not even 14 000 S is also a reality in many businesses! If you look at the collective contract that has been quoted many times today, you can see that this offered wage for the top skilled worker is 8 167 S or, in other words, 40 percent below the collective agreement! There are, therefore, employers who want to work under the KV, and there are also employers who welcome demands for a reduction in collective contractual wages created by certain political parties. Maybe this employer is one of those! – I think that should be said very clearly. We all know that the liberals, who are always speaking for the workers at this speaker's desk, only a few months ago have demanded that we reduce collective contract wages. It is likely that the said Burgenlander employer has heard this claim and has tried to use it equally. . I believe that we see clearly how the customs image of the liberals is in reality, and I believe that this true moral image of the liberals, which we Socialists are repeatedly pointing to, must also be pointed out, since this is often clearly and clearly contrary to the interests of the workers.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e9981	I call Mrs Povysil to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e10002	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! In my short speaking time, I should like to make the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e10065	The application is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Mr Marizzi spoke for the time being as the last speaker. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e10090	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! High house! My dear! Ladies and gentlemen! I come from a district in which we had great problems a few years ago due to a steelworks closure and structural change. We, the federal government, the country and the region, have then set up jobs together. We also lost facilities through the eastern opening. I just call Euroquartz: In this case it was within a few days the jobs of 160 employees. A new operation will be opened in the next few weeks. But we admit that unemployment is rising. Ladies and gentlemen! The conditions in this district can actually be projected all over Austria. It's like in a little world where the big one keeps their sample: We are affected by structural change, the opening of the East, the globalisation of the markets and the increase in production. Ladies and gentlemen! Today half of the workers produce the double as in the 1970s: These are the major challenges we face, and I believe that we can only solve the problems together. I have already said this in a debate here: The jobs are not about black, blue or red, but about red and white red. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! I listened carefully to your speeches today. You were more moderate, I admit. Nevertheless, expressions have occurred such as "Gaukler", "Unworldly", "Hanebüchener Assassin". – That was rather very, very moderate for your other choice of words! [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Almost state-bearing!]] Almost state-bearing, that's really true! But now to your approaches: The approaches are incorrect. If you read the "Ally for Work" carefully, you can see that it is deceptive. It is not a patent recipe, although you claim it would be one. [[Abg. Böhacker: No one claimed that!]] – I prefer the honest response of the Minister of Social Affairs, Hostasch, who says in a very good interview: There are no patent recipes. It says that rather small steps are necessary and these steps should be taken efficiently. Ladies and gentlemen! It's been said a lot. We support the proposals of the Federal Chancellor Klima and Vice Chancellor Schüssel. They have today presented the prospects for combating unemployment. You of the liberals have meant that everything is right what you say. I've checked this on the subject of apprentices. They have said that there are now 6 000 apprentices without a job. That's not true. It's 4,855. I admit: They only estimated by 20 percent. The numbers are too high. But we have heard today that there should be an agreement at one level, and we are glad about that. To colleagues Schreiner, because this National Bank attack on the resolution of the pension deposit is conducted continuously: It's about 23 billion. Ladies and gentlemen! I had a discussion with the Director-General of the National Bank 14 days ago, in which he explained it quite precisely. These 23 billion also serve as intervention capital. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] You certainly don't know that! Because once the 23 billions are spent, they're pumped. You know very well: In 1993/94 the Austrian Schilling was intervened, and in a few hours 40 billion were lost, ladies and gentlemen. You spend the 23 billion for the tenth time, and we don't want to! – That's why your concept is wrong. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You don't understand!]] I understand, but you don't understand at all. It was said that nothing is happening. – Let’s look at what the Federal Government has proposed! I'm gonna kiss this now. In the construction sector alone, 40 billion schilling will be used, and this will create at least 20 000 additional jobs, only by what will be preferred in the near future. To the EU: They say again and again that everything that is done in connection with the euro is bad. . I say that what the Social Democrats in Brussels say is important: In addition to an economic policy, there must also be an employment policy. Otherwise, the four freedoms in the European Union will have a fifth freedom, namely freedom to unemployment. Ladies and gentlemen! The Socialists are the party that certainly wants to prevent this, and we have brought it into Brussels. I only recall the attitude of Vranitzky and the current view of climates. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! To conclude: We do not want to go back to the 1930s. Only together can we fight the main enemy of democracy, namely unemployment. And I believe that the Federal Government has taken the right steps today and will continue to put them at the right speed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e10172	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Hazelsteiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e10193	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in plenary! Unfortunately, policy can only contribute modestly to solving the problem of unemployment. It is simply a fact that jobs are not created by politicians and not by politics, but by economic people, by businesses, by customers, by demand, by individuals and by facts which are not so politically affecting. However, there are many sub-areas in which politics should, of course, provide the much-known and often quoted and, as I would like to say, provide a lot of conjugated framework conditions, or make them easier for these market participants to create jobs. One of the segments in which policy can operate is certainly the area of stock exchange legislation. In this area we have a real Austriancum: We have a stock exchange that is currently organised as a chamber and which is largely dependent on Austrian banks that have a conflict of interest because they influence this stock exchange in different roles. What is surprising, ladies and gentlemen, that the Austrian capital market has been suffering for years and that Austrian companies are suffering from a lack of capital? This has already been identified and regretted several times by all political groups. – negative effects on the employment situation are, among other things, a consequence. We would therefore like to draw your attention to this illustrious situation again. We allow ourselves to make a request aimed not only at making plans and promises, but also at discussing in plenary what is the best way to strengthen equity. The motion for a resolution reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! I think that this request could be given the undivided approval if you seriously mean what you have so often conspired here. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! If I doubt this seriousness, then because today I have read with astonishment your motion for a resolution, through which I feel simple and appalling. – The two government parties submit the following motion for a resolution: "The Federal Government is asked to implement the measures developed under the so-called export, construction and technology offensive as far as possible. These include, inter alia, the following measures..." There has already been a construction, technology and export offensive. Measures have been drawn up within the framework of this offensive. And the government is being asked to implement these measures now! What are the specific measures that have been developed and the implementation of them? – It is once called the construction site. To this end, I must say: It is nice, ladies and gentlemen, if you decide now that you are putting 19.3 billion schilling into federal road construction and giving 21,000 people employment, that you are planning 6.1 billion in environmental protection and that you are planning for HL-AG and for the railway infrastructure 8.8 billion schilling. – All of this sums up to proud 40,000 new jobs! Ladies and gentlemen! Do you no longer remember that you have a construction stop in this coalition government under the pressure of an exploding, irresponsible budget deficit? They stopped and deleted construction investments overnight, approved projects were not carried out, and those in operation were halved or shortened. In this way you have made thousands of construction workers unemployed! Now, however, you are applying for a construction, export and technology offensive and will bring some of these unemployed people whose unemployment you are responsible for back to work. Ladies and gentlemen of the Coalition Government! That's not the offensive we're imagining! These are, at best, minimizations of damage, the You have to represent yourself! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] And it's much more surprising when talking about an export offensive. You really have to break this on the tongue: The measures adopted under the so-called Export Plan are to be implemented. This request reads as follows: "The German Federal Government's export offensive is intended to ensure important sectors of activity and create a wide range of new jobs. Framework conditions for export are to be improved, sales and marketing offensives launched as well as the urgently necessary employee qualification are to be considered. ... It is also intended to promote the opening up of international markets at multilateral level...." [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Bla, bla, bla!]] This is your export offensive, ladies and gentlemen! These are the highest voodoo conjurers, these are words of magic, that's not worth the paper on which you have it printed! They're not offensive, they're brain-pins and Fata Morganas! You can't start the export offensive, ladies and gentlemen! If anyone can, then the export-oriented economy. Please provide this framework conditions so that she wants and can do this! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] The next offensive for which you have already decided to take action is the technology offensive. – Under the title "Technology offensive" is in your application: "For the creation of highly qualified future-proof jobs in Austria, the Federal Government has made available a billion schilling (so-called technology billions) in 1997, 1998 and 1999 respectively." Ladies and gentlemen! Please explain to me what an offensive should be! – I admit: You could not have paid for this tiny 1 billion, which our research and development expenditure will continue to be classified in the last place among the OECD countries, if you could not have sold the CA! You probably wouldn't have made them available either, Mr. Minister. But it's not an offensive if you're making a sumptuous billion schilling available! You want to sell this to us under offensive! That's an eye wiper, that's a dizziness. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] It is you, Mr Bartenstein, who comes from such a subject that you should know what an offensive is! 4 billion would make up an offensive, and that would be modest. You would really need 10 or 20 billion! – Go to Bavaria or look at it elsewhere, then you know what offensives are! [[Congratulation of the Abg. Meisinger.]] But at 1 billion schillings, you really can't say that this is an offensive! That's not offensive, you don't create offensives, gentlemen! You're missing the mumm and the power, you're done! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wormitzer.]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I cannot join Mr Gartlehner's compliment. I regret that we did not benefit better from this important day for the Austrian and for the Austrian economy, but above all for those concerned. We have not held a particularly high level debate. But above all, we have not thought about something: What will we do, ladies and gentlemen, when an unemployment rate of 350 000 is reached? – Next year in winter, we will have 350,000 unemployed, and this federal government can do what it wants, this development is not to stop. With all the measures we can take, we will only be able to make a small contribution to the fact that it will not be more than 350 000. Federal Minister! What I'm saying now is that thanks be to God. I'll remind you then! Ladies and gentlemen! What preparations have been made for a life in Austria with unemployment rates in this order? Why don't we also seriously discuss the necessary accompanying measures, which are as follows: Implementing a Swiss model, thinking, rethinking and introducing a basic guarantee so that, if we already have to live with the evil that we all complain, at least its impact on our society, on our democracy and on our living together in this country, we can make it tolerable? Federal Minister Bartenstein! We can not only discuss family support, family financing and the tax system, but we must also accept this issue. We must not close our eyes, drop the roller drawers and say: It's not financeable!
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e10296	I would ask for the final sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e10311	Yes, Mr President, I come to the conclusion. Ladies and gentlemen! In this sense, I urge you, in particular, from the government coalition, not to give your attention to these proposals in advance. Work with it, step closer to things, then you will be able to make a small contribution! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e10345	No one's been reported in the word anymore. That concludes the debate. We shall proceed to the vote on the 23 requests which are now being put to the vote. First of all, we are voting on the motion for a resolution by Mrs Kier and others on the flexibility of working time by means of regulations at the workplace. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of Kier's request to have a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Kier and others on the flexibility of forms of work and the facilitation of access to part-time work. I may request a sign of consent. – The request does not have the necessary majority and is therefore rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kier and Mr Comrades on the establishment of the basis of calculation for the financing of basic security. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this motion for a resolution to give a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Next, we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ollinger and Mr Comrades on the concept of overtime reduction. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Next, we shall vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Vergestnitsch, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), on the motion for a resolution (Doc. Maderthaner and comrades on comprehensive initiatives by the Federal Government to combat unemployment. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this motion for a resolution to give a sign. – I note that the motion for a resolution has been adopted by a majority. (E 42.) We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Mr Prinzhorn and Mr Group on the tax exemption of unscathed profits. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request to give a sign. – I notice: The application shall be rejected by a majority. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Helmut Peterand comrades on the creation of a framework that facilitates the creation of businesses. Here, too, I may ask for a sign in the case of approval. – The request does not have the necessary majority, it is therefore rejected. Next, we shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ollinger and Mr Comrades on social and employment policy at EU level. I ask for a sign of approval. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Ing. Langthaler and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats on job creation through an environmental tax reform. In case of consent, I ask for a sign. – The application remains in the minority and is therefore rejected. The next motion for a resolution is also tabled by Mrs Ing. Langthaler and the creation of jobs through thermal insulation. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to give a sign of approval. – The request does not have the necessary majority and is therefore rejected. [[Calls.]] – With this we have dealt with the chapter thermal insulation. We now come to the motion for a resolution by Mrs Ing. Langthaler and comrades on job creation through forced use of alternative energies for heat and electricity generation. In case of consent, I ask for a sign. – The request does not have the necessary majority and is therefore rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. The main and political group on workers' protection with an eye-to-face view. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who may support this motion for a resolution. Main step in to a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. The same is true of the honourable Member Mag. The main point is the motion for a resolution on the promotion of the reintegration of foreign citizens. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are entitled to this request. Mainly agree to a sign. – The request did not find the majority and was rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Main and comrades on foreign policy. In case of consent, I asked for a sign. – I notice: The application is rejected by a majority. Next, we are voting on Mr Kier's motion for a resolution on the use of energy taxes in order to reduce additional labour costs. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request to give a sign of approval. – The application is largely rejected. We are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ollinger and Mr Comrades on measures to improve apprenticeship training. In the event of consent, I may request a sign. – The request was rejected by a majority of the House. We are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ollinger and Mr Group on new instruments for active labour market policy. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to agree to a sign. – The request has remained in the minority and has been rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Schreiner and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats on the resolution of the Austrian National Bank's pension reserve. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request to give a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Firlinger and comrades on the promotion of employment projects. I may ask for a sign in the case of approval of this request. – The request does not have the necessary majority. He's rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Schreiners and comrades on the prevention of cold progression. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – The request did not find the majority and is therefore rejected. Next, we shall vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Dolinschek and Mr Group on measures to attract teaching. In the event of approval, I would ask for a sign on this matter. – The application remains in the minority. He's rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Povysil and Mr Comrades on the training offensive in health professions for Austrians. In the event of approval, I may ask for a sign. – The application is largely rejected. We are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr. Hazelsteiner and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats on measures to boost the Austrian capital market. In the event of approval of this request, I would ask for a sign. – The request did not find the necessary majority and was rejected. We have thus voted on the requests made during this sitting. The agenda is exhausted. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_1997-02-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00062_d7e10707	I declare that self-employed applications 390/A (E) to 396/A (E) and requests 1974/J to 2015/J have been submitted. The next meeting of the National Council will be held on Wednesday, 26. ==References====External links== It shall be convened in writing. The sitting is closed.
